By MARIA ABI-HABIBAPRIL 3, 2018
NEW DELHI — Nirav Modi brightened Kate Winslet’s earlobes and made Taraji P. Henson’s collarbone glitter.A jeweler to the stars, Mr. Modi attained wealth and fame at home in India in a few short years. He socialized with British royalty and rubbed elbows with Donald Trump Jr. He opened an opulent outlet on Madison Avenue in New York. In January, he met with Narendra Modi, India’s prime minister and no relation, at the annual gathering of the world’s elite in Davos, Switzerland.Today, he is on the run.About a week after Mr. Modi grinned for the cameras with the prime minister, a state-run Indian bank told regulators that it had found nearly $1.8 billion in fraudulent transactions linked to the jeweler’s account. Indian officials now accuse Mr. Modi, his family and business associates of assembling a global empire with nearly $3 billion in money obtained illegally, mostly from government-run banks. He denies wrongdoing.The chase has enraged and captivated India at a time when the public increasingly believes the country’s debt-laden government banks are enriching its flashiest, most corrupt business tycoons. Parliament sessions have deteriorated into screaming matches, with political opponents exchanging accusations of collusion with the jeweler.AdvertisementFinding Mr. Modi has become something of a national pastime. Reporters in New York camped outside a luxury hotel, the JW Marriott Essex House, where they believed Mr. Modi was staying. One who rang the bell outside what they believed to be his room found only a servant and a fluffy white dog.For many Indians, the allegations against Mr. Modi further cement the notion that taxpayer-owned banks are footing the bill for the lavish lifestyles of a rising elite. That idea has particular resonance in a country where stark poverty — India is home to a third of the world’s poorest people — remains dire.AdvertisementBefore Mr. Modi, India watched as Vijay Mallya, an airlines-and-liquor magnate known as the King of Good Times, fled to Britain as banks tried to collect $1.4 billion. Many of the banks left on the hook were state-owned. He has denied wrongdoing.The state-owned Bank of Baroda has drawn news media attention over its business with the three Gupta brothers, who left India in 1993 and built a sprawling corporate empire in South Africa. They have been caught up in a political scandal there that led to the resignation of South Africa’s president, Jacob Zuma.Bank of Baroda denied wrongdoing in a written response to questions, asserting that it acted in good faith and that many of the transactions it handled for the Gupta brothers were received from other banks.In February, the Indian authorities arrested Vikram Kothari, a ballpoint pen magnate, saying he had diverted loans given to his company by seven government-owned lenders. He also denied wrongdoing.The allegations against Mr. Modi have only strengthened people’s wariness of the state banks. Indian officials have publicly accused him of working with tellers at a single branch of one of them, Punjab National Bank, to obtain $1.8 billion from branches of other banks. So far, five Indian banks have been swindled in the scandal, four of them government-owned, the authorities in New Delhi say.Just a decade ago, during the global financial crisis, Indian lenders were held up as a bastion of stability. Today, they are considered more vulnerable than those in other leading emerging markets, mostly because state-controlled lenders dominate the sector, according to the International Monetary Fund.AdvertisementOf the $6.5 billion in fraudulent loans that have hit the industry over the past two years, the most egregious cases were at government-owned banks, according to figures released by Parliament. Executives at those lenders are more likely to be appointed for their political connections than for their talent, financial analysts say.“For every Nirav Modi in this country, there’s 10 more, and they are emboldened when they see the government failing to take action or pursue the right protocols,” said Vineet Dhanda, a lawyer who is urging the Indian government to tighten up the banking sector.Mr. Dhanda questioned how major business figures like Mr. Modi could raise billions from banks without providing collateral, yet the average farmer struggles to get a few hundred dollars for a loan.“The money they are stealing is from the poor people of this country,” he said. “If this money is swindled away, then it comes from the taxpayers to fix the banks.”Mr. Modi’s lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, denies his client defrauded banks and says there is only a misunderstanding over a much smaller loan worth about $40 million. He accused the banks and government authorities of damaging his client’s reputation and the Nirav Modi brand’s value, making it harder for the company to settle its debts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This was a case of civil transaction which the authorities have converted into a criminal one unnecessarily,” Mr. Aggarwal said in an interview.Diamond traders and jewelers have long marveled at Mr. Modi’s rise. Nicknamed NiMo in the press, from the first syllables of his name, Mr. Modi was known for wearing custom-made cuff links with the fish from “Finding Nemo.”Born in Antwerp, Belgium, to a relatively small diamond trading family, Mr. Modi attended the prestigious Wharton School of Business before dropping out at 19 to join the family business in Mumbai.He first rose to international prominence in 2010, when he designed a necklace featuring a 12.29-carat diamond set with smaller pink diamonds. It was auctioned by Christie’s in Hong Kong for $3.56 million, nearly $1 million more than its asking price.AdvertisementThe bidding war landed Mr. Modi on the cover of the Christie’s catalog, the first Indian to be featured so prominently by the auction house. He formed his Nirav Modi brand later that year and announced plans to open 100 stores around the world by 2025.In 2015, Mr. Modi opened his flagship store on Madison Avenue, a few blocks from the luxury giants Cartier, Saks and Dior. Donald Trump Jr. was there, taking a break from his father’s presidential campaign, as were actors and models: Naomi Watts and Coco Rocha posed for photos on the red carpet in front of the Nirav Modi logo. The next year, Mr. Modi designed 100 carats’ worth of diamonds that Ms. Winslet wore to the Oscars.His rapid ascent puzzled some in the diamond industry, who say building a luxury brand takes both time and money.“Using models and actresses that are world-renowned to consumers — that makes a brand seem solid,” said Karma El Khalil, a jeweler based in New York. “But it’s incredibly expensive.”His lifestyle rose with his fame, according to interviews with colleagues and friends and local news reports that tracked his purchases. He bought a Rolls-Royce for family use. He had an aquarium built that covered an entire wall of his office. He bought an apartment in an exclusive, seaside high-rise called Sea Palace that is home to some of Mumbai’s wealthiest people, including one of the founders of the information technology giant Infosys.But the authorities in New Delhi say he projected an image of success built on bank loans and fraudulent letters of understanding, part of a strategy to expand his business in the hope that profits would eventually outstrip debts.“The arms of the law are long,” said Abhishek Dayal, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Investigation, the main government body investigating the case. “We will get them.”Mr. Modi’s flight has shaken diamond traders in Antwerp and Mumbai.Until the allegations surfaced, he seemed to fit well in an international industry that often works based on trust and personal relationships. For example, a trader will often mail a diamond to another and give the other person a window of up to four months to evaluate the gem before expecting payment.AdvertisementMr. Modi quickly won a reputation as someone who could be trusted, say diamond traders. He often paid within days after receiving diamonds.Now traders are wondering whether the industry trusted him too quickly, and what the fallout on the international diamond trade will be. A diamond dealer in Antwerp said he and his colleagues became anxious last month when the Indian government banned its banks from issuing letters of credit to finance trade abroad, making it harder for Indian diamond traders — some of the biggest players in the industry — to buy stones.“Your reputation is based on today,” said Sabyasachi Roy, the executive director of India’s Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council, sponsored by the Ministry of Commerce.“Today you’re great until you’re not. Today you have actresses wearing your designs; tomorrow no one will look at you. But everyone was surprised by his quick rise.”Hari Kumar and Suhasini Raj contributed reporting from New Delhi, and Ayesha Venkataraman from Mumbai, India.A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Jeweler to the Stars  Flees as India Seethes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Rahul BhatiaMr. Bhatia is a journalist. He lives in Mumbai.MUMBAI, India — The Indian government is in thrall of the dazzle and promise of technology, seeing in it a vehicle to overcome the inefficiencies of its humongous bureaucratic apparatus. Shortly before coming to power in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi positioned himself as a digital governance evangelist.A few months into his tenure, the Indian government began using biometric devices to tell on government employees who didn’t turn up for work. The state of Gujarat, which Mr. Modi had ruled for more than a decade, took to using biometrics to red-pen students who skipped school. Mr. Modi has argued that digital payments will check “black money” — the Indian term for unaccounted, often illegally acquired wealth — and other forms of corruption.Under Mr. Modi’s government, Aadhaar, India’s enormous biometric identification system, which was initially promoted as a voluntary program to refine the delivery of public services and curb corruption, is increasingly seen as necessary for public and private services — giving birth in a hospital, enrolling a child in preschool, collecting your college degree, maintaining a telephone connection or a bank account, and collecting a death certificate. The government seems to be in a war of attrition with itscitizens, breaking down their resistance to the biometric identification program.Mr. Modi, who has spoken relentlessly of his dream of a digital India and flaunted the miracle of technology by appearing in public as a three-dimensional hologram in numerous places at the same time, has described data as “real wealth” that would confer “hegemony” on “whoever acquires and controls” it.But alarming gaps in India’s information security infrastructure, government departments and the Unique Identification Authority of India — the federal agency running the Aadhaar project — have exposed the private data of several million Indians on numerous occasions over the last two years.The chasm between India’s digital governance aspirations and its ability to protect that data is visible at the very top of the governance pyramid. In 2015, Mr. Modi offered his millions of followers the “unique opportunity to receive messages and emails directly from the prime minister” by downloading the Narendra Modi mobile app. “No intermediaries, no media, no officials, no red tape,” it promised. The Android app alone was downloaded over five million times.The trust those millions of citizens invested in Mr. Modi’s personal app seems to have been violated. In late March, a French security researcher discovered that the Narendra Modi app shared user data with an American company without the consent of its users. An investigation by The Indian Express newspaper revealed the invasiveness of the Modi app: it asked permission from its users to access their photographs, contacts, location data, cameras and microphones. A day after the revelation, the app’s privacy policy was changed.Around the same time, ZDNet, a technology website, reported that a webpage hosted by Indane, a liquefied petroleum gas company owned by the Indian government, inadvertently exposed the names, bank details and Aadhaar numbers of over half a billion Indians to anyone with the right technical skills.Karan Saini, a New Delhi-based security researcher who found the vulnerability on a late-night bug hunt, realized that he could make thousands of requests with random Aadhaar numbers every minute through the program and extract information each time the database responded with a match.The Unique Identification Authority of India, which runs the Aadhaar project, insisted that its own database had not been breached and said that it was “contemplating legal action” against the publication. The response was in keeping with the agency’s practice of filing court cases and sending legal notices to reporters and security researchers who shine a torch on the ease with which unauthorized people can access the data it collects.Nandan Nilekani, the technology entrepreneur who oversaw the creation of Aadhaar in 2009 under the Congress Party-led government, recently raised the possibility of Indians selling their data for easier credit and better health care. Such idealism lives beside the reality of a society that’s largely digitally illiterate, where consent is not fully understood.Every week brings new revelations about the considerable gaps in India’s digital infrastructure. Compounding the anxieties is the failure of the Indian government agencies to act on these findings when alerted by researchers.ZDNet informed the National Informatics Center, which builds information technology infrastructure for the government. The agency didn’t reply. The publication informed Indane executives as well as the officials overseeing Aadhaar, but they did nothing. According to Mr. Saini, ZDNet also informed the Indian Consulate in New York, but the data remained exposed.Aadhaar officials insist that their primary database is safe and that it hasn’t been breached. They are willfully missing the point. India’s federal Ministry of Rural Development exposed details of nearly 16 million Aadhaar numbers. A database of unorganized workers in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh exposed the details of over 20 million workers.Aadhaar’s database might be secure, but everything else it touches leaks like a sieve. Technology has ended up strengthening a dysfunctional bureaucracy that desires efficiency through data it cannot seem to protect. Worries about data being misused have been met with official denial and fury, but no investigations have been ordered.Technologists describe these issues as teething troubles, bugs that will disappear as systems improve and uncertainty is gradually removed. But these instances raise concerns that the initiatives on technology and governance by the Indian government are removed from the concerns of the citizens and implemented with almost no explanation.Last year, a journalist trying to demonstrate weaknesses within the biometric identification program enrolled once with his real name and then with a fictitious one. His real name was rejected. Ajay Bhushan Pandey, the chief executive officer of the agency overseeing the program, told a gathering that the journalist would have to live “with the fake name forever. You go to your child’s school and say your papa’s name has changed.”India’s government is pushing hard to digitalize the lives of Indian citizens, but it also needs to bear the responsibility for the violations of citizens’ data and trust. Indians are hostage to a government behaving like a tech company, and there is no customer service in sight.Rahul Bhatia (@rahulabhatia) is writing a book about technology in the developing world.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy DAMIEN CAVE and VINDU GOELMARCH 18, 2018
SYDNEY, Australia — Ola built itself into India’s leading ride-hailing company by catering to the particular needs of Indian customers, who often like to settle fares in cash and jump on cheap, three-wheeled auto-rickshaws for short trips.Now Ola is expanding overseas for the first time, to Australia, in a major test of whether India’s new breed of technology start-ups can survive in a developed country.The company began service in the western city of Perth last month. Last week it extended into Sydney. In both cities, Ola is offering passengers free rides and giving drivers a larger portion of the fares, hoping to get more cars on the street and lure more riders to try it.Some drivers said they were already suggesting that riders use Ola to build up a viable competitor to Uber, which has long had the Australian market to itself.Advertisement“Uber doesn’t really have a great reputation for treating people fairly,” said Oliver Ward, 39, a driver for Uber and Ola in Sydney. “It’s good to see some new competition.”Ola’s move into a wealthy developed country like Australia, where fares and customer expectations are much higher than in India, is a calculated bet by the company that it can adjust its model to the needs of global customers.AdvertisementIndia is home to a raft of start-ups in e-commerce, mobile apps and other consumer internet businesses. But few of them have ventured beyond their home market successfully. Zomato, a restaurant review site similar to Yelp of the United States, expanded aggressively overseas a few years ago, only to scale back and focus more on India and a few countries like the United Arab Emirates. Paytm, India’s leading digital-payments company, has targeted its services to Indian immigrants in Canada, primarily as an experiment geared toward learning how to operate in developed countries.For Ola, Australia could be a compelling international opportunity.For starters, the country offers room to grow. Fewer than one in five Australians who regularly buy things online used a ride-hailing service in the past year, according to June survey data analyzed by eMarketer, an American research firm. And the typical fares are much higher than in India, meaning Ola could potentially make more money per ride.“In the ride-sharing market currently, there are no real enemies,” said Satish Meena, a senior forecast analyst with Forrester, a technology research firm. “Everyone is willing to share the pie.”Australian laws also make it generally easy to set up a ride-share business. Taxify, an Estonian company, arrived in December.“We welcome competition because it keeps us focused on delivering the very best product,” said David Rohrsheim, Uber’s general manager for Australia and New Zealand.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Experts say that Uber has another incentive: Australia has tough labor laws that could require the company to treat drivers as employees deserving of retirement and other benefits. If its drivers also drive for other services, Uber could more easily argue that they are free agents instead.AdvertisementOla is mostly trying to win drivers over with a better deal.The company takes only 7.5 percent of drivers’ fares, with plans to increase that figure to 15 percent. Uber collects 20 to 25 percent. Drivers said that with Ola they could make 50 Australian dollars, or $39, an hour compared with only $30 Australian an hour with Uber.“It’s a dramatic difference,” said Cheri Gristwood, an Uber driver in Perth, who was an early adopter of Ola. “I work my butt off, and with Ola I come home with a lot more.”Mr. Rohrsheim said that Uber had added incentives of its own last year, including paid wait time and a “no thanks” button that lets drivers refuse up to three rides in a row.“Uber isn’t Uber without driver partners,” he said, “and our success depends on their success.”Ola’s discounted commission has helped the company sign up 7,000 drivers so far. That is nowhere near the roughly 82,000 who drive for Uber, but more than double what Taxify started with in Sydney in December. Taxify did not respond to requests for comment.Many of the new Ola drivers help spread the word about the company. Cecilia Cornu, an Ola customer in Perth, first heard about the service when she asked an Uber driver about the two cellphones he had. One, he said, was for Ola.“He told me my ride would have been cheaper if I had booked it through Ola, as they were running a promotion with free rides,” she said.“As soon as I got to work,” she added, “I downloaded the Ola app.”Ola has not explicitly marketed itself to drivers or riders of Indian origin, but the company does expect that the awareness of its brand among Indians will help. About 1.9 percent of Australia’s population of 24 million was born in India, according to 2016 census data; many more are the children of Indian immigrants.AdvertisementThe Ola app still signals that connection: India sometimes shows up as the default country when someone in Australia signs up and adds his mobile phone number.Ola’s effort to shift from local to global remains imperfect. Some customers have reported problems with the app continuing to calculate rides after trips have ended. Mr. Ward, one of the Ola drivers in Sydney, said the company’s registration process was less streamlined than Uber’s.Ola’s expansion into Australia may also have a strategic goal beyond higher fares: protection against an unwanted takeover.The Japanese conglomerate SoftBank is Ola’s largest outside shareholder, and one of the largest shareholders in Uber. It has also invested in other ride-hailing companies around the world.SoftBank executives have made it clear that they would like to see Uber’s operations in some developing countries merge with local players to avoid a competitive blood bath, allowing the company to focus more intensively on higher-profit, developed markets.Ola recently changed its articles of incorporation to defend against any large investor from forcing a sale of the company. Bhavish Aggarwal, a founder of Ola and its chief executive, is busy trying to raise money from other investors to reduce SoftBank’s influence over his company’s destiny.Mr. Aggarwal declined several interview requests. “We are very excited about launching Ola in Australia and see immense potential for the ride-sharing ecosystem in a country which embraces new technology and innovation,” he said in a statement.At times, Uber has been a seller. It has left the ride-hailing business in China and Russia, selling its operations in those countries in exchange for stakes in the dominant local competitors.Mr. Meena predicted that Ola and Uber would eventually reach a similar arrangement in India, with the Australian operations of each company possibly added to the mix. Developing a robust Australian business could give Ola a bargaining chip in negotiations.Advertisement“Everyone is looking at capturing market share,” he said, “and then doing a deal with Uber.”Damien Cave reported from Sydney, and Vindu Goel from Mumbai, India. Giovanni Torre contributed reporting from Perth.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing.A version of this article appears in print on March 19, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: On Uber’s Tail in Australia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ISABEL KERSHNERMARCH 28, 2018
TEL AVIV — The Israeli government has hailed Air India’s new nonstop service from New Delhi to Tel Aviv as a historic breakthrough — the Indian carrier is the first commercial airline to take a geopolitical shortcut through Saudi Arabian airspace.But Israel’s national airline, El Al, still has to take the long way and fears that it will suffer serious financial damage from what it views as aerial discrimination.So in a first of its own, El Al petitioned Israel’s Supreme Court on Wednesday, filing suit against the government; the Civil Aviation Authority; Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu; the transportation minister, Yisrael Katz; and Air India.Flying in a straight line cuts more than two hours off the usual flight time, and allows Air India to lower its ticket price. Even though Saudi Arabia granted permission for the route, El Al is asking the Israeli court to prevent Air India from taking the shorter path unless the Israeli carrier receives a similar permit.AdvertisementThe dispute was touched off by Air India’s inaugural flight last week from New Delhi. As is the case with most of its neighbors in the Middle East, Israel does not have formal diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia, and the Saudis have for decades banned jets traveling to or from Israel from crossing their airspace.AdvertisementThe informal web of relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia is usually maintained well below the radar, and the flyover permit granted to Air India is being seen in Israel as an unusually visible sign of improved ties as the old foes’ interests have converged over issues like curbing Iran’s influence in the region.“The Israeli skies are connecting with the Saudi Arabian skies in one direct flight,” Mr. Katz, the transportation minister, said in a statement after greeting the maiden Air India flight on the tarmac in Tel Aviv.Saudi Arabia has not publicly commented on the matter. Mr. Netanyahu has been similarly opaque, avoiding mentioning Saudi Arabia by name in his remarks at the start of the weekly cabinet meeting on Sunday.“Air India flew directly to Israel, on a straight line from India to Tel Aviv,” he said. “The significance is clear to all. This is significant economically, technologically, diplomatically and for tourism.”El Al contends that Air India now has an advantage that violates the principle of fair competition and policies meant to ensure equal opportunities between Israeli airlines and foreign carriers.“The permit that Saudi gave to Air India to fly over its territory to Israel is a global precedent,” Eli Defes, the chairman of El Al’s board, said in an interview last week at the airline’s offices at Ben Gurion Airport. “According to all the international organizations we checked with, there is no similar phenomenon anywhere in the world.”To illustrate the perceived injustice, he added, “It’s as if British Airways were allowed to fly a short route between London and New York while United Airlines or Delta were obligated to fly to London via Africa.”AdvertisementFor years, El Al has been the sole airline operating direct flights to India, flying four times a week between Tel Aviv and Mumbai. El Al planes have to take a circuitous route, flying low along the Red Sea and across the Arabian Sea, circumventing the entire Arabian Peninsula.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The additional flight time requires more fuel and a larger crew, driving up the ticket price, according to Mr. Defes.Air India halted its direct flights to Israel via the longer route years ago, but is now flying the New Delhi-Tel Aviv route three times a week, with a flight time of about 7.5 hours.But Mr. Defes fears that the Air India deal will be the start of a trend and that other airlines will obtain permission to fly over Saudi Arabia en route to Israel. Along with its attractive introductory fare, Air India is offering cheap transfers from New Delhi to Thailand, another destination popular with Israelis.There has been talk of government compensation for El Al, but Mr. Defes said it was impossible to assess the scope of the damage given the possibility that other airlines may get permission to fly over Saudi Arabia.El Al has prepared color-coded maps showing the areas from which it is banned from flying over: The air space over much of North Africa, the Middle East, Pakistan and Indonesia are among the no-go zones, requiring significant detours.El Al’s lawyers say that the deal with Air India violates a binding commitment to ensure fair competition and equal opportunities it made with the Israeli government when it was privatized in 1994, as well as international aviation conventions. The airline is asking for an injunction prohibiting Air India flights to Israel over Saudi Arabia until it is afforded the same privilege.Israeli officials have responded with vague prospects that Israeli carriers may soon be granted permission to fly over Saudi Arabia. Mr. Katz wrote on Twitter last week that he hoped this would happen “in the not so distant future.”In response to the court petition on Wednesday, the Transportation Ministry said in a statement that the permission to fly over Saudi Arabia was “a diplomatic achievement of the first order,” but that it was up to the Israeli government to ensure that El Al was not harmed by the development.AdvertisementMr. Netanyahu said his goal was to introduce shorter, five-hour flights from Tel Aviv to Mumbai, but did not specify if he was referring to flights by El Al or Air India. His office would not elaborate.The Israeli Tourism Ministry has provided Air India with a grant to market its new route, as part of a campaign to encourage Indian tourism in Israel.About 58,000 Indian tourists visited Israel in 2017, according to the Tourism Ministry, up from 34,600 in 2014. “More than 50 million Indians hold passports,” the ministry said.El Al flies about 60,000 Israelis to India per year, about 70 percent of them business travelers. India is also popular with younger Israelis, particularly those who have completed their compulsory army service, but many take cheaper flights via connections in third countries.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Tech We’re Using By                     
 VINDU GOEL
 
MARCH 21, 2018
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Vindu Goel, a technology reporter for The Times who moved last year from San Francisco to Mumbai, India, discussed the tech he’s using.What’s your favorite tech tool for staying on top of your beat? What do you like about it, and what could be better?The most vital tool for me here is WhatsApp, a messaging service owned by Facebook. Although I barely used the app when I worked in San Francisco, every smartphone user in India seems to be on it — more than 200 million people, according to the company.It’s the most reliable way to reach someone. Traditional SMS text messages cost money and are basically all spam or security verifications.So WhatsApp is the main way people communicate — words, links, photos, videos, holiday greetings. Since WhatsApp is linked to your phone, Indians give out their mobile numbers the way Americans give out email addresses.AdvertisementI do wish it were easier to search WhatsApp messages — something I do all the time in Gmail — and it would be helpful to be able to use a single account from multiple phones, as you can do with other services.AdvertisementCellphone service in India is still spotty, so I carry one iPhone and one Android, with SIM cards for India’s three biggest carriers and power banks to recharge them both. If I have to go somewhere in heavy traffic, I often turn one phone into a Wi-Fi hot spot and work on my laptop from the back seat while the driver worries about the road.How do people use tech differently in India compared with the United States? What are the most popular homegrown apps there? Tech in India is mostly mobile — computers are quite rare. And smartphones are almost all Android, with Apple a bit player.Smartphone use has exploded in the past year. A price war started by a new phone carrier, Reliance Jio, in 2016 has given India one of the lowest prices for data in the world. My primary phone plan costs less than $10 a month for unlimited India calls and more data than I ever manage to use.Cheap data has led to a surge in streaming video. YouTube is popular. But Indians also watch local services like Hotstar, a service owned by 21st Century Fox in the United States. It bundles live cricket, Indian television and American cable shows like “Game of Thrones.”Jio offers local TV and many movies through its own apps. Amazon Prime and Netflix operate here, too.Food delivery apps like Swiggy and Zomato are also big, although I don’t think anyone is making any money at it. Delivery is very much a part of Indian culture — you can get virtually anything delivered, from a single cup of hot coffee to furniture that they assemble in your house.AdvertisementMobile payments are another hot area. Local apps like Paytm are battling it out with Google’s Tez, Amazon Pay and a payments feature that’s coming in WhatsApp.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.What are the biggest consequences of people in India getting onto the internet for the first time via their smartphones?I don’t think we really know yet.Most new users know little or no English. So app makers and internet companies like Google are racing to adapt their products to handle different languages. Android phones, for example, offer a choice of keyboards in 33 different Indian languages besides English. Google also says that more than one-quarter of searches in India are done by voice command instead of typing.The combination of smartphones and cheap data has the potential to transform how poorer Indians find a job, socialize, do basic banking, get health care, even pursue an education.One big hurdle, though, is that even a basic Android smartphone starts at about $50, which is still out of reach for a lot of people.What is Mumbai’s high-tech scene like? Mumbai, like New York, is still primarily a hub for finance and trade.In tech, telecom is big — Reliance Jio and Vodafone’s Indian operations are based here. Two huge outsourcing companies, Tata Consultancy Services and Tech Mahindra, also have their headquarters here.Bollywood, India’s film industry, is centered in Mumbai, too. So services like Hotstar, Amazon Prime and Eros Now are here to be close to the studios. There are a few start-ups founded by people who simply like the city, such as Cleartrip, a travel booking site, and Hopscotch, an online retailer of children’s clothing.AdvertisementWith so many major banks here, there is also an emerging scene of so-called fintech companies that are trying to apply technology to disrupt traditional financial services.Tech firms have been pushing for merchants to support digital payments in India. Do you think e-wallets will ever replace cash?Traditional e-wallets, where you store money until you need to spend it, will probably disappear. The government ordered e-wallet companies to get more identification information from customers by Feb. 28. Most customers did not cooperate, which limits their ability to refill their wallets.Still, it’s inevitable that noncash payments will play a bigger role in India’s economy over time. Debit cards are already popular, and the government is heavily promoting a technology called UPI, which instantly transfers money from one bank account to another.I doubt cash will ever disappear, though. Even in the United States, about one-third of all transactions are still cash.Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life?Air purifiers!Like China, India has a big problem with air pollution in its major cities. Unlike China, the government is doing very little to address the problem.In New Delhi, the nation’s capital, the wintertime air is so bad that its chief minister called it a “gas chamber.” In Mumbai, which is on the coast and gets nice ocean breezes, the air tends to be better. But by World Health Organization standards, the level of tiny particles in the air is still unhealthy, especially in the mornings. And sometimes it’s downright toxic.So we run Swiss-made IQAir purifiers for at least part of every day.Our 2-year-old is obsessed with FaceTime on our iPhones. She loves to call her grandparents in New York and carry the phone around the apartment, giving them a prime view of our ceiling as she chatters away.Follow Vindu Goel on Twitter: @vindugoel.A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: India, Where Everything but Clean Air Is Delivered.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MARIA ABI-HABIBMARCH 29, 2018
McLEOD GANJ, India — An original song of thanks to India had been rehearsed, and a stadium in New Delhi had been reserved for a celebratory rally — all a gesture of gratitude from the Dalai Lama and his followers for India’s role in sheltering them after a Chinese crackdown on rebellious Tibetans 60 years ago.Instead, the planned “Thank You India” celebrations, set for this coming weekend, set off apprehension in New Delhi and embarrassment among Tibetans.A directive from India’s foreign secretary urged officials to discard their invitations, and it was blunt in saying the timing of the events coincided with a “sensitive time” for New Delhi’s relations with Beijing. A series of high-level meetings between Indian and Chinese officials are being billed in India as an attempt to smooth over an increasingly tense relationship.Invitations to top officials were withdrawn, and the event was moved from a stadium in the capital to the secluded northern town of McLeod Ganj, home to the Dalai Lama’s temple and the seat of the Tibetan government in exile. A scheduled interfaith prayer in New Delhi was flatly canceled rather than moved, given the lack of other religious representatives in McLeod Ganj.Advertisement“In Delhi, we approached many dignitaries and invited them,” said Sonam Dagpo, a spokesman for Tibet’s government in exile and the chief organizer for the planned events. “But the foreign secretary’s notice says very clearly that Indian officials shouldn’t attend. So why continue? It’s futile.”AdvertisementThe canceled events underline India’s struggle to both court and counterbalance China, an increasingly difficult feat given China’s recent willingness to flex its military growth.India has continued to host the Dalai Lama and his fellow Tibetan Buddhist exiles even though China condemns them as dangerous separatists. But the Indian government has also sought at times to rein in the religious leader at crucial moments in the relationship with China, and this is certainly one of them.India is trying to encourage trade ties and Chinese investments while playing catch-up to modernize its military, worried about China’s rapidly expanding forces and its growing influence all around India in South Asia.China has made deep inroads with New Delhi’s traditional allies and neighbors, building seaports in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, increasing trade and political ties with Nepal, and sending warships to the East Indian Ocean during a state of emergency in the Maldives.“Giving in to China on the Tibetan community in exile is largely symbolic,” said Jonathan Holslag, professor of international politics at the Free University of Brussels. “But it does mark India’s weakening compared to China. China is rapidly modernizing its military presence, and India cannot follow.”When Beijing increased its annual defense budget in March to $175 billion, it dwarfed the $45 billion New Delhi had announced just weeks before. India’s army chief complained that the disparity  “dashed our hopes” of modernization.The coming talks with China cited by the Indian foreign secretary’s directive will be the highest-level meetings since the two countries engaged in a military standoff last year, after China expanded an unpaved road in a contested sliver of territory in the Himalayas.AdvertisementThe dispute was resolved in August, but Indian and Chinese troops threw rocks and chest bumped each other in a clash that some fear could flare up again. India’s leader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, may be particularly concerned about that possibility given that he faces an election next year.Over the next few months, India’s defense and foreign ministers will meet with their Chinese counterparts ahead of a meeting between Mr. Modi and President Xi Jinping in June. The main topics on the agenda are trade and border disputes, according to Western diplomats in New Delhi.Tibet’s government in exile found out about New Delhi’s anxiety over its planned celebrations only when a local newspaper reported that government officials had been ordered to stay away.A spokesman for India’s Ministry of External Affairs, Raveesh Kumar, said his government had not changed its stance on the Dalai Lama, saying, “His Holiness is accorded all freedom to carry out his religious activities in India.”That came to be an issue last year, after the Dalai Lama visited a province in northern India, another territory disputed by China, which had demanded that India prevent the Buddhist leader from visiting.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But generally, analysts say it is clear that India has been more cautious with China about the Dalai Lama and other issues.“This is not appeasement. China’s relative bargaining positions have improved across the board,” said C. Raja Mohan, the director of Carnegie India, a branch of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “The main objective is to manage the relationship while avoiding a confrontation but leaving space for India to progress, catch up and increase its bargaining position.”On the economic front, India’s efforts to keep meeting ambitious growth targets has kept it relying on trade with China. But the country also faces a $51 billion trade deficit with Beijing, leaving New Delhi with less bargaining power.“India’s growing reluctance to engage with the Tibetans in exile is due to its growing economic weakness,” said Mr. Holslag, of the Free University of Brussels.“Modi assumes that Chinese investment will be critical to realize his plans to develop India’s infrastructure and industry, and thus to increase his chance to win the next elections,” he said. “This is really key: Indians want jobs, not a confrontation with China.”Suhasini Raj contributed reporting.Maria Abi-Habib is a South Asia correspondent based in New Delhi. Follow her on Twitter: @abihabib.A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: India Says No Thanks to a Tibetan Tribute.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KAI SCHULTZ and SUHASINI RAJAPRIL 3, 2018
NEW DELHI — The Indian government called the decree a crackdown on fake news. It lasted less than a day.On Monday evening, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting abruptly announced that it would penalize journalists who spread “fake news,” the term popularized by President Trump to disparage what he has regarded as unfair coverage of his 2016 American presidential campaign and first year in office.The term is now widely used around the world by authoritarian politicians and governments to describe reporting that they find objectionable.Members of India’s freewheeling press expressed shock and outrage at the announcement, seeing the hidden hand of Prime Minister Narendra Modi — who enjoys warm relations with Mr. Trump — to quell negative media coverage ahead of India’s general election next year.AdvertisementWithin hours of the reaction, Mr. Modi’s government annulled the announcement without explanation on Tuesday morning. “Press Release regarding Fake News uploaded last evening stands withdrawn,” the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said on its website.AdvertisementThe U-turn was welcomed by free-press advocates who worry about what they see as a global threat in the guise of prohibitions on news deemed by governments to be false. Malaysia’s lower house of Parliament just approved a measure threatening spreaders of “fake news” with prison sentences.But some Indian journalists said the original announcement might have been meant to test the tolerance of news media outlets for more restrictions. They noted that journalists critical of leaders from Mr. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party had been under pressure since the party came to power in 2014.The original announcement said journalists found to have written or broadcast “fake news” would lose their official accreditation.“Make no mistake: this is a breathtaking assault on mainstream media,” Shekhar Gupta, a prominent journalist, wrote on Twitter before the amendment was withdrawn.The penalties in the original announcement did not apply to independent or partisan digital media outlets, some of them regarded in India as major disseminators of fake news. These platforms are not regulated by the two main media regulatory bodies, the Press Council of India or the News Broadcasters Association. Instead, the rules would have been felt primarily by large, established outlets.In its original announcement, since taken offline, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said that guidelines for the accreditation of journalists were being amended to counter “increasing instances of fake news in various mediums.” The statement did not define fake news or provide guidelines about who could lodge complaints against journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The statement said a journalist’s accreditation would be revoked for six months after a first violation, one year after a second violation and permanently after three violations. It also said that once a complaint against a journalist was registered, his or her accreditation would be suspended until a determination had been made.An accreditation is not required in India but is regarded as critical for access to news makers. Accredited journalists in India face fewer security clearances when visiting government offices and are eligible for subsidized train travel, among other benefits.AdvertisementSmriti Irani, who runs the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, had said on Twitter that complaints against journalists would be handled by the Press Council of India and the News Broadcasters Association. She said neither body was controlled by the government.Rajat Sharma, the president of the News Broadcasters Association, said that his group had not been consulted before the announcement on Monday. M. V. Shreyams Kumar, the vice president of the association, called the announcement “ridiculous.”“This whole exercise is to curb the freedom of the press,” Mr. Kumar said.Ms. Irani, after arguing the measure’s merits on Twitter with journalists and opposition figures, was taking a more conciliatory tone by midday Tuesday, inviting journalists to meet with her and provide “suggestions so that together we can fight the menace of ‘fake news’ & uphold ethical journalism.”Raj Kamal Jha, the chief editor of The Indian Express, said, “Of course, fake news pollutes public discourse but whose fake news is it anyway?”“Spin, cheap shot, empty boast, outright lie, innocent mistake, an oversight — who gets to decide what’s fake, what’s not?” he continued. “That’s why the government’s order last night using fake news as an excuse to punish journalists was an assault on the freedom of the press.”The Indian Express reported on Tuesday that at least 13 government ministers, including Ms. Irani, had tweeted a link to an article claiming to have exposed “four major fake news stories.” The article, on a website called The True Picture, accused “sections of the media” of supporting the opposition and trying to portray the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party in a bad light.The Indian Express reported that the website shared a phone number with a company involved in publishing a children’s book written by Mr. Modi. Employees of the company, Bluekraft Digital Foundation, said they did not run the website.Follow Kai Schultz and Suhasini Raj on Twitter: @Kai_Schultz and @suhasiniraj.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Crackdown On Reporters Deteriorates In India.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Kai SchultzNEW DELHI — An Indian publisher came under fire this week for including Hitler in a children’s book about world leaders who have “devoted their lives for the betterment of their country and people.”“Dedicated to the betterment of countries and people? Adolf Hitler? This description would bring tears of joy to the Nazis and their racist neo-Nazi heirs,” Rabbi Abraham Cooper, associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, an international Jewish human rights organization, said in a statement.Published by the Pegasus imprint of India’s B. Jain Publishing Group, the book, called “Leaders” — but listed on the publisher’s website as “Great Leaders” — spotlights 11 leaders “who will inspire you,” according to a product description on the publisher’s website.On the book’s cover, a stony-faced Hitler is featured alongside Barack Obama, Mahatma Gandhi, Nelson Mandela and India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi. Also included on the cover is Myanmar’s civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who has recently come under sharp criticism for refusing to acknowledge atrocities committed by the country’s military against the Rohingya ethnic group.Earlier this week, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, which is based in Los Angeles, called for the publisher to remove “Great Leaders” from circulation and its online store, where it is sold for about $2.“Placing Hitler alongside truly great political and humanitarian leaders is an abomination that is made worse as it targets young people with little or no knowledge of world history and ethics,” Rabbi Cooper said in the statement.Annshu Juneja, a publishing manager at the imprint, said by email that Hitler was featured because, like Barack Obama, Nelson Mandela and Mahatma Gandhi, “his leadership skills and speeches influenced masses.”“We are not talking about his way of conduct or his views or whether he was a good leader or a bad leader but simply portraying how powerful he was as a leader,” he said.The publisher had not previously received any complaints about the book, the email said, including from the Simon Wiesenthal Center.In parts of Asia, atrocities committed in Nazi Germany are poorly understood and Hitler is sometimes glorified as a strong, effective leader.In 2004, reports surfaced of high-school textbooks in the state of Gujarat, which was then led by Mr. Modi, that spoke glowingly of Nazism and fascism.According to The Times of India, in a section called “Ideology of Nazism,” the textbook said Hitler had “lent dignity and prestige to the German government,” “made untiring efforts to make Germany self-reliant” and “instilled the spirit of adventure in the common people.” Only briefly does the book mention the extermination of millions of Jews and others by the end of World War II.Dilip D’Souza, an Indian journalist, wrote in a 2012 editorial that when 25 mostly upper-middle-class students taught by his wife at a private French school in Mumbai were asked to name the historical figure they most admired, nine of them picked Hitler.“ ‘And what about the millions he murdered?’ asked my wife. ‘Oh, yes, that was bad,’ said the kids. ‘But you know what, some of them were traitors.’ ”The statement from the Simon Wiesenthal Center said that “Great Leaders” had been sold this month at the Krithi International Book Fair in Kochi, a city with a long Jewish heritage. The 48-page book was originally published in 2016, according to the publisher’s website, and it was still available for sale online on Saturday. It is unclear who wrote it.Follow Kai Schultz on Twitter: @Kai_Schultz.AdvertisementBy KAI SCHULTZ and SUHASINI RAJMARCH 6, 2018
MADHURA, India — The well-wishers had all gathered even though neither the teenage bride-to-be nor her mother wanted the girl to go through with the wedding. It took a police raid to stop it, and even then it was nearly too late.It is hard to state the age of Deepa Kumari, the betrothed girl, with any certainty. A government identification card lists it at 15. Her father, accused of selling Ms. Kumari for about $300 to the groom, a 31-year-old laborer, insists that she is 17. A local constable put the number at 13.In any case, by dusk on that February evening, a group of plainclothes police officers stormed the village of Madhura in Bihar State. They chased men into fields and detained the bride and groom, already covered in turmeric powder to prepare for the ceremony, for further questioning.Speaking to reporters at the police station later, Ms. Kumari, with downcast eyes, made her position clear: “I will not marry, sir,” she said. “I want to study.”AdvertisementIndia’s child marriage rate is one of the highest in the world, with a long list of social and economic pressures, from poverty to a dearth of education opportunities, propping up the number.AdvertisementBut as awareness has spread about the detriments associated with underage marriages, and as the authorities have responded more diligently, the prevalence has dropped. In some areas, it has done so sharply.Data released by Unicef on Tuesday found that a girl’s risk of marrying before her 18th birthday in South Asia fell by more than a third in the last decade, from nearly 50 percent to about 30 percent, in large part because of progress in India.Child marriage here is finely threaded with other practices, including the exchange of a dowry from the bride’s family to the groom, and sometimes with sex trafficking, making it difficult to tackle any one issue without addressing others. Social workers said there are no easy solutions.“You cannot wave a magic stick,” said Anand Madhab, principle consultant at the Gender Resource Center, an organization that supports women’s empowerment. “It’s a deep-seated problem.”Bihar, a poor, agrarian state in northern India, has one of the highest rates of underage marriages in the country, according to India’s National Family Health Survey. In 2005, 69 percent of surveyed women said they married when they were underage. Ten years later, the number fell to 42.5 percent.Last year, the Bihari government launched its own campaign to crack down. The chief minister, Nitish Kumar, dispatched social workers to villages and cities across the state, and announced that priests who officiate weddings would be required to sign declarations affirming that both parties are of legal age to marry. The legal age for marriage for Indian women is 18 years old. For men, it is 21.With the 2006 Prohibition of Child Marriage Prevention Act, Indian lawmakers criminalized child marriage, imposing a jail sentence of up to two years or a fine for offenders.AdvertisementStill, there is a long way to go. Many child marriages are unreported, and while police have clamped down on the practice in Bihar, more aggressive surveillance could be pushing illegal marriages underground and untraceable.Though India’s numbers are promising, a recent analysis of census data highlighted another disturbing finding. In pockets of India, incidents of child marriage are decreasing in rural areas, but increasing in urban settings.Researchers involved with the study say it is unclear what is causing that phenomenon. One hypothesis is that an uptick in migration from villages to cities could mean that these weddings have simply been redistributed.In order to curb the figures, Mr. Madhab said laws must complement locally generated pressure among neighbors to hold each other accountable. He likened the push to stamp out child marriage with another sweeping initiative, the banning of liquor in Bihar in 2016, which worked because it tapped into “fear psychology,” he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“People consuming the liquor, they are very scared,” he said. “They think they are not doing the right thing, they think they are doing wrong.”But unlike consumption of alcohol, child marriage is socially accepted in parts of India, where there is a belief that marrying daughters off at a young age shields them from unwelcome sexual advances and consolidates families’ status in a community.At a police station near Madhura, Anoj Kumar, the head officer, said that this part of Bihar has evolved. Leaning over the criminal complaint lodged against Suresh Chaudhary, the father of Deepa Kumari, he noted that other villagers were against the union.“Even Deepa’s mother disagreed with the marriage,” he said. “Suresh said he was marrying her off because of poverty.”A few miles away, in Madhura, Mr. Chaudhary told his side of the story through clenched teeth, balling a pink stole with his fist. “Nobody gave any money,” he said. “Society said that we were marrying the girl off by force. Someone from the outside complained.”AdvertisementWhen the police disrupted wedding preparations, on Feb. 5, Mr. Chaudhary avoided arrest by sprinting into a nearby cornfield and waiting out the night. He remained in hiding for two weeks.Pressed about his daughter’s age, Mr. Chaudhary said he shaved off two years on government documents to give her an advantage in school. As for Ms. Kumari’s police statement that he tried to marry her against her will, Mr. Chaudhary posed a rhetorical question: “Now, she is scared of the police. How can she say she wants to get married?”Amused with the scrum that had formed around Mr. Chaudhary, a man in a white dhoti spoke up in English from the back of the crowd, announcing himself as Kailash Mishra, the landowner who employed the girl’s father in his fields.Mr. Mishra understood that Mr. Chaudhary was technically a man on the run. But he credited him with being a “very good guy, very gentle guy” who happened to be caught doing something virtually everybody else in the village was guilty of.“The parents are scared,” he said. “They are fearing that if a daughter grows up, she’ll meet some boys on her own.”There was one part of the police investigation that Mr. Mishra said he could not dispute. As night fell on Madhura, Mr. Chaudhary sounded a halfhearted call for Ms. Kumari to make an appearance. When no one came forward, Mr. Mishra cracked a smile.“She must be hiding,” he said. “She didn’t want the marriage. She’s happy. What was supposed to happen has not happened.”A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: India Reduces Marriages Of Children.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By VINDU GOEL, HARI KUMAR and SHEERA FRENKELMARCH 8, 2018
MUMBAI — In many countries, Facebook is contending with a darkening reputation as a vehicle for  disinformation and false news. The most recent example: Sri Lanka.This week, the island country sought to block access to the social network, as well as two other platforms that Facebook owns, WhatsApp and Instagram, in an attempt to stem mob violence directed at its Muslim minority. Citing inflammatory posts on Facebook and WhatsApp, the Sri Lankan government ordered internet providers and mobile phone carriers on Wednesday to temporarily block the services along with Viber, another messaging app.“These platforms are banned because they were spreading hate speeches and amplifying them,” Harindra B. Dassanayake, a government spokesman, said in a phone interview on Thursday. Sri Lanka’s government has also imposed a nationwide state of emergency after violence broke out Sunday in one of the island’s central cities, where dozens of Muslim businesses, houses and at least one mosque were attacked. At least one person was killed.Sri Lanka is the latest country to grapple with hate speech being magnified on Facebook, especially in parts of the world that have only recently come online. As use of the social media platform has ballooned in recent years, so have cases of extremist fringe groups using Facebook’s reach to magnify their messages.AdvertisementIn Myanmar, where Facebook is so dominant that it is often confused for the internet itself, the social network has been blamed for allowing hate speech to spread, widening longstanding ethnic divisions and stoking violence against the Rohingya ethnic group. In the Philippines, Facebook has been used to spread pro-government propaganda.AdvertisementInternet watchdog groups have long warned that Facebook was being used to distribute hate speech about ethnic minorities in Sri Lanka. Freedom House, a Washington-based nonprofit that advocates for free speech and democracy, said in a recent report that “hate speech against minorities continues to foment on various social media platforms, particularly Facebook.” The report said online campaigns targeting Muslims and other minority groups in Sri Lanka had been ongoing since 2013 and had recently increased.Sri Lankan officials this week blamed Sri Lanka’s Buddhist majority, as well as Muslims, for spreading false information on the social networks.“Some attacks that have actually not taken place are being reported. It spreads that we are being attacked and we have to respond,” said Mr. Dassanayake. In some cases, people were also sharing information on how to make simple bombs, he said.On Thursday, the violence continued, according to news reports. Although Facebook was blocked, WhatsApp was functioning sporadically.On Twitter, two of the country’s legendary cricket players, Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardena, tried to defuse tensions.“I strongly condemn the recent acts of violence & everyone involved must be brought to justice regardless of race/ religion or ethnicity,” Mr. Jayawardena tweeted on Wednesday.
            I strongly condemn the recent acts of violence & everyone involved must be brought to justice regardless of race/ religion or ethnicity. I grew up in a civil war which lasted 25 years and don’t want the next generation to go through that.        Sri Lanka is still recovering from a long civil war waged by Tamil separatists. The conflict ended in 2009 after the military crushed the rebels, and hard feelings remain.AdvertisementFacebook said Thursday that it has clear rules against hate speech and incitement to violence. “We are responding to the situation in Sri Lanka and are in contact with the government and nongovernmental organizations to support efforts to identify and remove such content,” the company said in a statement.Mr. Dassanayake confirmed that Facebook was cooperating with the Sri Lankan government. He said that at a meeting in Colombo, the capital, on Thursday morning, the government raised more than 100 items with the company.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Once we come to an agreement on these, and once the situation is under control, Facebook will be live again,” he said. It was not immediately clear what the items entailed.Sri Lanka is hardly the only country to resort to extreme measures like a social media shutdown.Last year, India blocked 22 social networking services — including Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and YouTube — for one month in the disputed territory of Jammu and Kashmir in a bid to curb street protests there. Mobile internet service is also frequently blocked in Kashmir, which borders Pakistan and has gone through spasms of violence for decades.Turkey has also repeatedly shut down Twitter and YouTube for allowing content opposed by the government of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the country’s president.Vindu Goel reported from Mumbai, India; Hari Kumar from New Delhi; and Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco.Follow Vindu Goel, Hari Kumar and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @vindugoel and @HariNYT and @sheerafA version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Sri Lanka Blocks Facebook in Effort to Stem Violence.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARIA ABI-HABIB and HARI KUMARMARCH 10, 2018
MEERUT, India — The vandals attacked a statue of Gandhi in the southern state of Kerala, breaking its wire-rimmed eyeglasses.They targeted a monument to Lenin, using a hydraulic jackhammer to destroy the sculpture in the northeastern state of Tripura.They shattered a statue of a revered figure among Dalits, lower-caste Indians, leaving it in pieces in Meerut, about 50 miles north of New Delhi.The attacks were part of a wave of vandalism that has unleashed accusations and recriminations and sent political tensions boiling over as, one by one, at least six monuments have been vandalized since Monday.AdvertisementIndian opposition parties attribute the attacks to supporters of the governing Bharatiya Janata Party, emboldened after a landslide victory in state elections in the country’s northeast last weekend.AdvertisementThe opposition parties say the backers of B.J.P. and its allies foster a climate of intolerance and target other Hindus who oppose them, as well as religious minorities such as Muslims.But the B.J.P., which says the party is inclusive, denied its supporters were behind the attacks and dismissed the accusations as part of a political smear campaign. It noted that someone had taken a hammer to a bust of its own founder.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who heads the B.J.P.-led government, issued a strong condemnation on Wednesday of the vandalism, promising swift retribution against the vandals, no matter their affiliation.But the vandalism appeared to be aimed mostly at figures who are important to Dalits, whom some B.J.P. supporters disdain. Discrimination, although forbidden by law, is widespread in India’s stratified society.On Wednesday morning, district officials in Meerut discovered a statue of B.R. Ambedkar in pieces. The Dalits revere Mr. Ambedkar for enshrining their rights in the Indian Constitution.Officials, hoping to avert anger from the local Dalits, moved within hours to replace the statue, erecting a new one so hastily that most of the fingernails chiseled into the hand clutching India’s Constitution were missing. The ears were rendered as blocklike ovals on either side of the head.“He’s like our god,” said Kapil Kumar, 25, who helped replace the statue. “What we have today is because of him. Whatever respect and chances in life we have, is because of him.”The violence began in the town of Belonia in Tripura State, after the B.J.P. swept local elections, ending more than two decades of Communist control. The Tripura branch of the Communist Party of India says B.J.P. supporters had celebrated their victory by ransacking and burning the party’s offices.AdvertisementThen, on Monday, a crowd chanting B.J.P. slogans surrounded a statue of Lenin in Belonia. Using a construction vehicle with a hydraulic jackhammer, they destroyed the monument — an episode captured on a cellphone camera and shared widely.“Victory to mother India,” protesters can be heard chanting on the video.Victor Shome, the media officer for B.J.P. in Tripura, said the Communists had destroyed the statue. “We are a responsible party,” Mr. Shome said on Friday. “With the help of the local administration, we are looking seriously into this incident to see how it happened.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Communists claim otherwise. “The statue’s destruction was symbolic of the victory of the right over the left,” said Tapas Datta, the secretary for the local Communist Party branch in Belonia.Belonia’s police say B.J.P. celebrations got out of hand but did not explicitly blame the party.“It seemed some criminal elements took over a bulldozer, parked on the side of the street,” said Manchak Ipper, the superintendent of the police in the south Tripura district, which includes Belonia.“They forced the driver to bring down the statue,” Mr. Ipper said by telephone. “I would say it was overenthusiasm.”But the vandalism spread across India.On Wednesday, residents of Kolkata found the damaged bust of the B.J.P. founder, Syama Prasad Mookerjee, a hammer taken to the eyes and the face blackened with paint.On Thursday, the glasses on the giant statue of Gandhi in Kerala were broken. Mr. Gandhi was assassinated in 1948 by a member of the far-right Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, which was outlawed after the assassination for a period but is active today and allied with the B.J.P.In Meerut on Friday, the Dalits were seething, blaming upper-caste Tyagis for defacing Mr. Ambedkar’s statue. The Tyagis are jealous and angry, they say, about the Dalits’ progression. Mr. Ambedkar was a founding father of postcolonial India and helped elevate Dalits socially, economically and politically, moving the community away from their more commonly known moniker, “the untouchables.”AdvertisementDalit groups in Meerut are promising to replace the statue with an even bigger one, double the height of the current rendering.But several villagers from the Tyagis caste have accused the Dalits of destroying the statue themselves in order to rally their voters in coming by-elections in Uttar Pradesh, which includes Meerut.Mr. Kumar expects the tensions to worsen.“In the future, this won’t calm down. Tensions will go up. The Tyagis try to suppress us. They don’t like our progress. They don’t like our politics,” Mr. Kumar said. “To the Tyagis, we are all still ‘untouchables.’ ”The opposition parties, meanwhile, say that the proof of B.J.P.’s culpability lies in the calls on Tuesday from the party’s leader, H. Raja, for supporters to destroy a statue of an activist admired by lower castes, Periyar Ramasamy, in the southern state of Tamil Nadu.Hours later, the statue was defaced.Mr. Raja said the call to action — published on his Facebook page — had been an administrator’s error, and the post has been deleted.Suhasini Raj contributed reporting from New Delhi.A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Political Tensions Boil Over in India as Vandals Take Jackhammers to Statues.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 5:14 A.M. E.D.T.
GOLD COAST, Australia —  An India boxing team doctor was found by a Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) Court to have breached the event's "No Needle Policy" by failing to store syringes properly in the run-up to the quadrennial showpiece in Australia.The needles, which are banned without specific medical exemptions as part of the fight against doping, were discovered in a plastic bottle over the weekend.The doctor, Amol Patil, had administered a Vitamin B complex injection to an unwell boxer and left needles in the room in contravention of CGF rules, the authority said in a statement on Tuesday."The Federation Court found that there was a breach of Paragraphs I and II of the No Needle Policy in that the Doctor left needles in the room while he went to the Polyclinic to obtain sharp bins for the disposal of the needles," it said.Advertisement"Under the No Needle Policy, needles are required to be stored in a central secured location, access to which is restricted to authorised medical personnel of the CGA (Commonwealth Games Association) delegation.Advertisement"The needles in question were not disposed of until he had made two trips to the Polyclinic."The Court added that the doctor had failed to provide a mandatory declaration form for the needles but had provided "information substantially similar" to what was required.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."In the circumstances, the Federation Court's decision is that CGF should issue a strong written reprimand to the Doctor for the breaches," the statement added."A copy of the letter of reprimand should be served on the Chef de Mission of the Indian Team, who should be advised to ensure that no further infractions of CGF Policies occur by any member of the Indian Team."The matter was not defined as an anti-doping rule violation, the CGF said on Monday.India's boxing high performance director Santiago Nieva told local media on Monday that one of his athletes felt ill and received a "vitamin substance" from a doctor.The 21st Commonwealth Games for mostly former British colonies get underway at Gold Coast on Wednesday and run to April 15.(Editing by John O'Brien)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:54 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Toyota Motor Corp and Suzuki Motor Corp agreed on Thursday to produce cars for each other in India as Toyota aims to increase its market share in the world's fifth-largest passenger car market.The agreement follows an R&D tie-up announced by the two Japanese automakers a year ago, and will see Toyota, one of the world's biggest automakers, secure production from its much smaller rival, which dominates India with its line-up of affordable compact cars.Suzuki will supply gasoline and mild-gasoline hybrid versions of its Baleno hatchback, along with the Vitara Brezza compact SUV to Toyota while the latter will produce gasoline and gasoline-hybrid Corolla sedans for Suzuki, the automakers said.Analysts said the arrangement would help Toyota expand its presence in India, where it has struggled to grow sales due to lean demand for its lower-cost models.Advertisement"India is a big blemish on Toyota's otherwise strong track record for breaking into emerging markets," said Janet Lewis, head of Asia transportation research at Macquarie Securities.Advertisement"By selling rebadged and slightly changed Balenos and Vitaras, Toyota can bolster its distribution network and move more towards expanding its market share."Manufacturing will begin by mid-2019. Under the deal, vehicles made by Suzuki will be rebranded and renamed as Toyota cars, while the Toyota vehicles will sport the Suzuki badge.A Toyota spokeswoman declined to give details on production figures, while the Nikkei business daily reported that Toyota would supply around 10,000 vehicles to Suzuki, while Suzuki would produce up to 50,000 units annually for Toyota.The deepening partnership between the two automakers will enable Suzuki to tap into Toyota's R&D firepower to develop lower-emission vehicles and self-driving cars - areas which Suzuki has admitted it is struggling to keep up with.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The two companies plan to introduce electric cars in India around 2020.Suzuki has dominated the Indian automobile market through a majority stake in Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, the country's largest automaker, which sold roughly 1.6 million vehicles last year, accounting for every other car sold in the country. Producing 50,000 vehicles for Toyota would represent just a sliver of what Suzuki sold in India in 2017.Toyota lags far behind with a roughly 5 percent market share. An additional 50,000 units could push Toyota's annual sales above those of Honda Motor and Tata Motors, but it will still lag far behind the top three manufacturers - Suzuki, Hyundai Motor Co and Mahindra & Mahindra.Last year, Toyota sold roughly 140,000 cars in India, leaving its two plants in the country to operate at about half their capacity of manufacturing more than 300,000 vehicles a year.Toyota has produced cars specifically for the Indian market for 20 years, but sales have been dented by poor demand of its last two no-frills models made specifically for India, the Etios sedan and the Liva hatchback, which were criticised for compromising on quality and finish to keep costs low.AdvertisementThe supply from Suzuki would alleviate pressure on Toyota to develop its own low-cost models for the country under its Daihatsu compact car brand, which has made limited progress in developing affordable, appealing models for emerging markets.In the past, Toyota had looked to Daihatsu for help to develop affordable, competitive cars in India. But its engineers and parts purchasing managers have told Reuters that establishing supply chains from scratch which can compete with Suzuki's would be highly time-consuming.(Editing by Sherry Jacob-Phillips and Jacqueline Wong)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 9:59 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  India said on Tuesday it rejected a proposal from Google to roll out its Street View service, which shows panoramic images of roads and other sites.Junior home minister Hansraj Ahir did not give a reason for the decision - though Indian media reported in October that the defense ministry had raised security concerns.Google first asked the government if it could roll out the service in India through its Google Maps and Google Earth apps in 2015.(Reporting by Malini Menon; Editing by Andrew Heavens)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 10:56 A.M. E.D.T.
MEXICO CITY —  The Mexico economy ministry said on Tuesday it has formally imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of carbon steel pipe from South Korea, Spain, India and the Ukraine after completing an investigation into "unfair" trade practices.The investigation came at the request of a company and covered an analysis of the period from April 2013 to March 2016, the ministry said in a statement in the government's official gazette.Mexico has imposed duties in recent years on steel products from several countries after local steelmakers announced cuts in thousands of jobs in 2015 and cancelled investments.Recently, Mexico's economy ministry imposed anti-dumping duties in March on imports of carbon steel pipe from China.(Reporting by Veronica Gomez; Writing by Anthony Esposito; Editing by Bernadette Baum)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 4:53 P.M. E.D.T.
AUGUSTA, Ga. —  Vandini Sharma of Chandigarh, India, is the 16-year-old sister of Shubhankar Sharma, who makes his debut at the Masters this week. Her short stories have won literary awards. She has agreed to write a first-person account of her experience at the Masters for The Associated Press.___When reporters and all the new people who've recently entered our world ask my brother what it felt like to make the Masters at 21, Shubhankar gently shrugged, and said it wasn't completely unexpected. After years of hard work and the magical last four months that have flown by, the sun is beginning to dawn on our journey's horizons.My first view of the Masters popped up like a jack-in the-box. I felt struck out of the blue. This was the first golf tournament I'd known as a toddler and memorized with care.Its reputation was fortified by years of sleepless memories. My father and brother would sit rooted for hours, exhilarated and enthralled, before the blaring midnight TV screen. The Masters symbol was gradually emblazoned upon my mind; the classic soundtrack now hums through my dream world of hazy childhood memories.AdvertisementThe first time it really sunk in that Bhai, (brother in Hindi, as I address Shubhankar) would play the Masters came well after my father first shared the news.AdvertisementAnd it involved a bit of mischief.As little sisters do, I pickpocketed Bhai's phone on the final day of the Indian Open as I was asked to take care of it. Then later, sneaking into a quiet corner with my back against the wall, I had a go at cracking the iPhone's password. The first thing that glowed to life on screen when I touched it was the wallpaper. There was an invitation that began, "The Board of Directors cordially invites ...'.In that moment, I could imagine Shubhankar opening the email and taking a screenshot to pin up, and the sudden feelings of pride and exhilaration of his whole journey washed over me. With the whirl of tournament weeks and crazy time zones, we'd never got to talk about the moment he knew it was happening.And this reflected everything Bhai felt.Not to be outdone by fiendishly modern methods, though, the Masters officials sent an old-style parcel post weeks later. I picked it up coming home from school and the moment I read the words, "Augusta, Georgia," my mother and I snapped it open. A neat stack of soft parchment letters inscribed in green ink slipped out — addressed to none other than Mr. Shubhankar Sharma residing in Sector 12 Panchkula, Chandigarh.A memory was pulling itself loose in my mind, of being 6 years old and stepping into the shower to discover the mirror fogged up with water vapor. The previous 12-year-old occupant, my Bhai, had squiggled in cursive letters, "The Masters," above a trophy titled "Shubhankar."The first thing I did was to spread out the letters from Augusta on our sofa, photograph them and send him a ceremonial video, prim, with a thick British accent. You could imagine the Harry Potter vibes of a first Hogwartsian letter. Our spiritually devoted mother then placed these precious cards in the home's temple, and blessed them.This homely celebration was humbly sweet, but it did little to prepare me for the actual press conference I'd attend at Augusta National on Tuesday. It was hosted in a vintage hall with a small set of senior journalists and the solemn gaze of great men hanging in oil portraits on the walls.No matter how aware one is of the monotonously repetitive way sportsmen tend to drone on, a blinding haze of gleeful affection tends to take over when it's your own brother at the mic.Advertisement"What does it feel like to be now known as the future of Indian golf?" he was asked.In that moment a spotlight I hadn't imagined lit in my mind.Later on, Bhai described the kids playing back home and our small Indian golfing community. These were all the people I was familiar with, in my 16 years of following him around fairways and greens.Although Bhai accepts the pressure with Zen-like calm, I knew the truth — the hopes of 1.3 billion people were riding the currents of history once more.Everyone we've ever known would be looking on, as only the fourth Indian in history sets foot on Augusta National's majestic grounds.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It's moments like these I'm trying to begin to get used to that make my chest swell like a helium balloon.Something of a merry tussle happens in my mind — between the goofy big brother I've known forever and the golfing prodigy, who was beginning on the path of legend.This week I've also been determined to explore my privilege of being here.The overwhelming maiden impression I had in the past 36 hours of the Masters was of old-school grandeur.There was the famous oak tree, the cheerful staff and painted signs, plus ice-cold lemonade cups. A general whiff of elegance lingers everywhere you go.I've sat on oak benches ten times my age. I have pretended to calmly hover as Tiger Woods walked by ten feet away. The American people, though, seemed as freewheeling, chilled and casually friendly as no others I've ever observed.AdvertisementI also lucked out to get into the snowy white clubhouse, where the portraits of all past champions beamed down upon me.This gifted me a profound moment of thinking about the significance of legends. In time, today's champions would become history as well, and the game of golf would evolve on, rewarding the worthy and raising new heroes.Seeing the bushing, poplin-skirted women captured around Jack Nicklaus in a portrait made it easier to imagine us modern girls being photographed for the memory of new generations.It all seems surreal.In writing this piece, I've attempted to remember any conversations with my brother on the Masters. It is a piece of work actually, in light of Bhai's unwavering ambition to be as silly and non-serious as possible off the course. Thus naturally, I found something goofy to round off.In late autumn three years ago, my brother was 18 and chatting about his favorite player's Masters performance as we walked down the pot-holed neighborhood roads, hand-in-hand."When I get to the PGA I'm going full Rocky mode. Just like go underground for six months and get ripped. Grow out my hair," he said.I laughed. "Your face will be hairy too, Bhai. Like a mountain savage.""Oh yeah. They won't be able to recognize me," Bhai shrugged with a bit of mock attitude. "I'd be silent and talking to no friends. Just playing m'game and winnin'.""Really, win your first Masters?""You'll see Vanni," he'd said. "I'm going to get us there one day."___Follow Vandini Sharma on Twitter at www.twitter.com/VandiniWriter . Her work can be found at www.medium.com/vandini .Advertisement___For more AP golf coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/apf-GolfWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 11:18 A.M. E.D.T.
SRINAGAR, India —  Massive anti-India protests erupted in several parts of the Indian-controlled portion of Kashmir on Sunday amid fierce fighting between rebels and government forces that left at least 12 militants and three army soldiers dead, officials said.At least four civilians were killed and dozens injured in the latest round of anti-India protests, which broke out after Indian troops launched counterinsurgency operations targeting mainly the southern parts of disputed Kashmir, where new-age rebels have revived militancy and challenged New Delhi's rule with guns and effective use of social media.In recent years, Kashmiris, mainly youths, have displayed open solidarity with anti-India rebels and sought to protect them by engaging troops in street clashes during military operations against the militants. The protests have persisted despite the Indian army chief warning recently that tough action would be taken against stone throwers during counterinsurgency operations.Thousands of Kashmiris hit the streets on Sunday, chanting anti-India slogans and demanding an end to Indian rule over Kashmir as troops launched anti-rebel operations in three southern villages.AdvertisementBy the time, authorities handed over the bodies of some of the slain rebels to their families, tens of thousands had gathered to attend their funerals while shouting slogans like "Go India, go back" and "We want freedom."AdvertisementThe gunbattles — the deadliest this year in Kashmir — began overnight after government forces raided three southern villages following a tip that rebels were hiding there, police said.They said that after the government forces came under fire, the militants tried to escape from a security cordon while firing their guns and grenades but were killed in the ensuing fighting.At least 11 militants, including some commanders, were killed in two separate gunbattles in the Shopian area, while one rebel was killed and another captured in Anantnag, said top police officer S.P. Vaid.Three soldiers were killed and at least six police and soldiers were wounded, Vaid said.While eight of the dead militants were identified as local cadres of Kashmir's largest rebel group, Hizbul Mujahideen, troops were still clearing off the rubble of a destroyed house at a third gunbattle site where bodies of three militants were lying, Vaid said.Local residents said soldiers blasted several civilian homes with explosives while fighting the militants.The Indian army's chief in Kashmir, Lt. Gen. A.K. Bhatt, warned the militants to give up their arms or they would be "neutralized.""Anybody who uses weapons (against the state) will be dealt with in the same manner we dealt with the terrorists today," Bhatt told reporters.AdvertisementTop separatist leader Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said Sunday's violence was "more havoc for Kashmiris, who are at the receiving end of execution and repression.""Kashmiris will continue to die or be forced to pick up arms for resistance as long as India addresses the political and humanitarian problem of Kashmir through a military approach and through force," he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.No rebel group fighting against Indian rule immediately issued any statement about Sunday's fighting.As the fighting raged, anti-India protests erupted in several villages in southern Kashmir.Many protesters also tried to march to the gunbattle sites to help the trapped militants escape, leading to clashes between rock-throwing residents and government forces who fired live ammunition, shotgun pellets and tear gas.According to hospital officials and police, four civilians were killed and dozens injured, some hit in their eyes by pellets.Authorities stopped train services and cut cellphone internet services in the most restive towns, and reduced connection speeds in other parts of the Kashmir Valley, a common government practice aimed to calm tensions and prevent anti-India demonstrations from being organized. They also ordered curfews in some southern areas.Officials ordered all schools and colleges closed on Monday to stop anti-India protests by the students.Several protests and clashes also erupted in Srinagar and other parts of the disputed region.Separatist leaders who challenge India's sovereignty over Kashmir have called for a shutdown on Monday against the killings.Nuclear-armed India and Pakistan each administer part of Kashmir, but both claim it in its entirety.Pakistan condemned Sunday's violence and expressed solidarity with Kashmiris.Advertisement"This mindless killing spree exposes, yet again, the ugly, inhuman face of the state-terrorism that India has been perpetrating against the Kashmiris for decades," Pakistan's Foreign Ministry said in a statement.Anti-India sentiment runs deep in Kashmir, which in recent years has seen renewed rebel attacks and repeated public protests against Indian rule.Rebels have been fighting Indian rule since 1989, demanding Kashmir be made part of Pakistan or become an independent country. India accuses Pakistan of arming and training the rebels, a charge Pakistan denies.Most Kashmiris support the rebels' cause against Indian rule while also participating in civilian street protests against Indian control.Nearly 70,000 people have been killed in the uprising and the ensuing Indian military crackdown.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 9:02 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday ordered the withdrawal of rules punishing journalists held responsible for distributing "fake news", giving no reason for the change, less than 24 hours after the original announcement.The move followed an outcry by journalists and opposition politicians that the rules represented an attack on the freedom of the press and an effort by Modi's government to rein in free speech ahead of a general election due by next year.Late on Monday, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry had said the government would cancel its accreditation of journalists who peddled "fake news".After Modi's intervention, the ministry announced the withdrawal in a one-line statement.Journalists said they welcomed the withdrawal but could not rule out the possibility that it was a "trial balloon" to test the waters for putting more restrictions on the press.Advertisement"A government fiat restraining the fourth pillar of our democracy is not the solution," a statement issued by the Press Club said.AdvertisementCo-opted by U.S. President Donald Trump, the term "fake news" has quickly become part of the standard repertoire of leaders in authoritarian countries to describe media reports and organisations critical of them.Welcoming the change of heart, media groups in India nevertheless cautioned the government against changing its mind.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The government has no mandate to control the press," Gautam Lahiri, president of the Press Club of India, told journalists.The events in India followed Malaysia's approval this week of a law carrying jail terms of up to six years for spreading "fake news".Other countries in Southeast Asia, including Singapore and the Philippines, are considering how to tackle "fake news" but human rights activists fear laws against it could be used to stifle free speech.India slipped three places last year to rank 136 among 180 countries rated in the world press freedom index of the watchdog Reporters Without Borders.The non-profit body said Hindu nationalists, on the rise since Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party swept to power in 2014, were "trying to purge all manifestations of anti-national thought".(Reporting by Manoj Kumar; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan and Nick Macfie)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:56 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  Ten people were killed and two were injured when a four-storey hotel collapsed in a crowded part of the central Indian city of Indore late on Saturday, a local police official said.Rescue operations were complete and no other casualties were likely, assistant sub-inspector Ramesh Kirade told Reuters by telephone.While the building was old, the reason for its collapse was not immediately known, Kirade said.According to local news reports, the building collapsed after a heavy vehicle rammed into it.Building collapses are common in India, where unscrupulous builders and officials often dodge regulations or overlook the need to renovate old structures.In August, a 117-year-old building collapsed in the financial hub of Mumbai killing at least 22 people.(Reporting by Aditi Shah; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 11:59 A.M. E.D.T.
DHARAMSALA, INDIA —  The Dalai Lama called on his people to remain united as the Tibetan community gathered on Saturday in a small hill town to mark 60 years of political asylum in India - although just one federal minister appeared at the event.The "Thank You India" event had been scheduled for India's capital, New Delhi, but was shifted to Dharamsala, a small town in the country's north where Tibetans run a government in exile, as India tries to avoid a confrontation with China, which views the Dalai Lama as a dangerous separatist.Officially, New Delhi says its policy toward the Dalai Lama remains the same, and the Tibetan government in exile says it moved the event to Dharamsala out of respect for India's foreign policy needs. India's culture minister was the only minister present at the event."Today we are celebrating 60 years in exile and we are confident, and we can see how our future shapes up," the Dalai Lama said at the event.AdvertisementHe emphasized the "strong bond between India and Tibet", saying the two shared a "deep connection of culture and literature".AdvertisementChina took control of Tibet in 1950 in what it called a "peaceful liberation". In March 1959, the Dalai Lama, then 23 years old, fled to India along with his followers.Then-Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru welcomed the monk and allowed him to make Dharamsala his seat. But the ties have weakened as India tries to improve relations with China and avoid a standoff such as a 73-day military face-off along a stretch of their disputed border last year."From Nehru to Modi, we have followed a one-China policy," Ram Madhav, the general secretary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party said. The links between India and Tibet were "very little political but more spiritual, religious and cultural," he added.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Earlier this month, India issued an unprecedented ban on Tibetans holding a rally with the Dalai Lama in New Delhi to mark the 60th anniversary of the start of a failed uprising against Chinese rule.The Dalai Lama also canceled a visit to the Indian border state of Sikkim this week, hosted by authorities there, officials say, lest it offended China.That is in contrast to the Dalai Lama's free movement within India, including the north-eastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, which China claims as its own.Lobsang Sangay, the head of the Tibetan government in exile, was critical of China's Tibet policy at Saturday's event."It's been 60 years since China's illegal invasion and occupation of Tibet, 60 years of destruction of Tibetan civilization, Tibetan culture and Tibetan identity," Sangay said, thanking India for its support.(Reporting by Abhishek Madhukar in Dharamsala, writing by Sankalp Phartiyal, editing by Larry King)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 4:23 A.M. E.D.T.
ROSEVILLE, Calif. —  Investigators are working around the clock as they struggle to determine why a man with no apparent ties to terrorism drove a flaming minivan full of propane tanks and gasoline cans through the main gate of a major Northern California Air Force Base this week.Hafiz Kazi, 51, died in the Kia minivan Wednesday night after veering through the gate at Travis Air Force Base and crashing, FBI agent Sean Ragan said Friday. Kazi had no known links to terrorism, did not leave behind a manifesto or any threats or explanation, and a video found on a cellphone provided no clue."Why did this individual end up at the front gate of Travis Air Base on fire and now deceased? We don't have the answers to that," Ragan said. "We've got a significant amount of investigators assigned to it night and day since this occurred.... They will continue at it until we get those answers."Investigators know of no one else associated with the incident nor any threats to air base or the community.AdvertisementAir Force gate personnel initially thought they were dealing with a vehicle accident when Kazi crashed and they realized he was on fire. No shots were fired as he entered the base, and it was only after the fire was out and they broke through the locked minivan doors to aid Kazi that they realized it was loaded with five propane tanks, three gallon-size gasoline cans and several cigarette lighters, Ragan said. Also found was a gym bag with personal effects and three cellphones.AdvertisementKazi's body was so badly burned that he had to be identified by fingerprints. Ragan said he is a native of India who has lived in the United States since 1993 and was a permanent legal resident. He never served in the military and has no known ties to the air base, he said."We know what happened," Ragan said. "Now the question is why. Why was he there? What led him there? And we don't know the answers to that, quite frankly. So the investigation that we're doing right now is trying to piece together his life, trying to piece together what led up to this event, and attempt to determine why he was there and why he had those items in his vehicle ... They will continue at it until we get the answers."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ragan said they have been unable to find any of Kazi's family living in the United States. A family member in India has been notified of Kazi's death, Ragan said. He said Kazi appeared to work as a cab driver in the past, but that investigators haven't determined if he was currently employed. It's not clear if he owned the minivan."We don't have any evidence of any religious affiliation or anything at this point," Ragan said. "As of right now, we know of no other associates."Investigators have interviewed some of Kazi's acquaintances and are working on some search warrants, he said. They also are scouring social media, so far without result.Calls to several numbers associated with Kazi were not returned Friday.About 10,000 people live and work on the base 55 miles (88 kilometers) northeast of San Francisco.___Elias contributed to this report from San Francisco.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By HELEN T. VERONGOSMARCH 29, 2018
With its leggy white tulips, literal primrose paths and stalks of violet delphiniums stretching to the sky, Les Quatre Vents, the Canadian estate of Frank and Anne Perkins Cabot is a tribute to the glory of horticulture in all its forms — at least all the forms the Quebec climate will permit.“The Gardener,” directed by Sébastien Chabot, relies on previously recorded narration by Mr. Cabot, who died in 2011. Mr. Cabot refers to himself as a “master plagiarist” for purloining ideas from gardens he visited on his travels to Nepal, European cities and India, and employing them at home. The result is a dazzling series of separate outdoor scenes that open onto one another, with each framing a view of the next, or the St. Lawrence River beyond. The sights are enchanting, especially when the camera lingers on the Japanese garden, which was years in the making, or the charming pigeonnier, or the Chinese moon bridge set on a reflecting pond.A preview of the film.Experts discuss Mr. Cabot’s achievements in conserving other gardens and his philosophy in building his own, but the insights of Raynald Bergeron, the head gardener at the estate, who speaks only briefly, seem most authentic because he is closest to the earth.Some original music and a few well-worn classical choices accompany the natural beauty. Although Mr. Cabot says he planned his plantings with the “joy of discovery” and the emotional impact in mind, overall “The Gardener” is flat and lacking in soul, a word that comes up many times in the movie. And the revelation of how rarely the average human gets to share the pleasures of this sprawling paradise — just a few days each summer — deepens this disappointment.
Director
Sébastien Chabot 
Writer
Sébastien Chabot 
Stars
Francis Cabot,                                 Anne Cabot,                                 Adrienne Clarkson,                                 Colin Cabot,                                 Raynald Bergeron 
Running Time
1h 28m

Genre
Documentary Not rated. In English and French, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. But our primary goal is that this feature adds value to your reading experience.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:30 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Factbox on deposed Australian vice-captain David Warner who was banned for 12 months by Cricket Australia on Wednesday for his part in the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa.*Born: Oct. 27, 1986, Paddington, Australia*Made his test debut against New Zealand in 2011, scoring three and 12 at Brisbane.*He became the first Australian cricketer to be selected in 132 years for the national team without a single first-class cricket appearance when he made his Twenty20 international debut against South Africa in 2009.*An aggressive left-handed opening batsman, Warner has played 74 tests and scored 6363 runs at an average of 48.20, hitting 21 centuries and 29 fifties.Advertisement*He scored his maiden test century in December 2011 in Australia's unsuccessful run chase against New Zealand in Hobart.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.*In January 2012, he scored a 69-ball century against India at the WACA. At the time, this equalled West Indian Shivnarine Chanderpaul for the fourth fastest test century of all time, in terms of balls faced.Advertisement*He was suspended by Cricket Australia for his "unprovoked physical attack" on England's Joe Root in June 2013 and fined A$11,500 (6,278 pounds).*Warner was named Australia's vice-captain across tests, one-day internationals formats of the game in August 2015.*He is currently ranked fifth in the International Cricket Council's test batting rankings.(Compiled by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru; Editing by Christian Radnedge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:39 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Factbox on sacked Australian captain Steve Smith who was banned for 12 months by Cricket Australia on Wednesday in the wake of the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa.*Born: June 2, 1989, Sydney, Australia.*Made test debut against Pakistan at Lord's in 2010, scoring one and 12 and claiming three wickets.*Although initially selected for Australia as a right-arm leg spinner, Smith went on to become a top-order batsman.*He has played 64 tests and scored 6199 runs with a 61-plus average, hitting 23 centuries and 24 fifties.Advertisement*He was named in 2014 the country's 45th test captain, replacing the injured Michael Clarke.*He scored four centuries in four-consecutive home tests against India to join Donald Bradman (six), Neil Harvey, Jack Fingleton and Matthew Hayden (four each) as Australian centurions in four or more consecutive tests.Advertisement*The retirement of Clarke following Australia's 3-2 Ashes series defeat by England in 2015 saw Smith appointed as full-time skipper.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.*Smith scored five consecutive 50-plus scores in the 2015 World Cup to help Australia lift the trophy for the fifth time.*He finished top scorer for Australia with 508 runs in the 2015 Ashes series but England won the series 3-2.*He has scored over 1,000 test runs in each of the last four calendar years.*He led Australia to 4-0 series victory over England in 2017-18 Ashes and finished as top scorer in the series with 687 runs in five tests.*He was named ICC test player of the year in 2015 and 2017.*Current world number one in ICC test batting rankings.(Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru, editing by Ed Osmond)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 11:53 A.M. E.D.T.
ASHGABAT, Turkmenistan —  Voters in authoritarian Turkmenistan on Sunday chose a new parliament in an election that included candidates from three parties and some independents, but no real opposition to President Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov.The 125-seat Mejlis is largely a rubber-stamp body for Berdymukhamedov, who as president since 2007 has established a personality cult that reaches all levels of society, styling him as the Arkadag (protector).Songs praising Berdymukhamedov played at one polling station in the capital, Ashgabat. The national elections commission reported turnout of more than 85 percent as of two hours before polls closed. Election results are expected to be announced within three days."Our people always happily take part in elections, which are a holiday for us. It doesn't matter who wins in them because all the candidates for parliament deputies are dignified people," voter Dzhahan Khudaikulieva said.AdvertisementBut enthusiasm for the election wasn't universal."I'm not going to the elections today because I don't see the sense. Prices for food products, medical supplies and medicines are constantly rising," said a 70-year-old retiree who gave her name only as Valentina, because she feared repercussions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Turkmenistan's economy is heavily dependent on natural gas exports, and the country was hit hard when Russia stopped buying Turkmen gas in 2016. The country is placing hopes for increased revenue on an under-construction pipeline to Afghanistan, Pakistan and India.Berdymukhamedov last fall ordered an end to the free natural gas, electricity and water that residents of the ex-Soviet nation had enjoyed for a quarter century.Advertisement___Jim Heintz in Moscow contributed to this story.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 2:47 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  In Paris, the Eiffel Tower went dark. In London, a kaleidoscope of famous sites switched off their lights — Tower Bridge, Big Ben, Piccadilly Circus, Buckingham Palace, the London Eye.That scene was repeated over and over across the world on Saturday night: at Sydney's Opera House; at New Delhi's great arch; at Kuala Lumpur's Petronas Towers; at Edinburgh Castle in Scotland; at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate; at St. Basil's Cathedral in Moscow; at the Empire State Building in New York.It lasted for just an hour and its power is purely symbolic. But in countries around the world, at 8:30 p.m., people switched off their lights for Earth Hour, a global call for international unity on the importance of addressing climate change.Begun in Sydney in 2007, Earth Hour has spread to more than 180 countries, with tens of millions of people joining in, from turning off their own porch lights to letting the grand sites like the Opera House go dark.AdvertisementParis Mayor Anne Hidalgo said 300 Paris buildings observed the blackout to send a "universal message."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.These 60 minutes are "an opportunity" to shift "the consumption culture and behavior change toward sustainability," Indian Environment Minister Harsh Vardhan said.AdvertisementAll this happens and yet many people, of course, barely notice.Around India Gate, New Delhi's monument to the Indian dead in World War I, thousands embraced the city's nightly warm-weather ritual Saturday. They bought ice cream and cheap plastic trinkets. They flirted. Young children rode in electric carts that their parents rented for a few minutes at a stretch.But for an hour the arch stayed dark, a silent call for change.In Jordan, the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature arranged 11,440 candles on a hilltop in the capital of Amman, establishing a Guinness World Record for the largest candle mosaic.The candles spelled the Earth Hour motto of "60+." However, attempts to light the candles largely failed because of wind on the hilltop, which is close to the city's landmark, the Amman Citadel.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By IAN BAUMANMARCH 28, 2018

CreditMichael Bailey-Gates        A native of Rhode Island, the photographer Michael Bailey-Gates first moved to New York after high school in order to meet and make work with the artists he had become friends with online. “The internet was my secret passage to photography as a kid,” he says, explaining that he would share his early images of his world through Flickr. “I was always making a big mess at home, taking pictures in private to put online. Photography has always felt forbidden and dangerous to me, but has brought me everything in my life.”In New York, Bailey-Gates, 24, has continued to grow his network of collaborators, which now includes the artist, model and actress India Salvor Menuez, the singer Dev Hynes and the designers Mike Eckhaus and Zoe Latta, all of whom have appeared in his provocative portraits. A recipient of the Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation Award in 2015, Bailey-Gates describes making pictures as a process that has “formed my identity, my relationships, the way I connect to the world.”In this new body of work, “Horse in the Rough,” which debuts exclusively here, Bailey-Gates references early motion-study photographs — but applies a very current perspective, without the gender norms traditional to classical portraiture. “My photography is an imprint of my accumulated beliefs,” he explains. “I’m not trying to convince you of something, because to me it’s already true.”Featuring both the photographer and his friends in and out of garments, the images depict environments teetering between the mundane and the otherworldly, embodying his wider vision of a fluid reality. “Gender isn’t real,” he says. “I want photography to support this fact. I want to challenge binary systems of thinking and overcome them.”A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page ST3 of the New York edition with the headline: View Finder; Forbidden Lens.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:20 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Australia's Steve Smith has stepped down as captain of Indian Premier League side the Rajasthan Royals following the ball tampering scandal in South Africa, the franchise said on Monday.Smith was stripped of the Australian captaincy on Sunday and suspended for one test match by the International Cricket Council (ICC) after admitting conspiring to tamper with the ball during the third test against South Africa in Cape Town.He was due to captain Royals in this year's IPL but has been replaced by India's Ajinkya Rahane.In a statement, the Royals said Smith believes "it's in the best interest of the Rajasthan Royals that he steps down as captain so the team can get ready for the start of the IPL without the ongoing distractions."Smith re-joined Royals for this year's competition having previously played for them between 2014-15, with the side having paid $1.07 million for his services.Advertisement"The incident in Cape Town has certainly disturbed the cricketing world," Zubin Bharucha, the franchise's head of cricket, said.Advertisement"We have been in constant touch with the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India) and taken their counsel. Furthermore we have been in regular contact with Steve."Smith confessed on Saturday that he and a leadership group in the Australia team had hatched a plan at lunch on the third day of the test at Newlands to alter the condition of the ball.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Australia's opening batsman Cameron Bancroft, who was caught on camera attempting to carry out the plan, was handed three demerit points and a 75 percent fine of his match fee but escaped a ban."We agree with Steve's decision to step down as captain, and we are fortunate to have such a capable successor with Ajinkya Rahane," said Manoj Badale, the co-owner of Rajasthan Royals."It is important that all cricket fans retain a balanced perspective on the situation. What happened in South Africa was clearly wrong, especially given that it appears to have been pre-meditated."That said, this will be a difficult time for Steve as well, given how much he cares about the game."(Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; editing by Christian Radnedge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 5:08 A.M. E.D.T.
PATNA, India —  A powerful Indian politician was sentenced Saturday to 14 years in prison for embezzling 37 million rupees ($570,000) from a state government's treasury while he was the state's top elected official.Lalu Prasad Yadav was convicted of embezzling the money to buy fictitious medicines and cattle fodder while he was chief minister of Bihar state from 1990 to 1997.Eighteen former Bihar state officials, contractors and suppliers were sentenced in the case to jail terms ranging from 3 1/2 to five years.Yadav, who already has been convicted three times in related cases, was also fined 6 million rupees ($92,307).AdvertisementYadav, 69, who served as India's railways minister from 2004 to 2009, is barred from contesting elections. Earlier this month, he was shifted to a hospital from a prison after he complained of chest pains in Ranchi, the capital of Jharkhand state.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Corruption is endemic in Indian politics. Judges are now expediting trials of lawmakers accused of crimes including murder, fraud and extortion following a Supreme Court order to reach verdicts within one year in such cases. Indian lawmakers are now barred from running in elections if they are found guilty of offenses carrying a jail term of at least two years.Yadav has turned his political party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, or the National People's Party, into a family enterprise, with his wife, two sons and a daughter running it. The daughter is a member of India's Parliament and the two sons have become lawmakers in Bihar state.AdvertisementAround 15 percent of Indian lawmakers are facing court trials on criminal charges such as rioting, murder and extortion, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms, an activist group.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 9:26 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  In Paris, the Eiffel Tower went dark. In London, a kaleidoscope of famous sites switched off their lights — Tower Bridge, Big Ben, Piccadilly Circus, the London Eye.That scene was repeated over and over across the world on Saturday night: at Sydney's Opera House; at New Delhi's great arch; at Kuala Lumpur's Petronas Towers; at Edinburgh Castle in Scotland; at Brandenburg Gate in Berlin; at St. Basil's Cathedral in Moscow; at the Empire State Building in New York.It lasted for just an hour and its power is purely symbolic. But in countries around the world, at 8:30 p.m., people were switching off their lights for Earth Hour, a global call for international unity on the importance of addressing climate change.Since beginning in Sydney in 2007, Earth Hour has spread to more than 180 countries, with tens of millions of people joining in, from turning off their own porch lights to letting the grand sites like the Opera House go dark.AdvertisementParis Mayor Anne Hidalgo said 300 Paris buildings observed the blackout to send a "universal message."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Those 60 minutes are "an opportunity" to shift "the consumption culture and behavior change toward sustainability," Indian Environment Minister Harsh Vardhan said.AdvertisementAll this happens and yet many people, of course, barely notice.Around India Gate, New Delhi's monument to the Indian dead in World War I, thousands embraced the city's nightly warm-weather ritual Saturday. They bought ice cream and cheap plastic trinkets. They flirted. Young children rode in electric carts that their parents rented for a few minutes at a stretch.But for an hour the arch stayed dark, a silent call for change.In Jordan, the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature arranged 11,440 candles on a hilltop in the capital of Amman, establishing a Guinness World Record for the largest candle mosaic.The candles spelled the Earth Hour motto of "60+." However, attempts to light the candles largely failed because of wind on the hilltop, which is close to the city's landmark, the Amman Citadel.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:53 A.M. E.D.T.
BERLIN —  The number of failed asylum seekers who could not be repatriated from Germany because they lack valid documents jumped 71 percent in 2017 compared with the previous year, the interior ministry said on Monday.Around 65,000 failed asylum seekers were granted temporary permission to stay in the country in 2017 because they could not be repatriated due to their lack of identity papers, a ministry spokesman said, up from 38,000 in 2016.Germany has been trying to speed up such repatriations since Anis Amri, a Tunisian awaiting deportation, killed 12 people at a Berlin Christmas market in December 2016.  Amri's deportation had been delayed because he had no valid passport.Chancellor Angela Merkel's decision in 2015 to welcome more than a million migrants has provoked a popular backlash and increased support for the far-right Alternative for Germany party.AdvertisementMigration policy was one of the most disputed issues for Merkel's conservatives and the center-left Social Democrats in renewing their coalition this month.AdvertisementThe number of people who applied for asylum fell in 2017, however, coming in well below the maximum 220,000 agreed on by the coalition parties.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The largest numbers of failed applicants who could not be repatriated because they had no papers were from India (5,743), Pakistan (4,943), Afghanistan (3,915) and Russia (3,828),  publishing group Funke Mediengruppe reported, citing an interior ministry internal report.The nationalities of nearly 3,800 applicants were registered as "unclear", including people such as Palestinians and Kurds who did not have a country to which they could be deported, the report said.Cooperation between German authorities and the embassies of the countries of origin of failed applicants, to issue  substitute passports, was going poorly in many cases, the report said.Earlier this month, Europe's top migration official, Dimitris Avramopoulos, said the European Union wanted to tighten visa requirements for applicants from countries that were not cooperating enough on migrant deportations.(Reporting by Riham Alkousaa; editing by Andrew Roche)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JOHN ELIGONMARCH 6, 2018
OLATHE, Kan. — A Kansas man pleaded guilty on Tuesday to the murder of an Indian-born engineer whom he had angrily confronted about his immigration status at a bar here last year, then fatally shot in an attack that drew international scorn.Witnesses said the suspect, Adam Purinton, yelled, “Get out of my country” before firing the shots that killed the engineer, Srinivas Kuchibhotla, and wounded two others. Federal authorities called the attack a hate crime.Mr. Purinton’s guilty plea was for state charges of first-degree murder and attempted first-degree murder for the two men he wounded. Mr. Purinton, 52, is expected to be sentenced to life in prison on May 4, but he also still faces hate crime and firearm charges in federal court. The shooting came at a time of rising angst across the country over anti-immigrant sentiment and its potential ramifications.“Today’s guilty verdict will not bring back my Srinu, but it will send a strong message that hate is never acceptable,” Mr. Kuchibhotla’s widow, Sunayana Dumala, said in a statement.AdvertisementMr. Kuchibhotla had been having drinks at Austin’s Bar and Grill with a co-worker, Alok Madasani, who was also from India, when Mr. Purinton approached them on the patio and began interrogating them about their immigration status.“Where are you from?” he asked, according to Will Hurst, an assistant district attorney in Johnson County, who was reading from a statement in court on Tuesday. “How did you get into this country?”Other bar patrons came to the defense of the two men, and Mr. Purinton left. But he returned with a Taurus 9-millimeter handgun, covered his face with a scarf and opened fire, Mr. Hurst said. Mr. Purinton, a Navy veteran, fired at the two Indian men at least eight times at close range, the prosecutor said. Mr. Madasani was hit once in the thigh and escaped, but Mr. Kuchibhotla was struck several times.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The murder generated immense outrage in India and dominated headlines in the news media there. Many blamed President Trump’s tough rhetoric on immigration, but the White House rejected any link between that and the shooting. Still, the top American diplomat in India released a statement at the time condemning the attack and vowing a full investigation.When Mr. Hurst said in court on Tuesday that Mr. Kuchibhotla, 32, had died, Mr. Purinton leaned back, tilted his head up, and his lawyer, Michael McCulloch, patted him on the back. Mr. Purinton, wearing an orange jumpsuit with his hands cuffed in front of him, spoke only briefly in response to questions from Judge J. Charles Droege.AdvertisementAsked how he would plead to the first-degree murder charge, Mr. Purinton said, “Guilty, your honor.”Mr. Purinton had long struggled with alcoholism, neighbors and family said. He was whimsical and awkward, with a clumsy affect when he was drunk, they said.But he really seemed to struggle after his father died in 2015, people who knew him said. His relatively harmless drunkenness seemed to turn into something more sinister, those close to him said.“We all thought he was going to commit suicide,” said Adele Matthews, his niece. “We didn’t think he was going to do this.”Ms. Matthews said that she and her uncle were always close, but his relationship with her and the rest of the family began to fray after his father’s death. A couple of summers ago, she said, he made a derogatory comment about her weight, something he never would have done in the past.On Christmas 2016, he showed up to the family gathering about an hour late, she said, and he was already very drunk. Mr. Purinton was told that he needed to get himself together, Ms. Matthews recalled. One family member was particularly forceful, and Mr. Purinton became belligerent.“Don’t tell me what to do,” he told them, Ms. Matthews said. “I’m going to do whatever I want.”The family kicked him out of the party and pretty much broke ties with him after that, Ms. Matthews said.Months later, Mr. Purinton would fracture another family, killing Mr. Kuchibhotla and leaving a wife without her husband.Follow John Eligon on Twitter @jeligonA version of this article appears in print on March 7, 2018, on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Man Pleads Guilty in Migrant’s Murder.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 2:55 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc may make a rival offer to buy Indian e-commerce firm Flipkart, which is in tie-up talks with Walmart Inc, local media reported, as the two U.S. retail giants jostle for dominance in India's booming online industry.Amazon held early exploratory talks to buy control of Indian rival Flipkart but a deal with Walmart is more likely, daily newspaper Mint said on Wednesday, citing people with knowledge of the matter.One person familiar with the matter told Reuters that the probability of a deal with Amazon was low, and that any such deal could spark monopoly concerns as Flipkart and Amazon dominate India's e-commerce market. The person declined to be identified as discussions were private.Amazon declined to comment when contacted by Reuters. Flipkart and Walmart did not respond to requests for comment.AdvertisementWalmart is in talks to buy over 40 percent of Flipkart in potentially one of its biggest overseas deals, Reuters reported in February. A deal would give the world's largest brick-and-mortar retailer access to an e-commerce market that Morgan Stanley estimated to be worth $200 billion in a decade's time.AdvertisementThe deal would also represent a direct challenge to Amazon in Asia's third-largest economy. Amazon has committed to investing $5 billion in India as it expands into online grocery delivery.Walmart will buy a majority stake in Flipkart through a mix of primary and secondary share purchases in a deal that could value the Indian firm at $21 billion, Mint reported.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Flipkart, founded by former Amazon employees Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal in 2007, controls nearly 40 percent of India's online retail market, ahead of Amazon, showed estimates by researcher Forrester.Like Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, the pair began by selling books and diversified rapidly, including by selling smartphones through exclusive flash sales. Flipkart now competes with Amazon on almost all product categories.Flipkart's success has attracted a bevy of deep-pocketed and tech-savvy investors including U.S. hedge fund Tiger Global Management LLC, online marketplace eBay Inc and software maker Microsoft Corp, as well as Chinese technology firm Tencent Holdings Ltd.It was valued at around $12 billion when Japan's SoftBank Group Corp's Vision Fund bought roughly a fifth of the firm last year for $2.5 billion.(Reporting by Jessica Kuruthukulangara in Bengaluru; Editing by Sunil Nair and Christoper Cushing)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 4:29 P.M. E.D.T.
AUGUSTA, Ga. —  Shubhankar Sharma got his first glimpse of childhood icon Tiger Woods four years ago at the Delhi Golf Club.Sharma, his father and several friends were among the thousands crammed throughout the tight course to watch Woods play an exhibition round."We were pretty much running from one green to another," Sharma said. "It was a great thing. Tiger has been a big inspiration not only to me but to a lot of kids back home, so it was just great to watch him play in person and got to learn a lot."Sharma expects to top that this week at Augusta National.The 21-year-old from India, a rising star on the European Tour, is making his Masters debut and has his sights set on meeting Woods.AdvertisementHe got sort of close on Tuesday."I saw his bag outside the clubhouse," Sharma said with a smile.Sharma hopes to really cross paths with Woods before play begins Thursday.Advertisement"Tiger has a different aura about him and just the player that he is and how he dominated the world of golf is something," he said. "It definitely will be a fanboy moment for me when I go and say hi to him."The only thing comparable might be actually playing at Augusta National for the first time. Sharma received a special invitation to the Masters following a rapid rise that saw him win twice on the European Tour in the last four months. He claimed the Joburg Open in South Africa and the Maybank Championship in Malaysia. He also tied for ninth at his first World Golf Championship in Mexico and finished seventh the following week at the Hero Indian Open."It's been a treat to watch him and see how he's backing himself," said Anirban Lahiri, the player Sharma replaced as India's No. 1. "He's been unbelievable and very inspiring."Added Arjun Atwal, the first Indian winner on the PGA Tour: "It's amazing to see what he's doing at the age of 21. ... I kind of called it a few years ago when I said it was a matter of time before the younger Indians get better and better. The game is so young now, and he's proving me right. He's definitely proven he can win."He also seems to have an entire country pulling for him."Personally, I don't feel any burden," Sharma said. "I'm actually very happy that I'm getting a lot of attention. A lot of people back home are following me, and if I can get a good finish this weekend, maybe even win a green jacket, it will be great for the game."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He already has witnessed a shift back home. When he first started playing golf in the mid-2000s, there was one course in Chandigarh, the northern city where India's first top player, Jeev Milkha Singh, was raised. Sharma, like many Indian kids, grew up playing cricket and soccer.But he fell in love with golf and got even more hooked while waking up early each morning in 2007 and watching Zach Johnson win the Masters.A lot has changed since. India has more golf academies. It has more courses. It has more junior circuits. It has more kids picking up clubs.AdvertisementAnd there are a lot more eyes on him."At the end of the day, it's just a game and you just are just trying to have fun," Sharma said. "So if my game is good enough to win here, which I feel it is and if I play my best, I will surely be in contention. You know, it's just like any other golf tournament: You play four good rounds of golf, and you end up winning."Sharma doesn't lack confidence.Although he's taken a businesslike approach, he's had plenty of awe-inspiring moments: standing on the first tee for his first shot; playing Amen Corner for the first time; taking part in the tradition of skipping a ball across the par-3 16th; and making the drive down Magnolia Lane."It's the best road that I've driven on," he said, adding that he has gotten used to driving on the "other side" of the road. "Every time you get there you get goose bumps."Now, there's really only one thing left to do before Thursday: meet Woods."Arjun Atwal is a good friend of his, and he told me just go up and say hi to him and he'll be nice," Sharma said. "So I'll go and talk to him. It's great that I'm competing in the same tournament as him."___For more AP golf coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/apf-GolfWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 6:56 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  Protesters led by India's lower-caste Dalit community on Monday set fire to police posts and blocked railway tracks as they opposed a Supreme Court ruling that bars immediate arrest of individuals accused of discriminating against them, media said.Dalits are at the bottom of India's ancient caste hierarchy and form about a quarter of the population. Some protesters carried banners demanding a nationwide shutdown, while others held placards saying the judgment was diluting the law."Get out in strong numbers, block the roads if needed, but do not touch public property," Jignesh Mevani, an independent Dalit lawmaker from the western state of Gujarat, told the India Today news channel.Although he backed the protests, Mevani said, he was opposed to any damage to public property.Television showed images of police beating protesters and an unidentified person firing shots, with demonstrators in the northern state of Haryana also setting police posts ablaze and attacking shops.AdvertisementFour people were killed in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, where police imposed a curfew and blocked internet services in some places, television showed.AdvertisementShops were shut as protesters blocked key roads in many areas, including the capital, New Delhi, and the industrial city of Ahmedabad in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state of Gujarat, the paper added.Last month, the Supreme Court ruled that arrests under a law meant to speed action on complaints of violence against Dalits required prior sanction from officials, and barred the immediate arrest of those accused in such complaints.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In its judgment the court said prior approval was required following the acknowledged abuse of provisions for arrest in such cases.By the end of 2016, about 90 percent of roughly 145,000 cases involving Dalits were still awaiting trial, government data from last year showed.Investigation showed that fewer than a tenth of the cases brought by Dalits in 2016 were proved false, according to government data.Modi's government on Monday submitted a review petition to the court, asking it to amend the judgment, Home Minister Rajnath Singh said in a televised interview.Hindus, who account for more than 85 percent of India's population of 1.3 billion, were traditionally grouped into thousands of castes, whose membership was determined by birth.(Additional reporting by Sudarshan Varadhan in New Delhi and Derek Francis in Bengaluru; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 8:35 A.M. E.D.T.
CAPE TOWN —  South Africa will speed up visa processes and lure major conferences in an effort to boost foreign arrivals by 40 percent by 2021, its tourism minister said on Friday.The new measures are part of a goal to attract five million additional travellers – four million international tourists and one million extra local holiday trips and will help limit the "blip" a major drought is having on South Africa’s top tourist draw card, Cape Town, said minister Derek Hanekom."I am bullish because there is huge growth potential," Hanekom told Reuters in an interview."On the international front conditions are very much in our favour so its going to be easier to achieve the four million part than the one million," he said.Tourism, which contributes more than 400 billion rand ($34 billion) to Africa’s most industrialized economy, or around 8 percent of GDP, is seen by government as key to help drive growth and reduce a stubbornly high unemployment rate.AdvertisementSouth Africa emerged from a recession last year but is struggling to grow its economy and less disposal income means locals are hesitant to travel.AdvertisementHowever, the long-haul destination still provides good value for money for foreign tourists attracted to its white beaches, iconic Table Mountain and wildlife safaris.Earlier this month, the World Travel and Tourism Council said travel and tourism would contribute around 424.5 billion rand to the overall economy in 2018, before rising by 3.5 percent a year to 598.6 billion or 10.1 percent of GDP in 2028.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Besides establishing a fund which is geared to help South Africa win more global conferences and exhibitions, Hanekom said home affairs officials were also developing online visa applications, as well as possibly producing them for tourists on arrival at airports."Of course the first prize for us and the easiest is when visitors from particulars countries don't need visas at all," he said.Hanekom said discussions with home affairs and foreign relations departments would consider granting more countries visa waivers for short trips, following success with visitor numbers from Russia which increased 57 percent last year.Tourism officials said current visa processes were putting off tourists from China, India and Nigeria, some of the world's largest outbound travel markets.(Reporting by Wendell Roelf; Editing by Elaine Hardcastle)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 10:35 A.M. E.D.T.
SINGAPORE —  Singapore's competition watchdog said it had reasonable grounds to suspect competition had been infringed by Uber Technologies Inc's [UBER.UL] deal to sell its operations in Southeast Asia to rival ride-hailing firm Grab.In a rare move, the Competition Commission of Singapore (CCS) has begun an investigation into the deal and proposed interim measures that will require Uber and Grab to maintain their pre-transaction independent pricing, the watchdog said in a statement on Friday.The proposal also requires Uber and Grab not to take any action that might lead to the integration of their businesses in Singapore, a move likely to pose a major hurdle to the U.S. company's attempt to improve profitability by exiting the loss-making Southeast Asian market.It is the first time the commission has issued interim measures on any business in the country."To address consumer concerns, we have voluntarily committed to maintaining our fare structure and will not increase base fares. This is a commitment we are prepared to give the CCS, and to the public," Lim Kell Jay, head of Grab Singapore, told Reuters in a statement.AdvertisementUber was not immediately available for comment.Uber and Grab announced the deal on Monday, marking the U.S. company's second retreat from an Asian market.AdvertisementUnder the deal, Uber will take a 27.5 percent stake in Grab, which is valued at around $6 billion, and Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi will join the Singapore-based company's board.CCS proposals also require both Grab and Uber not to obtain from each other any confidential information including pricing, customers and drivers.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The two firms will be given an opportunity to make written representations to the CCS upon receipt of the proposed interim measures, it said.Singapore has a voluntary merger notification regime, and     CCS has yet to receive the notification from Uber and Grab as of Friday, although the companies have indicated their intention to file a formal merger notification, CCS said."We had engaged with the CCS prior to signing and continue to do so," Lim said."We have informed the CCS that we are making a voluntary notification no later than 16 April 2018 to continue to cooperate and engage with the CCS," he added.The deal is the industry's first big consolidation in Southeast Asia, home to about 640 million people, and is widely expected to give Uber more firepower to focus on other markets including India, as it prepares for an IPO in 2019.Uber lost $4.5 billion last year and is facing fierce competition at home in the United States and across Asia, as well as a regulatory crackdown in Europe. The firm has invested $700 million in its Southeast Asian operations.(Reporting by Miyoung Kim, additional reporting by Fathin Ungku; Editing by Himani Sarkar, Jacqueline Wong and Gareth Jones)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:41 A.M. E.D.T.
MILAN —  Italian make-up group Kiko is in talks to bring in a minority investor to help fund growth in India, the Middle East and Asia and lift profitability, Chief Executive Cristina Scocchia said.Scocchia built her reputation as the Italy head of French cosmetics giant L'Oreal and arrived at Kiko last July to relaunch the family-owned group that was founded in 1997.Kiko expanded abroad rapidly thanks to cheap but trendy products. It is now grappling with falling profit margins due to tougher competition and the e-commerce challenge facing all bricks-and-mortars retailers."We were pioneers, now we are no longer the only player in this market segment. Competition is stronger so we need to develop new strategies to return to profitable growth", Scocchia told Reuters in a telephone interview late on Wednesday.AdvertisementKiko, which competes with the likes of Max Factor, has seen its business formula replicated by smaller rivals in recent years while online competitors multiplied.AdvertisementTo finance a three-year business plan to 2020 Kiko is considering issuing new shares for an estimated 70-90 million euros ($86-$111 million).Scocchia said a new investor, which could be a private equity fund, may take up the new stock. The group's owners are Italy's Percassi family, who also own Serie A football club Atalanta."We're thinking about the possibility of having a partner that can bring in new capital but also specific expertise in those geographical areas we want to develop," she said.Scocchia said Kiko was in talks with a couple of potential investors and hoped to take a decision by the summer. She declined to give further details.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Under the plan, Kiko will invest 90 million euros to fund product research and marketing as well as to further digitalise the company and open 73 new outlets.The group has more than 1,000 directly-owned stores in 21 countries and reaps 64 percent of its revenue outside Italy.Last year it reported a 3 percent increase in revenues to 610 million euros but margins fell, Scocchia said.In January, Kiko filed for bankruptcy protection in the United States where it closed 27 out of 30 shops as they were not making money.Advertisement"We've kept three which are important for the brand's image and then we want to invest significantly in e-commerce."Scocchia didn't rule out a listing in the distant future."Going public is one of the goals we have set for ourselves. It's an important goal, but in the near term we have different priorities", she said.(Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:18 A.M. E.D.T.
JAKARTA, Indonesia —  Prosecutors demanded 16 years in prison for a senior Indonesian politician accused of playing a key role in the theft by officials of $170 million of public money.At a sentencing demand hearing on Thursday, prosecutors also called for fines and the seizure of Setya Novanto's assets if he fails to return $7.4 million including a $135,000 luxury "Richard Mille" watch that he allegedly received as part of the conspiracy.Anti-corruption police allege Novanto was among about 80 people, mostly officials and legislators, who used the introduction of a $440 million electronic identity card system in 2011 and 2012 to steal more than a third of the funds.Novanto, the former speaker of Indonesia's parliament and senior member of the Golkar party, denies any wrongdoing.AdvertisementProsecutor Irene Putri told the special corruption cases court that the stolen money flowed through Indonesia, the U.S., Mauritius, India, Singapore and Hong Kong as the conspirators sought to hide its illegal origins.AdvertisementShe said the trial has revealed "new methods on how to drain money from the proceeds of crime without going through the national banking system, aiming to avoid the detection of financial authorities in Indonesia."The corruption case, brazen and epic even by the standards of Indonesia's notoriously corrupt parliament, has caused outrage in the world's third largest democracy.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Novanto last year spent months eluding anti-graft officials.In November, he was hospitalized after being involved in a car crash in Jakarta that was widely mocked online as another tactic to avoid arrest.He was arrested in the hospital after doctors who examined Novanto said he was fit to stand trial.Several other leading politicians, including ministers in President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo's government, are possibly implicated by the scandal.Putri likened the anti-graft commission's investigations to a marathon and said it is continuing to pursue the case."We are not running out of energy to keep investigating," she said.Prosecutors want Novanto to face a further three years in prison if an auction of his assets failed to raise $7.4 million. They said he should be banned from holding public office for five years following his prison term.The trial is expected to resume on April 13 when lawyers for Novanto will respond to the prosecution.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 3:14 A.M. E.D.T.
SYDNEY —  Former Australia coach Mickey Arthur believes the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa was an inevitable result of an unwillingness to improve the culture in the country's entire cricket set-up.The South African, now coach of Pakistan, was sacked by Australia in 2013 after a series of embarrassing standoffs with some of the test team over standards of professionalism on an ill-fated tour of India and leading up to an Ashes series."Unfortunately, it was always going to end like this," Arthur wrote on the PlayersVoice http://www.playersvoice.com.au website of the incident in Cape Town that led to bans for captain Steve Smith, his deputy David Warner and opening batsman Cameron Bancroft."Despite generational change, independent reviews and too many behavioural spotfires to list, Cricket Australia and the national team had demonstrated no real willingness or desire to improve the culture within their organisation from season to season.Advertisement"That could lead to only one conclusion. An explosion. A deterioration of standards that would culminate in an incident so bad, so ugly, that it would shame the leaders of the organisation into taking drastic action... "AdvertisementArthur said the behaviour of the Australia team over the five years since he was replaced by Darren Lehmann had been "boorish and arrogant".He had particularly scathing words for "the line", the limits of good conduct on the pitch which the Australian team have long argued they stayed just the right side of."I've hated this talk about 'the line'," he wrote."What is the line? Who sets it? Who dictates how it is enforced? It is totally different culture-to-culture, yet the Australians believe they're the ones who should be setting it?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."That it's okay to intimidate a person from another country, another culture, during the day and be buddies with him afterwards? Nonsense."The Aussies have played the victim when they deem the other team has overstepped the mark. And when they've been in the ascendancy and behaved badly, everything is okay because they have determined as much."Arthur said the ball-tampering scandal might ultimately end up being a force for good in helping prompt reform in Australian cricket."An incident like this had to happen for the necessary cultural shift to take place. Australian cricket has been in an ivory tower for too long," he said."They had to take decisive action. If they didn't, things would inevitably return to the way they had been and another major incident would've been inevitable."The job to repair the damage to the Australian cricket brand is underway."By doing so, Cricket Australia might just improve the tone and standard of the way the game is played around the world."Advertisement(Reporting by Nick Mulvenney; Editing by John O'Brien)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:24 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - A photograph posted on Twitter of Steve Smith's autobiography "The Journey" in the 'True Crime' section of a Brisbane bookstore cruelly sums up the spectacular self-destruction of one of modern cricket's most illustrious careers.Irrespective of whether he dons the fabled baggy green cap again, Smith has already checked in at Australian cricket's hall of shame next to Trevor Chappell, whose underarm delivery in 1981 is considered the nadir of the game Down Under.Few expected the career of Australia's Ashes-winning captain to unravel in such spectacular fashion but signs of a demise had already been evident last year when Smith underwent what he called a "brain fade" in India.The visiting captain triggered a storm by looking towards the Australian dressing room in the second test in Bengaluru, seeking guidance whether to review his lbw decision in a clear breach of the players' code of conduct.AdvertisementThe bad blood it created overshadowed the series but even that indiscretion paled in comparison with what transpired in Cape Town on Saturday, where Smith presided over an orchestrated attempt to both tamper with the ball and the spirit of the game.AdvertisementBoth incidents illustrate Smith's desperation to win at all costs, a philosophy that eventually cost him what otherwise would have been a great legacy of Australia's Ashes-winning captain.For in Smith, Australia boasted a stirring leader who was also their batting mainstay -- two roles the 28-year-old juggled with ridiculous ease.Many even found inspiration in how a player selected as a leg-spinner who came in at number eight on his test debut eight years ago emerged as arguably the best batsman of his era.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I do feel for Steve Smith," former Australia captain Michael Clarke told Australia's Channel Seven. "Hundred percent he has made a major mistake and he and a lot of other people I think are going to have to suffer the consequences."That's fair enough. But I think it's important that we do over time forgive as well," said Clarke, whom Smith succeeded as Australia captain.Forgiveness may not come easy, though.The scandal has already forced several sponsors to review their association with Australia's favourite pastime and infuriated Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and other less prominent fans.In a single, ill-conceived stroke, Smith has ensured that his 31 international centuries, stints at the top of the batting rankings and inspired leadership in a successful Ashes campaign will not linger in public memory.Instead, a second brain fade ensured Smith would be remembered more as the architect-in-chief of a dirty trick using dirt and some sticky tape, which only succeeded in causing the downfall of someone who put winning above everything else.(Reporting by Amlan Chakraborty in New Delhi; Editing by John O'Brien)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:57 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  SoftBank Group Corp. Chief Executive Masayoshi Son announced Wednesday a $200 billion solar power project in Saudi Arabia, which he described as "the world's biggest solar power generation."The project is in cooperation with the kingdom's young and powerful Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, a partner in the SoftBank Vision Fund, set up in 2016. The fund has already invested in companies in the U.S., India and Europe.The deal is the first major investment by the fund in Saudi Arabia. It was announced in New York after a Saudi-U.S. CEO forum held on the sidelines of the crown prince's multi-day tour across the U.S.The ample sunshine and land and Saudi Arabia's pool of engineers and skilled workers make the foray into solar there lucrative, Son said.AdvertisementHe said the project will create 100,000 jobs, reduce Saudi Arabia's dependence on oil for its electricity, which it can sell internationally instead, and will generate 200 gigawatts of electricity by 2030.AdvertisementThe kingdom, which is one of the world's largest oil producers, estimates its local energy consumption will increase three-fold by 2030. To build up its renewable energy sector, the crown prince has outlined an initial target of generating 9.5 gigawatts of renewable energy in his "Vision 2030" plan, which is a blueprint of mostly economic targets aimed at creating more jobs for the country's majority young population entering the workforce in the coming years and diversifying the economy away from its reliance on oil exports for revenue.The solar panels for the project will be imported at first, but will later include a panel manufacturing and assembly site, according to Son.  Construction on the project begins immediately, and electricity generation will start next year, he told reporters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The announcement could boost confidence in the crown prince's efforts to attract billions in foreign investment during his U.S. tour after the unprecedented arrest of hundreds of top figures in Saudi Arabia, including prices, business moguls and military officers last year. The purported anti-corruption sweep, which the prince oversaw, spooked many foreign investors concerned about transparency and predictability.SoftBank, founded in 1981, has within its sprawling investment empire financial-technology, ride-booking services and the Pepper human-shaped companion robot.The first telecoms carrier to offer the iPhone in Japan, SoftBank has bought British semiconductor company ARM and Japanese professional baseball team, the Softbank Hawks.Son has been a critic of nuclear energy after the 2011 tsunami set off multiple meltdowns in Fukushima, northeastern Japan, the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl, and sees solar energy as a key part of his company strategy.____Associated Press writer Aya Batrawy in Dubai contributed.____Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyamaWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By BRIAN X. CHENMARCH 29, 2018
The Reader Center is one way we in the newsroom are trying to connect with you, by highlighting your perspectives and experiences and offering insight into how we work. There’s an app for that, but I’m not sure anyone cares anymore. That thought was stuck in my head when I pitched the idea for Tech We’re Using, a column about how New York Times journalists use tech in their jobs and personal lives.Over the last decade, smartphones have become the center of how we consume and create media. Apps used to be a novelty; there was a period of time when smartphones were young and we were excited about finding new apps to download.But by now, there are millions of apps for smartphones, and people have found and settled on the tools that are the most useful to them. So what are people doing with tech now that it’s become such a personalized commodity tailored to their lives?AdvertisementMy editor and I decided to invite members of The New York Times from every corner of the newsroom to riff about the tech they are passionate about. Since starting the feature last year, we’ve published roughly 50 pieces. The responses are a window into a diverse staff that goes well beyond our bustling newsroom in Manhattan.AdvertisementI’ve loved reading about how our restaurant critic, who tries to stay unrecognized in restaurants, blends in with other diners by snapping photos of his food just like everyone else does in the Instagram era. I found it incredibly useful for readers to hear what our Frugal Traveler columnist packs when he travels on a budget.Especially insightful is when Times staff members talk about how tech has changed the industries or topics they cover; if I had to pick a favorite, our Modern Love editor’s thoughts about how tech has transformed dating and romance was a treat on Valentine’s Day.And sometimes, it’s just plain interesting to hear that our India correspondent relies on air purifiers to endure the pollution in Mumbai, or that our Japan correspondent has to send interview requests with a fax machine.After doing many of these interviews, my takeaway is that the smartphone and computer are still the most vital tools for people to do work.In none of these interviews was there ever a hint that the tablet would replace the personal computer for doing serious work, like Apple and others have predicted. Maybe that will happen someday, but it doesn’t appear that it will anytime soon.Having done these interviews for a while now, I’m eager to hear from readers what else they would like to learn about our staff. What do you like about the column, and what could be better? And do you have any requests for people we have not featured yet? We’re all ears.Follow the Reader Center on Twitter: @ReaderCenter.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:21 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  More than 25 million people, a number greater than Australia's population, have applied for about 90,000 positions on India's state-run railways, underlining the challenge Prime Minister Narendra Modi faces in providing millions of jobs ahead of an election in 2019.Modi was voted into power in 2014 on promises to reignite growth in Asia's third-largest economy and provide jobs. But his flagship "Make in India" initiative to lift the share of manufacturing in India's $2 trillion economy to 25 percent from about 17 percent and create 100 million jobs by 2022 has so far failed to deliver on its promise.The railway, which currently employs 1.3 million people, said it was filling up tens of thousands of vacant positions for engine drivers, technicians, carpenters, track inspection crews and other roles related to improving safety in the world's fourth-largest network."We've not been recruiting for the last couple of years and attrition is already there. And so we require people," Ashwani Lohani, chairman of the railways board, told Reuters.AdvertisementThe Railway Recruitment Board advertised for the positions last month and since then 25 million people have filed online applications from around the country, Lohani said. The closing date is Saturday.AdvertisementThe recruitment drive would be the largest conducted by a state-run organization since Modi took office four years ago, struggling to find jobs for an estimated 1 million young people that enter the labor force each month."The huge number of applications shows the level of stress," said Mahesh Vyas, chief executive officer at economic think-tank CMIE."It shows that there is really a paucity of jobs, and the other thing is about the great preference that Indians have got for government jobs. We need to move away from this."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The railways are India's biggest employer and are in the midst of a $130 billion modernization plan.Applicants will take a written test available in 15 languages, according to the ad. There is also a physical fitness test and different criteria for men and women have been specified.Lohani said it would be a logistical challenge sifting through 25 million candidates but the railway was equipped to handle it. "We had to come out with an open advertisement, that is the only way to do it," he said.India's unemployment rate surged to a 15-month high of 6.1 percent in February, think-tank CMIE said.Even after the railway has completed the recruitment, the challenge will be how to train the new workers, which is  critical for safety, another expert said."When you take 90,000 people in one shot, you don't have the training facilities," said Pronab Sen, country director for the UK-based International Growth Centre, which is focused on economic policies.(Reporting by Neha Dasgupta; Additional reporting by Krishna N. Das; Editing by Sanjeev Miglani)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 9:38 A.M. E.D.T.
FRANKFURT/ZURICH —  GlaxoSmithKline is buying Novartis out of their consumer healthcare joint venture for $13 billion, taking full control of products including Sensodyne toothpaste, Panadol headache tablets, muscle gel Voltaren, and Nicotinell patches.GSK's biggest move since Emma Walmsley became chief executive last year follows the British drugmaker's decision last week to quit the race to buy Pfizer's consumer healthcare business, endangering an auction the U.S. company hoped would bring in as much as $20 billion.Consumer remedies sold over the counter have lower margins than prescription drugs, but they are typically well-known brands with customers."The proposed transaction addresses one of our key capital allocation priorities and will allow GSK shareholders to capture the full value of one of the world's leading consumer healthcare businesses," Walmsley said in a statement on Tuesday.AdvertisementAlthough some pharmaceuticals groups have been keen to hold consumer care products, intense price competition online, mainly from Amazon, as well as cheaper store-brand products, have led others to doubt their stable returns longer-term.AdvertisementThe British group's shares jumped 6.1 percent, outperforming a 2 percent gain in the STOXX Europe 600 Health Care.GSK said that as well as ending the Novartis venture it would start a strategic review of Horlicks and other consumer nutrition products, sparking another potential industry shake-up. The review will include an assessment of its majority stake in India-listed GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare."The decision not to pay up for Pfizer's consumer assets will have led GSK CEO Emma Walmsley to remove uncertainty by bringing all the consumer revenues in-house and assisting toward efficient capital allocation," said Ketan Patel, co-manager of the Amity UK Fund at EdenTree Investment Management, who holds GSK shares."Long-term investors will welcome the greater clarity this brings to both companies."GSK said that the purchase would boost adjusted earnings and cash flows.Pfizer has been struggling to sell its consumer healthcare business after GSK and Reckitt Benckiser both dropped out of the bidding, while differences in price expectations have also hobbled German drugmaker Merck KGaA's attempts to sell its consumer products unit.And GSK's call for bids for its consumer healthcare nutrition brands - with a regional focus on India - could detract attention from Merck's asset, which relies heavily on sales of vitamins and dietary supplements in emerging markets.NOVARTIS SHARES RISEBarclays analysts said Glaxo was paying less than 17 times expected 2018 core earnings for the joint venture stake, while sources have told Reuters that both Merck and Pfizer had asked for up to 20 times for their respective assets.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Yet analysts at Baader Helvea welcomed the cash price fetched by Novartis as "excellent news" for the Swiss company, whose shares opened 1.9 percent higher.AdvertisementDeutsche Bank analysts said the move decluttered Novartis's portfolio, but cautioned that the Swiss group was being too vague about what it would do with the cash."The time is right for Novartis to divest a non-core asset at an attractive price," Novartis CEO Vas Narasimhan said.Novartis said the money would be used by Novartis to expand its business organically as well as for bolt-on acquisitions.In an interview before the deal was announced, Narasimhan ruled out large acquisitions by the Basel-based company."We want to focus our M&A efforts on bolt on acquisitions that have either new technologies or products that fit into our core therapeutic areas," he told CNBC in an interview recorded on Sunday.For Narasimhan, a Harvard trained medical doctor, the disposal is among his first moves as CEO, a role he took on less than two months ago when he replaced Joe Jimenez.He is now emphasizing the use of technology to boost returns on research investment but Novartis is currently also reviewing its Alcon eye care unit for a possible spinoff to shareholders, which could come in early 2019.Under the 2014 deal to pool their consumer assets, Novartis had the right so sell its 36.5 percent stake to Glaxo from this month. The transaction is set to complete in the second quarter, subject to necessary approvals.($1 = 0.7029 pounds)(additional reporting by Simon Jessop in London, Michael Shields in Zurich; editing by Alexander Smith and Louise Heavens)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 11:41 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  British Airways said it will retain its in-house call centres in Newcastle and Manchester, dashing Capita's hopes of winning contracts to run the operations.BA said on Wednesday that the two centres, which employ 1,100 people, would receive millions of pounds in extra investment, a decision that won praise from Britain's biggest trade union."I am pleased that following a very detailed review, we are planning to retain both of our long-standing UK call centres in Newcastle and Manchester," British Airways Chief Executive Alex Cruz said.BA has been trying to cut costs in recent years, and Capita had been in a period of "exclusive engagement" with the airline to support BA's global customer contact operations, which it said handles around 9.5 million calls a year.AdvertisementBA began talks with Capita in June last year and the talks became public just days after a massive IT outage grounded flights from London's Heathrow and Gatwick airports over a public holiday weekend, which drew public scrutiny onto BA's cost-cutting. The airline has denied any link between outsourcing and the outage, which it said was caused by a power surge.AdvertisementThe Unite trade union welcomed the fact BA had decided to keep the call centres in-house rather than use a third-party outsourcing group. The use of outsourcers has come under greater scrutiny since the collapse of Carillion earlier this year.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I think there is a new mood across business and other organisations in the UK that, following the recent Carillion debacle, outsourcing is not necessarily the best option if you wish to develop your business successfully," Unite officer Oliver Richardson said in a statement.British Airways said it would retain a further 900 people in its other call centre operations in Germany, Hong Kong and India, and was exploring a possible new centre in Cape Town, which would be run by a third party such as Capita."Capita is continuing to work with British Airways about elements of global customer contact transformation and support. This includes discussing a potential new contact centre site in Cape Town," a spokesman for Capita said.(Reporting by Alistair Smout; Editing by Kate Holton and Susan Fenton)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 4:42 A.M. E.D.T.
ISLAMABAD —  He is crisscrossing Pakistan championing a fatwa, or Islamic religious decree, forbidding militant violence inside the country. But the mere fact that Fazlur Rehman Khalil, veteran leader of an organization designated as a terror group by the U.S., is free has experts questioning Pakistan's willingness to fight extremism.Khalil, once a close friend of the late al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden, co-founded Harakat-ul-Mujahedeen, a group accused by India of attacking its forces in the Kashmir region and by the U.S. of training militants and carrying out attacks in Afghanistan. The group has undergone several name changes over time and is now known as Ansar-ul Ummah.But authorities have left him alone. At his home on the outskirts of the capital, Islamabad, the gates are protected by a burly, bushy bearded guard whose automatic rifle is always at his side. Khalil's madrassa, or religious school, named for Khalid bin Al-Waleed, one of the most prominent early Muslim commanders leading the conquest of Iraq and Syria in the 7th century, occupies a sprawling compound next door in the middle of a crowded market.In an interview with The Associated Press, Khalil denied the accusations against his group and he applauded the fatwa, which he joined other Sunni and Shiite religious scholars in writing, denouncing militant violence in Pakistan as against Islam. The fatwa, issued in January, is the first such decree issued by such a broad range of scholars in Pakistan.Advertisement"Terrorism, suicide attacks, blasts, and killing of innocent people are forbidden in Pakistan, in accordance with Sharia (Islamic law)," Khalil said, dressed in a starched white traditional shalwar kameez and looking relaxed on the manicured lush green lawn of his compound.Advertisement"Religious scholars belonging to different schools of thought are unanimous on the issue and are against terrorism."Afghanistan has criticized the fatwa because it is specific to Pakistan. Khalil said Afghan President Ashraf Ghani should call Islamic scholars in his country together to issue a fatwa of their own. He offered to go to Kabul to help craft the fatwa."If Ghani does this we will support his initiative. We wish he would do it. If Afghans sit with us we will support them," he said.Since the beginning of the year Pakistan has come under relentless pressure from the United States to crack down on militants, particularly the Haqqani network, it says has found safe havens in Pakistan. While Islamabad denies organized havens, it says insurgents move around among the 1.5 million Afghan refugees still living in Pakistan.U.S. President Donald Trump in a blistering New Year's day tweet accused Pakistan of "lies and deceit" and later suspended hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid.The 55-year-old Khalil's stature in the militant hierarchy has waned since the late 1990s, when he signed on to bin Laden's fatwa ordering the faithful to attack U.S. interests wherever they found them.Still, his organization's publications are used to raise money and have exhorted the faithful to fight in Afghanistan, where the Afghan National Army, backed by the U.S.-led coalition, is struggling against a resurgent Taliban.AdvertisementThat sort of fundraising has contributed to the likelihood that Pakistan will be placed on a so called 'gray list" of countries doing too little to stop terrorism when the Financial Action Task Force, an inter-government group trying to stem terror financing, meets in June.The U.S. State Department in 2014 said Khalil's group still runs training camps in eastern Afghanistan. In 2016, Indian security forces said they arrested five Harakat members on its side of the disputed Kashmir region, allegedly planning attacks on Indian dignitaries.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."This is someone who had close and direct ties to Osama Bin Laden, and is very plugged in to the militant networks of South Asia," said Michael Kugelman, deputy director of the Asia Program at the U.S.-based Wilson Center. "Even if he's not making much noise, he shouldn't be taken lightly."Khalil dismissed U.S. criticism of Pakistan for allowing militant leaders to roam free."Whether America likes it or doesn't like it makes no difference to me. I am Pakistani. We have courts. We are not U.S. slaves," he said."If Pakistan has any charges of terrorism they can summon us. I am ready to go to court. The U.S. is not interested in courts, it is pressing for extra-judicial actions," he said.Khalil called U.S. policy confused and contradictory. He dismissed suggestions that the Haqqani network, which the U.S. has declared a terrorist group, is separate from the Taliban, which has not been declared a terrorist group to leave open the possibility of future negotiations."You can't separate the two. ... Taliban and Haqqanis are the same," he said. "Sirajuddin Haqqani is the Number 2 in the Taliban. How can you separate the two?"Khalil, like many militants in south and southeast Asia, traces his career back to Afghanistan during the Soviet Union's occupation in the 1980s. Then he fought on the side of the United States, which backed the mujahedeen — or, as President Ronald Reagan called them, "freedom fighters." Today, many have joined the Afghan Taliban.Khalil said U.S. intelligence trained him on the sophisticated U.S. Stinger anti-aircraft missiles that historians say turned the tide of the war. The Soviets withdrew in 1989.Advertisement"I have fought with the Americans in Afghanistan," he said. "But I haven't gone to Kashmir for a single day."Analysts say Pakistan's policy of allowing militants their freedom is mostly motivated by its concerns about India, against whom it has fought three wars, two of them over Kashmir.Pakistan also repeatedly reminds the United States and its critics that it has lost thousands of soldiers — more than the U.S. and NATO combined in Afghanistan __ fighting militants on its territory. It says U.S. criticism is unfair and an attempt to put its own failures in Afghanistan on the shoulders of Pakistan."Pakistan has certainly taken aggressive action against some militant groups" said Seth Jones, director of Transnational threats Project at the U.S.-based Center for Strategic and International Studies.But its intelligence agencies "continue to use some militants as a tool of foreign policy in countries like Afghanistan and India."____Follow Gannon at  HYPERLINK "http://www.twitter.com/kathygannon"We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:14 A.M. E.D.T.
HONG KONG —  The Philippines will be one of three teams making their debut at the expanded Asian Cup in 2019 after sealing their spot with Tuesday's 2-1 win over Tajikistan, and skipper Phil Younghusband hopes qualification will spark a new era of soccer growth in the country.The victory, which came after the hosts scored twice in the last 16 minutes to overhaul Tajikistan, also ensured group rivals Yemen would qualify for Asia's continental championship for the first time.The pair join fellow new boys Kyrgyzstan in the draw on May 4 for next January's tournament in the United Arab Emirates.Younghusband, who scored a 90th minute penalty to give his side the win in Manila, said he hoped Philippine football was now on the rise.Advertisement"Hopefully this is the catalyst for more growth in Philippine football," he said."In 2010, we got a lot of support from the private industry and hopefully this moment can spur a resurgence in Philippine football, get people to talk about Philippine football again."AdvertisementFootball in the Philippines, and in other nations that have sat outside Asia's established elite, is likely to receive a significant profile boost thanks to the 2015 decision to expand the quadrennial finals from 16 to 24 nations.Throughout the last two decades, football in Asia has been dominated by the same small group of nations, who have monopolised the continent's World Cup berths and Asian Cup success.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Japan have won the title four times since 1992, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Iran are often among the contenders, while Australia joined the confederation in 2006 and won the most recent edition on home soil three years ago.Increasing the number of teams at the finals is unlikely to end the dominance of those nations any time soon, but opening up more places should provide improved opportunities for other countries to break into the Asian elite.Yemen booked their place at the tournament despite not being able to play in front of their own fans due to the ongoing security issues at home, while Kyrgyzstan sealed their berth last week.Vietnam, building on their run to the final of the Asian U23 championship in January, will be returning to the finals after missing out in 2011 and 2015, while India return will be making only their second appearance in 35 years.In addition to Kyrgyzstan, former Soviet republics  Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have also qualified.(Editing by Peter Rutherford)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 6:23 A.M. E.D.T.
BRUSSELS —  The European Union began a study on Monday on whether the import tariffs imposed by U.S. President Donald Trump warranted action to prevent predominantly Asian producers flooding Europe with steel.Trump's tariffs, of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminium, came into force last Friday, although the European Union and six other countries secured temporary exemptions.The EU is concerned about whether steel manufacturers subject to the U.S. tariffs will divert their product to Europe, leading to a surge of imports.Its study, which may last up to nine months, could lead the EU to impose its own quotas or tariffs on steel, including stainless steel and pipes, to prevent harm to its own industry.AdvertisementThe tariffs or quotas would have to apply to all countries, meaning leading exporters China, India, Russia, South Korea and Turkey would be hit. U.S. steel makes up less than 1 percent of EU steel imports.Advertisement"The information currently available to the European Commission... has revealed that imports of certain steel products have recently increased sharply showing that there is sufficient evidence that these trends in imports appear to call for safeguards measures," the European Commission said in a document published in the EU official journal on Monday.China's commerce ministry said it was willing to strengthen coordination with the European Union to cope with chaos caused by the U.S metals tariffs, adding that protective measures would only make the situation worse.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Commission said total imports of steel had increased to 29.3 million tonnes in 2017 from 17.8 million tonnes in 2013, largely due to global overcapacity and measures taken by third countries to limit dumping.For some products, it said, the industry was in a fragile condition and vulnerable to further increases in imports, which was likely due to trade defence measures, including the recent imposition of tariffs by the United States."The investigation will examine the situation of the products concerned, including the situation of each of the product categories individually, also based on the most recent developments, such as any trade diversion resulting from the US measures," the Commission said.It has given interested parties 21 days to complete questionnaires or submit information to aid its inquiry.The European Union itself has until May 1 to secure a permanent exemption from U.S. metals tariffs.Europe says it wants to avert a trade war but the Commission has proposed a series of measures if the White House hits EU producers, including a challenge at the World Trade Organization and import duties on U.S. products such as orange juice, bourbon and Harley-Davidson Inc motor-bikes.(Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; Editing by Hugh Lawson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:04 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  The United States has agreed to double its planned 2018 budget contribution to the ITER project to build a prototype nuclear fusion reactor, avoiding delays to the international project this year, its director said on Monday.Washington cut the United States' 2017 contribution from a scheduled $105 million to $50 million and had planned to cut its 2018 contribution from a scheduled $120 million to $63 million.But in last-minute talks about the U.S. 2018 budget last week, the U.S. Congress approved a draft Omnibus Spending Bill with a $122 million in-kind contribution for ITER, which President Donald Trump signed into law on Friday, ITER said."This is a very positive signal ... it will prevent ITER having to announce project delays in 2018," ITER Director-General Bernard Bigot told Reuters in a telephone interview.AdvertisementHe added that if the United States would make up for missing cash contributions of about $120 million for the 2016-18 period, ITER would remain on track in future years.AdvertisementThe International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) project is a cooperation between Europe, the United States, China, India, Japan, Russia and South Korea to build a prototype fusion reactor to generate electricity in a process similar to the nuclear fusion that powers the sun.With an estimated cost of about 20 billion euros ($25 billion), the project is more than halfway towards the first test of its super-heated plasma by 2025 and first full-power fusion by 2035.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.ITER member countries contributions to the project are not mainly in cash but in kind, as they finance the manufacturing of ITER components via their own national companies. These parts are then shipped to France and assembled on ITER's Cadarache, southern France site.But there is also a cash contribution, which for the U.S. was 30-32 million euros per year in the 2016 to 2018 period, or about 100 million euros, Bigot said."We hope that at least maybe a small part of the U.S. 2018 contribution could be in cash so as to give a political signal to the other ITER members," said Bigot, who was appointed ITER director in 2015.ITER's main U.S. supplier is California-based General Atomics, which is building the project's central solenoid, an 18-metre tall pillar-like magnet that will be one of the first components to be installed by 2020.The United States has given about $1 billion to ITER so far, and had been planning to contribute an additional $500 million through 2025.($1 = 0.8037 euros)(Reporting by Geert De Clercq; Editing by Catherine Evans and Ken Ferris)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:41 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  A social media furor over data privacy on Indian political party apps escalated on Monday with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and opposition Indian National Congress trading barbs.The row comes at a time of heightened sensitivity worldwide after the alleged misuse of personal data amid the unfolding Facebook-Cambridge Analytica controversyAllegations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's official mobile app was sending personal user data to a third party without consent caused an online uproar over the weekend.Modi's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party denied the allegations and said the data was being used only for analytics to offer the "most contextual content".AdvertisementThe BJP in turn took aim at the Congress on Monday after the same security researcher highlighted that the opposition party's app was transmitting personal data of those that signed up in an unsecured format.AdvertisementThe Congress later appeared to have deleted the link to its app entirely on Monday, prompting Amit Malviya, the head of the BJP's IT cell, to tweet, "What is the Congress party trying to hide?"The Congress responded on Twitter saying it was forced to remove the app as an incorrect link was being circulated and people were being misled.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The security researcher, who has previously highlighted some vulnerabilities in India's national identity card project and who tweets under the pseudonym Elliot Alderson, caused a flurry on Saturday with a series of tweets saying the Modi app was sending personal user data to a third-party domain that was traced to an American company."Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India's Prime Minister. When you sign up for my official App, I give all your data to my friends in American companies," wrote opposition Congress Party Chief Rahul Gandhi in a Twitter message on Sunday.The BJP responded on Twitter, saying Gandhi was trying to divert attention. The BJP has accused the Congress of engaging Cambridge Analytica in India, a charge the opposition party has denied.Alderson, who initially pointed out that the Modi app was sharing data with a third party without the consent of users, earlier on Sunday posted a new tweet saying the app had "quietly" updated its privacy policy after his previous tweets.Reuters could not independently verify Alderson's claims.Modi has not commented on the issue.(Reporting by Devidutta Tripathy and Euan Rocha; Editing by Nick Macfie)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:26 A.M. E.D.T.
AUCKLAND —  England need to learn some lessons, and fast, if they are to salvage a drawn two-test series against New Zealand after they emphatically lost the opener by an innings and 49 runs on Monday, captain Joe Root has said.The visitors were dismissed for 320 early in the final session under lights on the final day of the day-night match at Eden Park, giving New Zealand only their 10th test victory against England.While rain forced the game into the final day, Root's side were undone when they were destroyed by a superb display of swing and seam bowling by Trent Boult and Tim Southee in the first 90 minutes and skittled out for a measly 58.Root's batsmen were crease-bound in the first innings and seemingly unable to get their feet moving against the ball.Advertisement"We weren't good enough, simple as that really," Root told reporters. "It's really difficult to get back into a test match after such a poor start.Advertisement"We have to learn some lessons quickly... and we know that we have to adapt better."England did appear to adapt in the second innings, with their application far better as they were content to bat time rather than look to score.They lost wickets, however, at crucial times, with three of their second innings wickets falling in the final overs of sessions, which New Zealand captain Kane Williamson said had given his bowlers a boost.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.England have failed to win a test away from home since they beat Bangladesh by 22 runs in Chittagong in October 2016 and have lost 10 of their last 12 tests overseas, including 4-0 series defeats to India and Australia.Root, however, said the second innings performance had showed the team were still fighting hard to turn that series of defeats around."I thought the character of the dressing room and the efforts today were fantastic," Root added."You go into a day like today and ask the guys to show how much it means to them to play for England and it was an example of the guys' determination to represent the country."I think we can take a lot from the second innings and make sure that we are better."The second test, a traditional red-ball match, is at Hagley Oval in Christchurch from March 30-April 3.(Reporting by Greg Stutchbury in Wellington; Editing by John O'Brien)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 24, 2018, 1:53 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  The semi-government agency behind India's national identity card project on Saturday denied a report by news website ZDNet that the program has been hit by another security lapse that allows access to private information.ZDNet reported that a data leak on a system run by a state-owned utility company, which it did not name, could allow access to private information of holders of the biometric "Aadhaar" ID cards, exposing their names, their unique 12-digit identity numbers, and their bank details.But the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), which runs the Aadhaar program, said "there is no truth in this story" and that they were "contemplating legal action against ZDNet".ZDNet could not immediately be contacted for comment on the UIDAI's response."There has been absolutely no breach of UIDAI’s Aadhaar database. Aadhaar remains safe and secure," the agency said in a statement late on Saturday.Advertisement"Even if the claim purported in the story were taken as true, it would raise security concerns on database of that utility company and has nothing to do with the security of UIDAI’s Aadhaar database," it said.AdvertisementMORE THAN BILLION USERSZDNet had reported that even though the security lapse had been flagged to some government agencies over a period of time, it has yet to be fixed. It said it was withholding the name of the utility and other details.Karan Saini, a New Delhi-based security researcher, said that anyone with an Aadhaar number was affected."This is a security lapse. You don't have to be a consumer to access these details. You just need the Uniform Resource Locator where the Application Programming Interface is located. These can be found in less than 20 minutes," Saini told Reuters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In recent months researchers and journalists who have identified loopholes in the identity project have said they have been slapped with criminal cases or harassed by government agencies because of their work.Aadhaar, a biometric identification card with over 1.1 billion users, is the world's biggest database.But it has been facing increased scrutiny over privacy concerns following several instances of breaches and misuse.Last Thursday, the CEO of the UIDAI said the biometric data attached to each Aadhaar was safe from hacking as the storage facility was not connected to the internet."Each Aadhaar biometric is encrypted by a 2048-key combination and to decode it, the best and fastest computer of our era will take the age of the universe just to hack into one card's biometric details," Ajay Bhushan Pandey said.(Reporting by Malini Menon; Writing by Malini Menon and Krishna N. Das; Editing by Andrew Bolton)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PRIYA KRISHNAMARCH 6, 2018
BUENA PARK, Calif. — The restaurants along Beach Boulevard, a dusty stretch in this Orange County suburb, are primarily known for their larger-than-life aesthetic: the immense gray fortress encasing Medieval Times, the 18th-century Spanish galleon inside Pirate’s Dinner Adventure, and the lanky neon guitar neck standing tall next to Rock & Brews.So it’s not all that remarkable that an Indian restaurant sits within a four-level, sandy pink Mission-style villa that used to be a Ripley’s Believe It or Not! museum.What is surprising is that this imposing building — its entrance presided over by a statue of Buddha left from a previous incarnation — has been chosen to house the first American restaurant from Sanjeev Kapoor, the most famous chef in India. Mr. Kapoor runs his own 24-hour food channel, hosted one of the longest-running cooking shows in Asia and oversees a multimillion-dollar empire complete with restaurant franchises, cookbooks and endorsement deals.Even more unusual are the people Mr. Kapoor has chosen to run this place, called the Yellow Chilli: Satvinder Ghotra and Kamal Kaur, a husband-and-wife team who have never opened or run a restaurant.AdvertisementThe couple say they have invested all their money in the business, quit their day jobs and dream of opening Kapoor restaurants on the Las Vegas Strip and in Los Angeles International Airport.Why have they taken on such an enormous risk? Simple. They’re the celebrity chef’s biggest fans.“Sanjeev Kapoor is the No. 1 chef in India,” Mr. Ghotra declared. “This isn’t just a side business. We are 100 percent devoted.”AdvertisementOn a recent Sunday afternoon, Mr. Ghotra, 46, and Ms. Kaur, 45, hurried into the restaurant, which has been in soft-opening mode since August and will officially open this spring. They had parked their olive Maserati Levante so it stretched over two handicapped spots.Ms. Kaur, who speaks rapidly and mainly in superlatives, was talking about getting her hair colored at the salon, while Mr. Ghotra, the more subdued, data-minded half of the pair, quietly organized the business cards at the host stand.They ushered their two children, ages 9 and 10, into the back office, and switched the seven television screens around the restaurant to Food Food, Mr. Kapoor’s 24-hour television channel. Both Ms. Kaur and Mr. Ghotra have been watching his shows for years.“Everything I learned — Indian food, Indian-Chinese, Indian-Thai — he taught me,” Ms. Kaur said, pointing to one of the TVs. “It’s like he’s part of the family right now!”“Khana Khazana,” Mr. Kapoor’s most famous show (the title means “Food Treasure”), inspired Mr. Ghotra to start cooking as a teenager. He earned a master’s degree in travel and tourism at Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya, a university in Indore, but after marrying Ms. Kaur and immigrating to the United States in 1998, he wound up in sales at the stone company MS International. Ms. Kaur, who received an M.B.A. from Savitribai Phule Pune University, was working in marketing for a TV channel called PTC Punjabi.In early 2015, Ms. Kaur connected on Facebook with an old broadcasting colleague, Satyaki Mukherjee, who manages franchising for Mr. Kapoor. Mr. Mukherjee mentioned that the chef was interested in entering the American market with his midpriced, family-friendly franchise, the Yellow Chilli.Advertisement“I started thinking about how in Southern California, when Indian professionals or family come in from India, they want to eat Indian food, but there’s not a nice place to take them,” Ms. Kaur recalled. Seeing the potential in opening a restaurant with Mr. Kapoor’s name attached, the couple applied to become full-time franchisees.That November, they flew to Mumbai to meet with Mr. Kapoor and his team. The first time Ms. Kaur shook hands with the famous chef, she said, “it was the same feeling I got when Michael Jackson came to Mumbai.”In a recent interview, Mr. Kapoor, 53, said he had been approached over the years by individuals interested in opening his restaurants in America, but most were just fans, with little sense for the realities of running a business.“Being a fan is actually a negative for me, because those people think that when you sign up with me, people will come to the restaurant just because of my name,” he said. “When I meet with people, I paint a pretty poor picture. I ask them, ‘When everyone else is having fun, are you O.K. working even on Christmas, Holi, Diwali?’”Mr. Ghotra and Ms. Kaur were different, he said. They were unfazed by the challenge.“Unfazed is an understatement,” Mr. Kapoor said. “They were mad. But we need mad people. We need that kind of passion. Opening a restaurant is a bigger commitment than getting married. I could tell what this restaurant meant to them. And they could eat well.”Each of the 45 Yellow Chilli locations worldwide, including branches in Oman and Canada, is designed to look more or less the same on the inside. The Buena Park interior is stripped-down and neutral-toned, more contemporary and minimalist than colorful and Indian-inspired. Inside the entrance is a high-contrast black-and-white image of Mr. Kapoor.The menu is dominated by hearty north Indian dishes that are signatures of Mr. Kapoor, like the rich lentil stew Lalla Mussa Dal, and Shaam Savera, spinach-coated cheese dumplings submerged in a thick tomato gravy. Mr. Ghotra and Ms. Kaur hired all of the restaurant’s kitchen staff themselves, and then the corporate chef for Mr. Kapoor’s company, Pradipto Das, flew in to help with menu development and training.But the couple have their own ideas about how best to appeal to the American market.First, they’re looking to target only Indian-Americans, who may be more familiar with the chef. “I don’t want to run after any other crowd,” Mr. Ghotra said. “This brand is so deep in Indian minds. But for non-Indians who don’t know him, it will take a couple of years to cultivate that brand.”AdvertisementBuena Park attracts hordes of tourists to attractions like Knott’s Berry Farm, but the couple plan instead to appeal to the large Indian populations in nearby cities like Irvine and Artesia. “If 5,000 people come once a month and spend $25, that is our break-even,” Ms. Kaur said.The restaurant will participate in South Asian wedding expos, local festivals surrounding Indian holidays like Holi and Diwali, and events for groups of South Asian college students. For the grand opening, Ms. Kaur hopes to invite Indian-Americans in the area for two days of ticketed dinners and cooking demonstrations featuring Mr. Kapoor, who will fly in for the occasion.The couple are also looking into turning the restaurant’s adjacent banquet hall — a sprawling space with disco balls, flashy chandeliers and shiny, pearl-white wallpaper — into a club for young Indian-Americans. The restaurant hosted a New Year’s Eve party; the 350 tickets, priced from $100 to $125, sold out two weeks in advance.They are thinking about painting the exterior white, to make it stand out more among the other flamboyant attractions in the area. To lend a more high-end feel, they’ve been testing a valet parking service, even though the restaurant has its own 66-car lot.“People started complaining, saying, ‘How could you have so much parking, and then I have to pay for it?’” Mr. Ghotra said. “But we are just trying to create a certain experience.”Mr. Ghotra and Ms. Kaur say they have sunk almost $1 million into the space. “We sold our house and a few other possessions,” Ms. Kaur said. “We told the kids, ‘Your college money is in there.’”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In addition to overhead costs, they pay a franchise fee and monthly royalties to Mr. Kapoor’s company. “People said, ‘You could open a restaurant with $200,000 — why invest close to a million?’” Mr. Ghotra said. “It’s because we wanted to create a brand.”Neither sees this investment as a gamble.“Everybody at some point in time is connected to Sanjeev Kapoor,” Ms. Kaur said. “They see him on YouTube, they read the books. It’s a safe bet. You don’t have to educate people. A risk is when you put in a million dollars and don’t get it ever. We know we will get our million, and with those intangible benefits attached.”By “intangible benefits,” Ms. Kaur was referring to the celebrity that she believes she and her husband have attained ever since they started associating with Mr. Kapoor.“In my M.B.A. WhatsApp group, I am the star,” she said. “We just want to be recognized. We want to make enough Benjamins, but if you are not recognized, what the heck?”AdvertisementThe couple name-dropped some of their most recent restaurant guests, including the mayor of Artesia, Ali Sajjad Taj, and the owner of MS International, Mr. Ghotra’s former employer, Manu Shah. “He is a billionaire!” Mr. Ghotra said of Mr. Shah. “He wanted to take a picture with us. All the big shots in the area want to shake hands with us.”Ms. Kaur exclaimed, “We can go down in Wikipedia as the guys who got Sanjeev Kapoor to America!”While Yellow Chilli has been in soft-opening mode, locals have slowly been filtering in, curious to try the restaurant when they see the Sanjeev Kapoor connection.Tushar Sobti used to frequent the Yellow Chilli in Jalandhar, where he grew up. He was excited to try the Buena Park location, but ultimately felt that some of the dishes fell short. “Have a spoonful of Lalla Mussa Dal in India, and have a spoon of it here. It’s just different,” he said. “I can’t explain it. It’s more flavorful in India.”“A lot more flavorful,” added another young customer, Ruchika Sinha, who had eaten at a different Yellow Chilli in India.But on hearing about the grand opening event featuring Mr. Kapoor, Ms. Sinha’s eyes lit up. “Really? He’s coming here?” she asked. “Maybe I’ll stop by.”Kamal Singh, who runs India House, a Buena Park restaurant started by his parents, said that even though there is a lot of buzz around the Yellow Chilli, “what separates a franchise and a family-run restaurant is personal connections: Those will always win in the long term.”He said it could be difficult for the Yellow Chilli to resonate deeply in the community, because with a franchise “there is always an agenda to just make more money.”AdvertisementMr. Ghotra and Ms. Kaur envision turning the Yellow Chilli into an American chain — “the Indian answer to Olive Garden: authentic Indian food for the middle class,” Mr. Ghotra said. They would also like to open branches of Mr. Kapoor’s fast-casual chain, the Yellow Chilli Express, in the Los Angeles airport and local strip malls.Someday, they said, they’ll bring Mr. Kapoor’s fine dining restaurant, Signature by Sanjeev Kapoor, to the Las Vegas Strip. “I’d love to open at Mandalay Bay, or the Wynn, or the Cosmopolitan — anything central and modern,” Mr. Ghotra said. “Maybe the Trump hotel?”Ms. Kaur cut in: “That’s vetoed.”The two think frequently about what they will do when they make their first million from the restaurant: They’ll finally take down that Buddha statue (they’re too superstitious to do so right now), buy an expensive house in the Hollywood Hills and open a Hard Rock Cafe-style restaurant for Bollywood movies.“It’s all thanks to God,” Ms. Kaur said, before quickly correcting herself. “I mean, thanks to Sanjeev Kapoor.”Recipe: Lalla Mussa DalFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on March 7, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Fans of a Chef Go All In.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Brad PlumerWASHINGTON — If the world wants to avoid drastic global warming this century, we’ll need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions sharply in the years ahead.For now, however, we’re still moving in the opposite direction: Carbon dioxide emissions from the use of coal, oil and natural gas increased 1.4 percent globally in 2017 after holding steady for the previous three years, the International Energy Agency reported on Thursday. That’s the equivalent of adding 170 million new cars to the road worldwide.The energy agency, which called the findings “a strong warning for global efforts to combat climate change,” detailed several big reasons CO₂ emissions are increasing again. Here’s a look at the main ones:Roughly two-thirds of last year’s emissions increase came from Asia, where fast-growing countries like China, India and Indonesia continue to rely heavily on fossil fuels as they lift themselves out of poverty.China, which is responsible for one-quarter of the world’s industrial greenhouse gases, saw its emissions rise 1.7 percent in 2017, fueled by rapid economic growth and an increase in oil and natural gas use. The rest of developing Asia, including India and Indonesia, saw their overall emissions increase 3 percent.That jump in Asian emissions overshadowed cuts made elsewhere in the world: The United States, for instance, reduced its emissions 0.5 percent last year, driven by the growing deployment of renewable energy. Britain, Mexico and Japan also managed to cut their emissions. (The European Union over all, by contrast, saw emissions rise 1.5 percent.)Renewable energy — including wind, solar and hydropower — was the fastest-growing energy source worldwide in 2017. China alone installed as many solar panels last year as the entire solar capacity of France and Germany combined. And the prices for renewable technologies keep falling.The catch? Last year’s “unprecedented” growth in renewables, the I.E.A. said, satisfied only about one-quarter of the increase in global energy demand as the world’s economy boomed. Fossil fuels supplied the rest. “The overall share of fossil fuels in global energy demand in 2017 remained at 81 percent,” the agency’s report said, “a level that has remained stable for more than three decades despite strong growth in renewables.”If the world wants to cut emissions quickly and meet the climate goals laid out in the Paris Agreement, the I.E.A. said, clean energy will need to grow about five times as fast each year between now and 2040 as it did last year.Over the past few years, coal demand has plummeted around the world as countries like the United States and China shift away from the most carbon-intensive of all fossil fuels. China, for instance, has been pushing to phase out coal use in residential heating in order to clean up the severe air pollution that is choking its cities.But coal use rebounded slightly in 2017, rising by 1 percent, driven in part by an increase in coal-fired power in Southeast Asia. A particularly hot summer in China also led the country to run its existing coal plants more often to power air conditioning. Yet despite last year’s uptick, there are signs that coal is falling out of favor worldwide. India’s coal demand is growing at a slower pace than it did over the previous decade, as the country turns to solar power and other clean energy sources. And, the I.E.A. said, both China’s and the world’s coal consumption remains below the 2014 peak.Demand for oil rose 1.6 percent last year, much faster than the average annual pace over the previous decade. As oil prices have declined, more people in the United States and Europe are buying larger S.U.V.s, pushing up transportation emissions further.The I.E.A. noted that electric cars, which do not use oil, are quickly making inroads in countries like China, as a result of aggressive government mandates and falling battery prices. “For now, however, the strong growth in electric-car sales remains too small to make a dent in oil demand growth,” the agency said.In addition to switching to cleaner sources of energy, countries can also curb their emissions by improving the energy efficiency of their factories and homes and vehicles, through policies like building codes and fuel-economy standards.On this score, however, the I.E.A. had bad news: In 2017, the energy intensity of the global economy — a measure of efficiency — improved by just 1.7 percent, a slower pace than in each of the previous three years. The agency noted that many countries appear to be easing up on government policies to improve energy efficiency.Brad Plumer is a reporter covering climate change, energy policy and other environmental issues for The Times's climate team.  @bradplumerAdvertisementBy DAMIEN CAVEMARCH 22, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.______A few months ago, my wife and I were in an Uber in Melbourne talking to a driver from India who had a Ph.D in literature. He wrote essays for Indian media outlets but mostly drove, he said, in part because he had a hard time finding a teaching or writing job in Australia.Ever since, I’ve wondered how many more Uber drivers were like him — foreign, skilled but stuck in the gig or service economy.I thought of this again last week, as I reported a story about Ola, the Indian ride-sharing company that just started offering service in Perth and Sydney. Ola has not explicitly marketed itself to drivers or riders of Indian origin, but the company does expect that the awareness of its brand among Indians will help — and that idea prompted me to do some more digging.AdvertisementThe Indian community in Australia doesn’t get much attention from local media or politics, but it’s a large group: About 1.9 percent of Australia’s population of 24 million was born in India, according to 2016 census data; many more are the children of Indian immigrants.AdvertisementSheba Nandkeolyar, the national chairwoman of the Australia India Business Council and the founder of a multicultural marketing company in Sydney, said the Indian diaspora has been growing in leaps and bounds all over Australia, with a wide range of workplace experiences.“There’s one segment of the Indian diaspora who are migrating and coming in to good jobs — those are in IT, finance, or science and STEM roles,” she said. “But there is also a group which is finding it hard to break through, especially in more general professions.”A 2016 study from Juliet Pietsch, a professor of politics and international relations at Australian National University, found that many Asian immigrants struggle to gain professional work and pay in Australia. Even those who are highly qualified and English-fluent permanent residents or Australian citizens tend to earn less than immigrants from Europe.Many of India’s high-achieving immigrants simply give up and start businesses of their own, said Ms. Nandkeolyar. Others join the sharing economy.The Uber driver we met in Melbourne didn’t seem to mind his fate. He said his children were both receiving university degrees in engineering and he figured they’d face fewer barriers.But will they?“My own research on this issue has shown evidence of structural discrimination in the work force,” Professor Pietsch told me.Skin color, accent, even just a name hinting at a nonwhite background can be an obstacle to professional advancement and political inclusion — that’s according to a growing body of research about race and immigration in Australia, Canada and the United States.AdvertisementBut what I’d like to know is: How is this experience lived out day to day?Australia often holds itself up as a model of multiculturalism and skilled immigration, but tensions are growing. The country is once again in the middle of a major debate about immigration and population growth.I’m interested in getting beyond the politics, into people’s lives — to find out more about the hurdles, challenges and successes that come with Australia’s ambitious effort to forge a more diverse and international nation.Where is integration working, where is it failing? What do you see in your daily life that you think helps or hurts the creation of a “new Australia”?We’ll be exploring this issue in a variety of ways, but we’re always eager for more input. So if you’ve had an experience related to this issue, or have a tip for a story about inclusion or exclusion in multicultural Australian life, email nytaustralia@nytimes.com.Oh, and one more thing: If you’re looking for more about Nippers, after my newsletter last week, here’s our roundup of reader contributions in this week’s Australia Diary.Thank you for all the Nippers support!Now for the week’s stories, and a recommendation that might make you hungry.What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.______In his first statements since it was revealed that a political data firm obtained the data of 50 million Facebook users, Mark Zuckerberg said that if the site can’t protect information, “then we don’t deserve to serve you.”A whole lot of people have come to that exact same conclusion — they are leaving Facebook in droves. But it may not be as easy as it looks.AdvertisementAnd if you’re late to this whole Facebook mess, here’s the story that got it started.______It’s a little weird the way that augmented reality places 3D objects right in front of you. But I did it anyway.Here’s how you can do it too (with your phone).______For Fun• Where Do Birds Flock Together? Australians Are Mailing In Feathers to Help Find Out: Kate Brandis has enlisted the public to help her track elusive waterfowl as wetlands disappear.• Introducing a Major New Voice in Comedy (Who Also Attacks Comedy): The Australian stand-up Hannah Gadsby examines a culture that excuses abuse and takes on comedy’s pieties. • Mesmerizing Thai Boat Noodles in a Melbourne Parking Garage: Soi 38 is a colorful nook of a restaurant churning out classic Thai street food.• The Nippers Way of Life: Young and old share their junior lifesaving experiences, from early morning swims to deepwater board races — and for one nipper, a bit of misery.Australia and the World• China Refuses Entry to Australian Critic of Communist Party: The brief detention of a Chinese-born Australian signals that China is paying close attention to the intensifying debate about its influence in Australian politics.• Cambodia’s Ruler Dared Australians to Burn His Effigy, So They Did: Protesters say the visit by the strongman Hun Sen ignores his attacks on free speech and his attempts to influence diaspora communities.• Minneapolis Officer Charged With Murder in Australian Woman’s Death: The shooting in July of Justine Damond by Officer Mohamed Noor renewed questions about police conduct.AdvertisementNews• Daphne the Missing Duck May Be Finding Her Way Home: A beloved member of a swimming club who disappeared off the Western Australia coast has been found at sea. • James Packer, Australian Billionaire, Resigns From Casino Company: Mr. Packer, one of Australia’s richest men, recently found himself embroiled in a corruption scandal involving Israel’s prime minister.• Devastating Australia Bush Fire Destroys Scores of Homes: Hundreds of residents were evacuated as fires in southern New South Wales spread to a town of 1,600 people.• Australian Official Calls for Emergency Visas for White South African Farmers: South Africa responded angrily to comments by Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton, who said white South African farmers deserved protection in a “civilized country.” ______• What the West Doesn’t Get About Xi Jinping Kevin Rudd asks: Why would China commit to a liberal world order that doesn’t reflect its own political values?• Can Australia Regulate Intra-Office Sex? Waleed Aly explores whether a sexual relationship between a minister and a staff member should become a firing offense.• Bigger Is Not Better for Ocean Conservation: Luiz A. Rocha explains how to protect the world’s oceans.______… And We RecommendWe’ve been watching “Ugly Delicious” on Netflix lately, which is chef David Chang’s new show exploring foods that are often taken for granted, from pizza to dumplings and tacos.In addition to the fresh approach — which includes swearing and hokey graphics, making it the antithesis of “Chef’s Table,” another Netflix foodie hit — it’s a really interesting examination of Asian-American culture, and what parts of that culture are so rarely represented on television.AdvertisementThe show gets props from me for pushing the identity conversation further, and for allowing a little messiness into the culinary doc genre.Damien Cave is the new Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 9:59 A.M. E.D.T.
COLOMBO —  Sri Lanka's Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe faces a no- confidence motion on Wednesday that could go down to the wire and lead to political instability in the island nation, even if the government manages to scrape a win.Wickremesinghe leads a national unity government in alliance with President Maithripala Sirisena's party, which has said it would vote against the prime minister, blaming him for failing to prevent an alleged scam in the bond market.The opposition, which swept local elections last month,  aims to drive a deeper wedge within the ruling coalition with the no-confidence motion and bring forward a national election due in 2020."There is common consensus in the party to vote in favour of the no-confidence motion," said Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, a minister of Sirisena's Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP).Advertisement"Clearly the SLFP is of the view that the prime minister should step down."Wickremesinghe has faced criticism for failing to deliver on economic growth which slumped to 3.1 percent last year, its worst pace since a recession in 2001. The rupee currency is hovering at a record low.AdvertisementThe government is also under pressure as it tries to manage China's expanding infrastructure push in Sri Lanka, located near key shipping lanes in the Indian Ocean, but which has raised fears that it could push the tiny country deep into debt.Wickremesinghe's United National Party-led coalition has 107 members in the 225-member parliament and, until now, the support of 42 members of the SLFP, which gave it a comfortable majority.But if the SLFP votes against the government, Wickremesinghe could lose his majority. He would then need the backing of minority parties in the opposition to stay in office.Eran Wickramaratne, the junior finance minister, said the UNP had asked for a quick vote "to end any uncertainty people will have in their minds" and hoped for a stronger government to emerge afterwards.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Political instability is weighing on the economy, he said."You are not going to get 6-percent-plus kind of growth because of the political issues. We will move into 4-percent-plus in 2018," he told Reuters.The yields on Sri Lanka’s benchmark bonds have risen 83 basis points since early this year, and the central bank chief has also warned of risks to economic growth from political instability.POPULISM WILL RISEShailesh Kumar, Asian director at consultancy Eurasia group, foresaw limited cooperation between the UNP and the SLFP after the no-confidence motion, even if the prime minister survived."This means there will be limited appetite for economic legislation and instead the two will likely indulge in populism to shore up their positions ahead of the 2020 elections," he told Reuters.AdvertisementForeign direct investments (FDI) doubled to $1.6 billion last year, but more than 40 percent of that was from China, for two key projects that have dragged on for more than a year.A trade pact signed with Singapore in January and expected free trade agreements with China and India later this year are seen boosting Sri Lanka's export revenue through new FDIs. But officials of the Board of Investment say investors have been waiting for clarity on the political front.(This version of the story corrects to read coalition in paragraph 8)(Additional reporting by Shihar Aneez; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan and Sanjeev Miglani and Richard Balmforth)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 11:07 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  Four times world champion Lewis Hamilton is Britain's sole representative on the Formula One starting grid this season but it may not be long before the Mercedes driver is joined by another.The F2 season that starts in Bahrain this weekend sees three of his compatriots, all official reserve drivers for Formula One teams, step up for what could be a springboard to a grand prix future.Two are team mates -- GP3 champion and Mercedes reserve George Russell lining up alongside Renault F1's Jack Aitken at ART -- while McLaren's rising star Lando Norris is in the Carlin cockpit.Winning the Formula Two title would put any one of them in a strong position for 2019.Norris, 18, is already seen as a future successor to double world champion Fernando Alonso or Belgian Stoffel Vandoorne at McLaren but may have to wait before such a scenario materializes.AdvertisementRussell, two years older, would be a strong candidate for Force India, should a vacancy arise at that Mercedes-powered team for whom he tested last year.AdvertisementAnd Aitken could have a shot should Spaniard Carlos Sainz be summoned back to Red Bull after what is currently only a loan year at Renault.Whatever the possibilities and permutations, there is plenty to play for."It's interesting that you’ve got this British talent coming through, and you’ve got so many reserve drivers in F2 this year," says Aitken, a 22-year-old Londoner with a Scottish father and South Korean mother.Runner-up to Russell in GP3 last season, and eager to turn the tables, Aitken recognized the dynamic within ART would be unusual."Mercedes will try to help George as much as possible, and therefore help the team, and Renault will do the same with me," said the Briton, who signed his FIA super-license only last week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."But you have to be careful because we are team mates and, especially with a new car, you have to work together and be quite coherent as a group and make sure that’s all going well."A string of champions from the series previously known as GP2 have gone on to Formula One including Hamilton who won in 2006 with ART, a year after 2016 F1 champion Nico Rosberg.Last year's Ferrari-backed F2 champion Charles Leclerc is now at Sauber while Williams' Russian rookie Sergey Sirotkin finished third in GP2 in 2016 before a year as Renault's reserve.The 2016 title was won by Frenchman Pierre Gasly, now with Toro Rosso, with Vandoorne triumphant in 2015 and Britain's Jolyon Palmer in 2014.Advertisement"Now the grid’s really strong but a lot of those are rookies, so anything’s up for grabs," said Aitken, who has both British and Korean flags on his overalls, car and helmet and also an alternative Korean name (Han Sae Yeong)."The hardest thing is getting used to pitstops and strategy because neither George or I have done any of that before. But in terms of just driving the car, it comes quite naturally and quite quickly."I think we’ll be up there...I don’t see any reason why we can’t win."(Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Toby Davis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 10:00 A.M. E.D.T.
JOHANNESBURG, April 3 —  South Africa exorcised a long-standing hoodoo when they completed a comprehensive 3-1 home test series victory over Australia on Tuesday, winning the battle on and off the pitch to cement their place as the world's number two side behind India.The success was their first at home against the Australians since 1970, although South Africa have claimed test series wins on their last three tours Down Under.The victory was secured with their biggest ever win by runs in tests, a 492-run humiliation of a scandal-hit Australia at the Wanderers.In what could be a watershed series, they have also caused a change in the way Australia will play their cricket in the future following the ball-tampering furore for which this series will long be remembered.Advertisement"This means a lot to us," South Africa captain Faf du Plessis told reporters. "And I believe this is the best we have been right through a series. Credit to everyone that played their part, at various times a lot of guys put their hands up.”AdvertisementSouth Africa’s dominance was built on their batsmen scoring five centuries to none for Australia while their bowlers took all 80 wickets available.“When you play against Australia you can’t ask for spicy wickets because their bowling attack is too good,” Du Plessis said.“In the first three tests there was reverse swing with incredible skill and pace that we had to front up to. This last test match there was a lot of seam movement.”South Africa also handled the pressure moments better than their visitors, though Du Plessis admits the controversy from one test to the next took its toll.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This series has been different to others because of all the stuff that was going on behind the scenes. Mentally, it does chip away at you. I felt before this test that our team was mentally flat and that was because there was a lot happening off the field.“It was new for a lot of guys, who could see just how draining test cricket is.”    Du Plessis added that while the team was sad to see the international retirement of stalwart seamer Morne Morkel, he feels their bowling stocks look good going forward.“There is good depth to our squad now. We are losing a big player in Morne, but I do think there are players who can step up and fill that role," the captain said.“You can see how much it means to him though, we have given him probably five or six send-offs this test match already. He is a really special guy on and off the field. He lives for the team. Young guys like ‘KG’ (Rabada) would have learnt a lot from his work ethic.”AdvertisementDu Plessis would also not be drawn on the future of other senior players, such as Hashim Amla, AB de Villiers and even himself.“All of us are in the same boat, we are just taking it series by series. If the hunger is still there then I will try and push it as long as I can.”(Reporting by Nick Said, editing by Ed Osmond)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 11:34 P.M. E.D.T.
SYDNEY —  Asian share markets faltered on Wednesday as simmering fears of a Sino-U.S. trade war overshadowed a bounce on Wall Street and left investors reluctant to take positions in anything.Safe-haven bonds, gold and the yen had run into selling as Wall Street benefited from bets that President Donald Trump's Twitter attacks on Amazon would not translate to actual policy.Yet trade worries weren't far away. Late on Tuesday, the Trump administration announced 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion of annual imports from China, covering around 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products.China's commerce ministry immediately warned it was preparing countermeasures of equal intensity."The largest concern remains whether this trade tension could further escalate, but history suggests negotiation is likely to follow," said Tai Hui, chief market strategist for Asia Pacific at J.P. Morgan Asset Management.Advertisement"That would provide some much needed short term relief to investors and allow them to focus back on economic and corporate fundamentals, which are still in decent shape."AdvertisementFor now, caution was the watchword and MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was wavering either side of flat.Japan's Nikkei added 0.1 percent in thin volumes, while South Korea eased 0.2 percent. EMini futures for the S&P 500 <ESc1> also dipped 0.2 percent.Wall Street had rallied on Tuesday as investors looked forward to earnings season and the S&P 500 pushed above a key support level. The Dow ended up 1.65 percent, while the S&P 500 gained 1.26 percent and the Nasdaq 1.04 percent.Amazon.com shares bounced 1.5 percent on reports the White House would not take action even as Trump continued his attacks on the online retailer.FACTORIES FADE A LITTLEThe swing in risk sentiment sucked some strength out of bonds, with yields on U.S. 10-year Treasury debt <US10YT=RR> up five basis points overnight to 2.78 percent.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Japanese yen also edged back, with the dollar rising to 106.50 <JPY=> from a low of 105.70 on Tuesday. The euro hovered at $1.2275 <EUR=>, after easing from a top of $1.2335 overnight, while the dollar index was a fraction lower at 90.109.The Canadian dollar <CAD=> held firm after hitting a nearly five-week high as investors grew more optimistic about the prospect of a NAFTA trade deal.Investors also seemed to be keeping their nerve on the global economic outlook after a host of manufacturing surveys (PMIs) showed some slowing, but from lofty levels in many regions.Advertisement"If global PMIs slow and avoid overheating concerns, that is good for risk appetite. If they slow for "the wrong reasons" like trade protectionism, that is much more worrying," said Deutsche Bank global strategist Alan Ruskin."The March data is at the most a very early warning shot for policymakers not to get too complacent on global growth resilience," he added.Trade wars were a particular concern for developing Asia where South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, China, Indonesia, and India reported a slowing in factory activity.In commodity markets, gold had steadied around $1,332.90 an ounce <XAU=>, having lost 0.6 percent overnight.Oil prices slipped with Brent crude futures <LCOc1> off 13 cents to $67.99 a barrel, while U.S. crude <CLc1> fell 11 cents to $63.40 a barrel.(Editing by Jacqueline Wong and Sam Holmes)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NICOLE PHILLIPMARCH 10, 2018
Watch our live chat with two women of color who were adopted by white parents: Margaret Pendergast, a in New York, was born in Honduras; Nicole Eigbrett, a legislative staffer in Massachusetts, was born in China.Our Facebook audience spoke up during a live conversation Wednesday with two women of color who were both adopted as infants by white families.Margaret Pendergast, who was born in Honduras, and Nicole Eigbrett, who was born in China, shared their stories with the hosts of our Race/NYT weekly chat, John Eligon and Rachel Swarns. The adoptees talked about the implications of transracial and transethnic adoption and their struggle to find themselves in the faces of their white families.“At this point, one thing I’m really advocating for is counseling and therapy from the moment the child is able to discuss these things, because I think it’s such an ongoing process of discovering their identity,” Ms. Eigbrett said to one viewer, after being asked to explain how the differences can affect an adoptee’s relationship with an adoptive family. “And I think these relationships are always going to be in flux no matter how much love there is.”Asked if there was any tension in her relationship with her parents, Ms. Pendergast echoed Ms. Eigbrett, saying: “There was no one around that looked like me. So who do I relate to?”AdvertisementThis Race/NYT chat was the second one in recent months featuring a transracial adoptee. In December, we featured a conversation between Angelle Smith and Amy Roost, two women who were adopted by the same white family. The family adopted Ms. Smith, a black woman, but gave up custody when the pressures of raising a black daughter grew heavy. Later they adopted Ms. Roost, who is white.Wednesday’s conversation focused on the experiences of transracial adoptees whose white families raised them to adulthood.AdvertisementThe stories resonated with many of our viewers, and comments flooded in. Some shared their own opinions and stories about being adopted across racial or ethnic lines.One viewer implored more minorities to adopt.“For those of you that have a problem with white adopting across racial lines, please step up. We desperately need black foster parents. And this isn’t ‘nonsense’ when children are growing up in orphanages and foster homes. It’s easy to criticize from the sidelines. It’s much harder to get in the fight.”—Shannan BurkeA commenter talked about her commitment to helping her soon-to-be-adopted daughter from India learn about her culture.“I am leaving in a few weeks to pick up our daughter from India. It’s so important to us to be open and talk about her Indian life. I know this is going to be a struggle, but I will make sure to talk about it.”—Annie DeWolfOthers stressed the importance of loving and supporting adopted children.“We are a white couple with two Guatemalan children. Love, acceptance and pushing to strive have been consistent for us. We talk about race and the differences, not trying to hide anything. Our oldest child is in denial. Our youngest is very aware and trying to discover her identity.”—Brian Glassman“I am adopted from Peru and had parents who were supportive and went through so rough times with me. As an adult and a mom now, I embrace the beauty of our family diversity and how unique and special our family is. My parents have always been so supportive and proactive about keeping us within both cultures and I love them for that.”Advertisement—Marisa MorrillA parent of adoptees said their family talks openly about racism.“My children are Indonesian and we talk openly about racial slurs particularly in the America of today. We also try to expose them to Indonesian issues and culture. It is hard, as we can’t afford to visit. As they get older people never take us as a family and stare at us, but we always talk about it.”—Carol A. HesslerOne mother explained how books by transracial adoptees helped her.“Before I adopted 15 years ago, I was a voracious reader of stories written by transracial adoptees. The parents so often made so many mistakes. I want to thank all of those authors. Their experiences and their willingness to share made me so aware and I hope, in turn, has made me a better mother.”—Leslie RaeThe Reader Center is one way we in the newsroom are trying to connect with you, by highlighting your perspectives and experiences and offering insight into how we work.Follow the Reader Center on Twitter: @ReaderCenter.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 8:12 P.M. E.D.T.
MANILA/KUALA LUMPUR —  The Philippines and Malaysia said on Monday they will look into whether Uber Technologies' [UBER.UL] move to sell its Southeast Asian business to ride-hailing rival Grab hinders competition, days after Singapore began a probe into the deal on similar concerns.The expanded scrutiny of the deal in Southeast Asia could pose a major hurdle to the U.S. firm's attempt to improve profitability by exiting its loss-making regional operation. It also comes as Grab is set to face tougher competition from Indonesian rival Go-Jek.In a rare move, Singapore last week proposed interim measures to require Uber and Grab to maintain their pre-transaction independent pricing until it completes a review of the deal, saying it had "reasonable grounds" to suspect that competition had been infringed."The Grab-Uber acquisition is likely to have a far-reaching impact on the riding public and the transportation services. As such, the PCC is looking at the deal closely," the Philippine Competition Commission (PCC) said in a statement.AdvertisementIt said the deal will put Grab in a virtual monopoly in the ride-sharing market, and its review will determine whether the transaction substantially reduces competition, adding it is meeting representatives of Grab and Uber on Monday.AdvertisementShould anti-competitive concerns arise, Uber and Grab may propose commitments to remedy. In the event they will not submit voluntarily, the commission could open a case that may block the deal, it said.Malaysia also said on Monday that it will monitor Grab for possible anti-competitive behaviour."We won't take it lightly. We will monitor this because it is still early days and we don't know what will happen next," said government minister Nancy Shukri, whose portfolio oversees the public transport licensing authority."We have stressed that if there is any anti-competitive behaviour, the Competition Act will come into force. We have spelt this out to them," Nancy said, referring to a meeting with Grab representatives last Monday.In Indonesia, the anti-monopoly agency said it can't say yet whether they will investigate the deal, as there are 30 days after the deal is finalised to assess it.ASSURANCES ON PRICINGUber and Grab announced the deal a week ago, marking the U.S. company's second retreat from an Asian market. It earlier sold off its operations in China.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Nancy said Grab, which is valued at about $6 billion, had offered assurances during their meeting that there would be no unfair pricing, nor would it increase its fares for now.After a costly market share battle in Southeast Asia, where Uber has invested $700 million, its move to exit the region is widely expected to give the U.S. firm more firepower to focus on other markets including India.But competition in the region is set to grow again, as Indonesia's Go-Jek plans to launch its first expansion to another country in the region in coming weeks, according to an internal company email seen by Reuters.AdvertisementSingapore's Straits Times reported on Monday Go-Jek plans to launch its services in Singapore, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam.Johannes Bernabe, PCC commissioner, told Reuters that Manila is processing at least three applications for ride-sharing services. It also caps the number of ride-sharing vehicles to 65,000 across all brands and reviews them every three months."This is a normal regulatory step in a deal of this size as part of Grab's overall strategy to cooperate with interested regulators," said Grab, which operates in 195 cities in eight Southeast Asian countries."We believe that the acquisition will add to, among others, the vibrant and competitive ride-hailing, delivery and transportation spaces, and does not lessen competition," it said.Grab said it did not intend to increase its base fares.(Reporting by Neil Jerome Morales and Joseph Sipalan; Additional reporting by Aradhana Aravindan; Writing by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman and Stephen Coates)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SARA ARIDIAPRIL 2, 2018
“King in the Wilderness” looks at a lesser-known side of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s life. And “The Good Karma Hospital” returns on Acorn TV. KING IN THE WILDERNESS (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO; also on HBO streaming platforms. As the country honors the legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 50 years after his assassination, this new documentary sheds light on the final chapters of his life. Two of Dr. King’s most notable accomplishments came with the passing of the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act in 1964 and 1965. Yet the period that followed found him castigated by longtime friends and allies as he focused on economic justice and vehemently opposed the Vietnam War. In an interview with The New York Times, the director Peter Kunhardt said that while researching Dr. King’s life, he realized that most accounts summarized his legacy with the “I Have a Dream” speech. He added: “It never went beyond that. So we were pleased to not deal with that aspect and look at the nightmare the dream turned into.”THE CROSSING 10 p.m. on ABC. Some elements of this pilot parallel real-life stories of refugees fleeing their homelands in recent years. After dozens of people wash up on a shore in a small fishing town, a man describes the war they fled as a holocaust. A daughter says her father offered all he had for someone to get her across a checkpoint. Yet 10 minutes into the episode, one survivor reveals that the conflict hasn’t happened yet, setting this sci-fi drama in motion. Steve Zahn plays Sheriff Jude Ellis, who’s tasked with unspooling the mystery with a Department of Homeland Security agent, Emma Ren (Sandrine Holt).WHEN GOD SLEEPS (2018) 10 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). In 2012, the Iranian musician Shahin Najafi released a satirical rap song that sparked outrage among the country’s hard-line clerics. Many called for his death, and an Islamist website placed a $100,000 bounty on his head. Directed by Till Schauder, “When God Sleeps” is an intimate portrayal of Mr. Najafi’s life in exile (he now lives in Germany) that looks at oppression and resilience in Iran.DR. STRANGELOVE OR: HOW I LEARNED TO STOP WORRYING AND LOVE THE BOMB (1964) on iTunes, Amazon, Starz and Sundance Now. If the prospect of nuclear war chills your bones, you may want to skip this dark Cold War satire. An out-of-control American general (Sterling Hayden) orders a nuclear attack on the Soviet Union, causing chaos and panic within the administration. Peter Sellers stars in three roles; George C. Scott plays the hawkish Gen. Buck Turgidson.THE GOOD KARMA HOSPITAL on Acorn TV. Amrita Acharia (“Game of Thrones”) returns as Dr. Ruby Walker in the second season of this British medical dramedy. A year after her move to India from Britain, Dr. Walker has settled into her new life and is gaining confidence at work. But she’s still put to the test by Dr. Lydia Fonseca (Amanda Redman) at the local hospital.A version of this schedule appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Monday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 9:14 A.M. E.D.T.
KABUL —  An exhibition that reproduces the precious treasures of Mughal art in their original setting in Kabul's Babur Garden opened this weekend, bringing a rare moment of cultural relief to a city pounded by war for decades."King Babur's Kabul: Cradle of the Mughal Empire" displays a selection of high quality reproductions of some of the masterpieces of the Timurid and Mughal periods from the mid-16th century, one of Central Asia's richest cultural eras.It follows a similar exhibition in December held in the historic citadel of the western Afghan city of Herat, at one time the seat of the powerful Timurid dynasty and one of the great centres of the Persian world.At the Kabul exhibition's launch on Saturday, Michael Barry, a world authority on Afghan art and culture who curated the exhibition reminisced about a visit he made to the city at the height of the brutal 1990s civil war.Advertisement"Here in the Bagh-e Babur, what we saw in 1994 was wreckage, broken trees, shells fired. The beautiful 17th century marble mosque here was full of bullet holes. All we saw was despair and ugliness."AdvertisementThe Bagh-e Babur or Babur's Garden, one of the oldest surviving Mughal gardens, was named after the first emperor of the Mughal dynasty, which came to rule over much of India in the following three centuries.Babur loved Kabul and was buried in the garden which he ordered to be created after he conquered the city in 1504. It was largely destroyed in the 1990s but was restored with the help of the Agha Khan Foundation in 2008.The garden remains a popular picnic spot with Kabul families but the artistic riches of the Mughal court have disappeared from the city, with not a single original painting from the period known to be left in Afghanistan.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Barry said he had formed the determination to bring not just humanitarian aid to Afghanistan but to help restore some of the cultural heritage lost to the country through years of war."In this garden, we will bring back the magnificent paintings which so influenced world civilization, back to the Afghans, right here in this historical environment," he said.Over the centuries, all of the originals have been dispersed outside Afghanistan and while their removal undoubtedly saved many precious art works from destruction, their loss has deprived Afghans of a central pillar of their cultural heritage.Using state-of-the-art printing techniques, dozens of miniatures have been reproduced on metal and put on display, showing a fabled world of poets, rulers, hunters and scenes of court life and making clear the considerable interplay that existed between European and Mughal art."Many of these disappeared from Afghanistan over 500 years ago, and even then only Shahs (kings) and Wazirs (ministers) and maybe senior scholars had an opportunity to see them," said Thomas Barfield, President of the American Institute of Afghan Studies, which oversaw the organisation of the exhibition."People may remember poetry but they cannot see the art."(Editing by Christian Schmollinger)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ANDREW R. CHOWMARCH 8, 2018
Celebrate International Women’s Day on Thursday with a superhero and an Olympian. And ponder the pitfalls of fame on “Atlanta.” JESSICA JONES on Netflix. They don’t make superheros much more cynical than Jessica Jones, who is played with sass, sarcasm and cutting bitterness by Krysten Ritter in this series. After playing an ensemble role in “Marvel’s The Defenders,” Ms. Ritter is back in the center of the action as Jessica hits an identity crisis and takes on a new investigation. The long shadow of Kilgrave, made into a terrifying villain by David Tennant, looms over it all.LADIES FIRST on Netflix. Deepika Kumari grew up in poverty in rural India, where social norms dictated that women remain in domestic life. Instead, she took up archery and discovered her extraordinary talent. In just three to four years she mastered the sport, eventually becoming the world’s top ranked archer at the age of 18 and appearing in the Olympics in London and Rio. This short documentary navigates her improbable rise and continued success (she’s still just 23).THE OATH on Crackle. O.K., so it turns out 50 Cent didn’t actually invest in Bitcoin. But he’s had real success in his television ventures, most notably as executive producer and star in the hit show “Power.” Now he’s throwing his weight behind “The Oath,” which explores police gangs. The show was created by Joe Halpin, a former undercover cop in the South Central section of Los Angeles. Sean Bean stars, bringing the same brooding intensity to street fights that he displayed in the fantasy worlds of “Lord of the Rings” and “Game of Thrones.”LIBERATION DAY on Sundance Now. It sounds like a tale straight from the Seth Rogen playbook, but it actually happened: In 2015, an art-rock band from Slovenia known for its fascist aesthetic played a concert in North Korea. This documentary shows the band, Laibach — which had previously been banned in Yugoslavia for its use of imagery associated with totalitarianism — preparing to perform in Pyongyang for the country’s 70th anniversary of liberation from Japanese colonial rule. In his review in The New York Times, Glenn Kenny described it as a “consistently understated chronicle of Westerners who are very carefully playing with fire.”ATLANTA 10 p.m. on FX. “Is this simply Season 2 of ‘Atlanta’? Is it an entirely new series?” James Poniewozik asked in his review in The Times, before concluding: “It is the same. And it is different. And that’s a wonderful, surreal, hilarious thing.” The second episode, “Sportin’ Waves,” focuses on Paper Boi (Brian Tyree Henry) and his realization that his fame comes with a lot of unwanted baggage, whether in interactions with corporate yes-men or with drug dealers. Earn spends an eventful day (and a lot of money) at the mall.A version of this schedule appears in print on March 8, 2018, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Thursday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:56 P.M. E.D.T.
CHRISTCHURCH —  Alastair Cook's third successive dismissal to New Zealand left-armer Trent Boult on Friday will undoubtedly raise questions as to whether the former captain may look to end his illustrious career.Cook again failed to move his feet to the moving ball in the first innings of the second test and Boult exploited it when the opener did not get forward to negate a delivery that pitched on middle and cannoned into off stump.Boult also had Cook caught behind the wicket twice in the first test, which New Zealand won by an innings and 49 runs to take a 1-0 lead in the two-match series.Despite having scored more than 12,000 test runs at an average of 46.02, the 33-year-old Cook has appeared woefully out of form since England arrived Down Under for their dual tours of Australia and New Zealand.AdvertisementHe managed 376 runs in nine innings during the 4-0 Ashes loss, but a massive unbeaten double century in the drawn fourth test in Melbourne was an outlier with six under-20 scores.AdvertisementIn New Zealand, he has scored nine runs in three innings and his decline in the Antipodes is symptomatic of his past 12 months.He scored a total of 899 runs in 20 innings in 2017 at a healthy average of 47.31. However, 487 of those runs were courtesy of 243 against West Indies at Edgbaston and his 244 not out against Australia.Taking those two innings out he averaged just 22.89.Cook shot down talk of retirement during the Ashes, particularly when he played his 150th test in the third game in Perth but said while he was working hard he recognised he was not scoring runs.He then broke his drought with the massive double century at the MCG, which in no small way ensured England were not swept 5-0 as the hosts batted out a draw.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Cook added 39 and 10 in the final test in Sydney before he returned home to England as the limited overs series began, then rejoined the team in New Zealand ahead of the tests.His struggles, however, have continued and he may be looking forward to getting home for some rest for a few weeks.England face Pakistan in May before they host India for five tests, three one-day internationals and three Twenty20 matches from July.Whether Cook will be there is unlikely to be a drawn out affair, at least if he has a say in the matter.Advertisement"It does take a lot of effort to perform, playing for England," he told BT Sport before the Perth test last December."It's a huge amount of sacrifice to do and one day I might just wake up and say 'you know what, I'm done with it'."(Reporting by Greg Stutchbury in Wellington; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.The genetic mutation arose 7,300 years ago in just one person in West Africa, scientists reported on Thursday. Its advantage: a shield against rampant malaria.

 Carl Zimmer
 

MATTER
MARCH 8, 2018
Thousands of years ago, a special child was born in the Sahara. At the time, this was not a desert; it was a green belt of savannas, woodlands, lakes and rivers. Bands of hunter-gatherers thrived there, catching fish and spearing hippos.A genetic mutation had altered the child’s hemoglobin, the molecule in red blood cells that ferries oxygen through the body. It was not harmful; there are two copies of every gene, and the child’s other hemoglobin gene was normal. The child survived, had a family and passed down the mutation to future generations.As the greenery turned to desert, the descendants of the hunter-gatherers became cattle-herders and farmers, and moved to other parts of Africa. The mutation endured over generations, and for good reason. People who carried one mutated gene were protected against one of the biggest threats to humans in the region: malaria.There was just one problem with this genetic advantage: From time to time, two descendants of that child would meet and start a family. Some of their children inherited two copies of the mutant hemoglobin gene instead of one.AdvertisementThese children could no longer produce normal hemoglobin. As a result, their red cells became defective and clogged their blood vessels. The condition, now known as sickle cell anemia, leads to extreme pain, difficulty with breathing, kidney failure and even strokes.In early human societies, most children with sickle cell anemia likely died by age 5. Yet the protection afforded by a single copy of the sickle cell mutation against malaria kept fueling its spread.Today, over 250 generations later, the sickle cell mutation has been inherited by millions of people. While the majority of carriers live in Africa, many others live in southern Europe, the Near East and India. Those carriers have about 300,000 children each year with sickle cell anemia.How humans got the sickle cell mutation is a sprawling saga that emerges from new research carried out at the Center for Research on Genomics and Global Health, part of the National Institutes of Health, by Daniel Shriner, a staff scientist, and Charles N. Rotimi, the center’s director. Their study was published on Thursday in the American Journal of Human Genetics.Dr. Shriner and Dr. Rotimi analyzed the genomes of nearly 3,000 people to reconstruct the genetic history of the disease. They conclude that the mutation arose roughly 7,300 years ago in West Africa.AdvertisementLater, migrants spread the mutation across much of Africa and then to other parts of the world. Wherever people suffered from malaria, the protective gene thrived — but brought sickle cell anemia with it.Today, sickle cell anemia remains a heavy burden on public health. In many poor countries, most children with the disease still die young. In the United States, the average life span of sufferers has been extended into the early 40s.Dr. Rotimi said that an improved understanding of the history of sickle cell anemia could lead to better medical care. It might allow researchers to predict who will suffer severe symptoms and who will only experience mild ones.“It would definitely help physicians to treat patients at a global level,” he said.Doctors in the United States first noticed sickle cell anemia in the early 1900s. The disease got its name from the way it changed the shape of red blood cells from healthy disks to abnormal curves.Most cases turned up in African-Americans, doctors found. But 8 percent of African-Americans had at least some sickle-shaped blood cells, even though the vast majority had no symptoms at all.By 1950, researchers had resolved this paradox, discovering the difference between carrying one mutated copy of the hemoglobin gene and carrying two copies. By then it had also become clear that sickle cell anemia was not unique to the United States.In Africa, researchers found sickle-shaped red blood cells in people across a broad belt, from Nigeria in West Africa to Tanzania in the east. The cells also turned up at high rates in people in parts of the Near East and India, and in southern European countries such as Greece.Genetically speaking, this made no sense. Because inheriting two copies of the gene is so deadly, the mutation should have become rarer with passing generations, not more common.AdvertisementIn 1954, a South African-born geneticist named Anthony C. Allison observed that people in Uganda who carried a copy of the sickle cell mutation suffered fewer malaria infections than people with normal hemoglobin.Later research confirmed Dr. Allison’s finding. The sickle cell mutation seemed to defend against malaria by starving the single-celled parasite that causes the disease. The parasite feeds on hemoglobin, and so it’s possible that it can’t grow on the sickle cell version of the molecule.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Sickle cell is a rare example of human evolution where we have a good idea of what happened and why,” said Bridget Penman, a malaria expert at the University of Warwick in England.Early genetic studies suggested that five different kinds of DNA, known as haplotypes, surround the mutation. These are named for the places where they were most common: Arabian/Indian, Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic and Senegal.These haplotypes became important for diagnosing sickle cell anemia, because some appeared to cause more severe disease than others. But the haplotypes also gave scientists a chance to explore the history of the mutation.“It has been an open question as to whether the actual sickle cell mutation itself emerged several times or just once,” said Dr. Penman.Some researchers saw the five haplotypes as evidence that the mutation arose on five separate occasions in five different places. Other researchers thought it unlikely that genetic lightning could strike so many times.“We said, ‘How do we jump into this forty-year debate?’” said Dr. Rotimi.He and Dr. Shriner examined the genomes of 2,932 people from around the world. They found that 156 of the subjects — mostly from Africa, but also from Barbados, the United States, Colombia and Qatar — carried a copy of the sickle cell mutation.The researchers scanned the DNA surrounding the mutation in those people. While most of it was identical from person to person, in some spots it differed.AdvertisementCombining their findings, the researchers concluded that all 156 people inherited the same mutation from a single person who lived roughly 7,300 years ago. “This alone is a big contribution to our understanding,” said Dr. Penman.The new study also offers hints as to how the mutation spread to millions of descendants.The oldest version of the sickle cell mutation is found in people from western and central Africa. They may have inherited it from an ancestor in the green Sahara.The mutation might have spread to other parts of Africa with the expansion of a people called the Bantu. Arising about 5,000 years ago around what is now Cameroon and Nigeria, they converted woodlands to farm fields on a massive scale.As they cleared land for agriculture, they may have promoted the spread of malaria by mosquitoes. The insects thrived by laying eggs in standing water around the farms and feeding on the growing population of farmers. The intensification of malaria in human populations may also have accelerated the spread of the protective sickle cell mutation.Over the next few thousand years, the Bantu carried the mutation across much of eastern, central and southern Africa, Dr. Shriner and Dr. Rotimi conclude. In places where malaria was prevalent, the mutation offered protection. But malaria is rarer in southern Africa, and there the sickle cell mutation became rarer, too.Later, the study suggests, Africans carried the mutation to other parts of the world. Waves of migrants made their way to the Near East. As people from different ancestries interbred, the mutation made its way further afield, into Europe and India.Some West Africans captured in the slave trade brought the sickle cell mutation to the Americas. But in places like the United States, where malaria was uncommon or nonexistent, the mutation offered less of an evolutionary advantage. As a result, African-Americans have a lower rate of sickle cell anemia than Africans today.Frederick B. Piel, an epidemiologist at Imperial College London, said he looked forward to bigger genome-based studies on the sickle cell mutation. It remains to be seen if these patterns can be found in thousands of carriers, instead of just 156, he said.Dr. Penman said that scientists also should study the different genetic variations identified in the new research. These may help explain why the sickle cell mutation leads to deadly symptoms in some people and only mild ones in others — something that scientists still can’t explain.Advertisement“This knowledge might inspire treatments in itself,” she said.Follow Carl Zimmer on Twitter @carlzimmerLike the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Sprawling Tale of a Cell Mutation.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:50 A.M. E.D.T.
LASHKAR GAH, Afghanistan —  Last week, the Afghan air force dropped its first laser-guided missile on a Taliban compound in Farah, the western Afghan province that has seen increasing fighting since the beginning of the year.The strike was an important milestone for the air force that underlined the growing importance of Farah, where hundreds of Taliban fighters have appeared since U.S.-backed Afghan forces stepped up operations in neighboring Helmand province.Over the past month, Taliban fighters have delivered a series of blows to government forces, helped, according to officials in the area, by neighboring Iran, which shares a long, porous border with the province.In one recent week, 180 soldiers and police were killed and hundreds wounded, according to a senior security official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. He said weekly death tolls for security forces in the province could reach as high as 250.AdvertisementThe provincial governor stepped down in January blaming political interference and civilians say the situation has become worse.Advertisement"We don't know the reason for the escalation of violence but I can say people are very scared and people in the city haven't slept in peace for months because of the fighting," said Abdullah, a shopkeeper in Farah city who said he now struggles to pay the rent on his shop."There are many people in the same situation. Thousands of young people are jobless, they either join the Taliban or cross the border to Iran to find a living."The problem underlines broader challenges facing the Kabul government and its U.S. allies, which last year announced a strategy to force the Taliban to the negotiating table through a mix of air strikes and stepped-up assistance to Afghan forces.This month, Afghan forces, backed by U.S. air power and close assistance from U.S. advisers, began a fresh operation dubbed Maiwand 12, to hit the Taliban in the insurgency hotspots of Marjah and Nad Ali districts of Helmand province.As operations have increased in Helmand, Western officials acknowledge that the pressure has pushed militants to Farah.'LOWERING OF AMBITION'But they say the insurgent focus on areas far from former battlegrounds where they had threatened the government show the problems they are facing.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Taliban offensives in these remote areas represent a significant lowering of ambition after their failure to take any provincial capitals in 2017," U.S. Navy Captain Tom Gresback, spokesman for the NATO-led Resolute Support coalition, said in an emailed statement.U.S. aircraft recently began bombing "drug factories" in opium-rich Helmand, but local leaders and officials in Kabul say the Taliban will fight hard to avoid losing control of smuggling routes, which bring in millions of dollars for the insurgency.Advertisement"There are hundreds of fighters who move back and forth between Farah and Helmand," the Afghan security official said."There is a route for smuggling opium and heroin from Helmand to Farah and finally Iran and the Taliban and the smugglers will always fight to protect. It is tens of millions of dollars."The U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, Robert Bass, told the BBC this month that Iran was providing logistical support to the Taliban, an accusation rejected by Tehran.Iran has always denied interfering in Afghanistan but  Afghan officials say it has multiple interests as well as its general hostility to the United States.They say it fears dams in Farah could slow the flow of water into Iran and has suspicions about a planned Turkmenistan–Afghanistan–Pakistan–India (TAPI) gas pipeline."There is only one reason behind this: Iran's interference which provides the insurgents weapons and tries to hamper the TAPI project," said provincial council member Dadullah Qaneh.(Additional reporting by Hamid Shalizi; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SAM ROBERTSMARCH 2, 2018
William Borders, a former foreign correspondent who rose to senior editing positions at The New York Times in a 46-year career there, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79.His son, William, said Mr. Borders’ body was discovered on Thursday. He said an autopsy would be performed.Fresh from Yale, Mr. Borders joined The Times as a copy boy in 1960. Promoted to reporter, he was assigned over the years to cover Nigeria, Canada, India and Britain before being appointed deputy foreign editor in 1982.A year later, he was named editor of The Week in Review (now called Sunday Review). He supervised that Sunday section until early 1989, when he was promoted by Max Frankel, the executive editor, to a senior editing position in charge of the newsroom in the evenings as it assembled the next morning’s newspaper. He oversaw the paper’s coverage in those hours, its newsprint presentation and, after the first edition went to press, follow-up planning for the next day.Advertisement“Besides practicing distinguished journalism as a reporter and editor,” Mr. Frankel said on Friday, “Bill provided a rare serenity in the midst of all the excitement and so helped us always to keep our cool and achieve our best.”Mr. Borders later held a top administrative position overseeing Times writing and editing standards, distributing virtually every day a detailed internal “post mortem” critique of what reporters and editors had done right and what they hadn’t. He also acted as a liaison with readers, fielding their questions, complaints and sometimes compliments. He retired in 2006.AdvertisementWilliam Alexander Borders was born on Jan. 11, 1939, in St. Louis to William Alexis Borders and the former Kate Thompson. His father was a banker and chairman of Ozark Airlines and, during World War II, the chief of staff to General George S. Patton.Mr. Borders’ marriage in 1967 to Barbara Burkham ended in divorce in 1984. He did not remarry.Besides his son, he is survived by three grandchildren; his sisters, Carolyn Danforth and Kate Moore; and a brother, John. Another brother, Guy, died in 1975.His son, who is known as Will, said his father’s death had been unexpected. He said Mr. Borders had been to the opera on Monday night and to an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting on Tuesday morning and was last heard from, by email, on Tuesday night.At Yale, Mr. Borders, an English major, worked on The Yale Daily News and graduated in 1960 with a bachelor of arts degree. He went on to spend his entire professional life at The Times, leaving only for a six-month stint in the Army Reserve.He advanced from copy boy to news scriptwriter for the Times’s radio station at the time, WQXR, and then to general assignment reporter before moving on to cover Connecticut.His first foreign assignment, in 1970, was to Lagos, Nigeria, where he began reporting on the famine in the secessionist state of Biafra during the Nigerian civil war. His initiation, he recalled, was being seized by the Nigerian Army and held captive for two days without food or water.Advertisement“Somehow I had been led to believe that the life of a foreign correspondent was a glamorous one — a lot of sitting around beach cabanas with Kings, Prime Minsters, Agas and other such folk and occasionally cabling New York for money,” Mr. Borders later wrote in Times Talk, an internal newsletter that was later discontinued.“But that was before my trip to Biafra,” he added, “and the image now seems very distant.”He sometimes doubled as a photographer, especially early in his career in remote places where fresh images were hard to come by.“The story gets better display if it has pictures,” he told The Lens blog on nytimes.com in 2009, “and I’d often be in places where there were no other pictures.”As a foreign correspondent he covered, among other events, a military coup in Afghanistan, India’s return to democracy and protests in London against nuclear weapons.His many articles included one in 1968 on the fierce ideological jockeying between William F. Buckley Jr. and the diplomat Cyrus R. Vance for a seat on the Yale Corporation; another, in 1978, was on the sharp break with modesty in India that catapulted a titillating, or scandalizing, kiss onto the Hindi motion picture screen.“He was one of the most considerate and thoughtful people I ever knew on the New York Times staff,” said Craig R. Whitney, a former foreign correspondent and editor who recruited Mr. Borders as his deputy. “He had a great sense of humor, was appreciative of good writing and did his best to make sure it survived the editing process.”A version of this article appears in print on March 3, 2018, on Page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: William Borders, 79, Former Times Reporter.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 24, 2018, 4:50 A.M. E.D.T.
MELBOURNE —  Formula One champion Lewis Hamilton roared to a record seventh pole at the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Saturday, blitzing the field in his Mercedes with a blazing lap at Albert Park.The Briton flew around the lakeside circuit in a record one minute, 21.164 seconds, with his final effort leaving a yawning gap of 0.664 seconds to Ferrari's second fastest Kimi Raikkonen.Sebastian Vettel was third fastest for Ferrari but Hamilton was in a class of his own and the Silver Arrows appear as dominant as ever as they bid to sweep the driver and constructors' titles for a fifth year running."That was intense. My heart's racing. I wish you could feel it right now," the 33-year-old Hamilton said after clambering  onto his car at the finish and pumping his fists.Advertisement"I'm so happy with that lap."Hamilton moved past the six poles his idol Ayrton Senna claimed in the Australian race with a furious pace that will leave the Ferrari and Red Bull teams scratching their heads.Advertisement"Obviously the gap's bigger than we want it to be," a subdued Vettel told reporters, looking ahead to Sunday's race."It depends how we get off the (start) line."Red Bull wunderkind Max Verstappen will line up alongside Vettel on the second row, with his fifth-fastest team mate Daniel Ricciardo set to start eighth after the home hope was handed a three-place grid penalty for an infringement during Friday practice.Still pumped at the post-qualifying news conference, Hamilton made a cheeky dig at fellow four-times champion Vettel when the German asked him what he was up to before Q3."I was waiting to put a good lap in and wipe the smile off your face," Hamilton said with a smirk.IMPROVED HAASThe Briton's brilliance was not matched by team mate Valtteri Bottas, who crashed early in the final shootout.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Finn, who had complained of balance problems during Q1, spun out at turn two and smashed  hard into a barrier, leaving his wrecked car and debris scattered all over the track.The red flag was waved as the television broadcast showed Mercedes boss Toto Wolff bowing his head in disappointment back in the team garage.Bottas, who will start in 10th, passed a medical check but it remains unclear how much of his car is salvageable.AdvertisementHaas confirmed themselves as the big improvers after positive winter testing, with drivers Kevin Magnussen and Romain Grosjean locking down the third row.Renault's Nico Hulkenberg took a spin into the gravel in Q2 but scraped through to the final session and will start seventh, his team mate Carlos Sainz two places behind.McLaren's hopes of a quick return to the top four with their new Renault engines proved overly ambitious, with twice champion Fernando Alonso and Stoffel Vandoorne shut out of the final session.Force India, fourth in the constructors' championship for the last two years, also have work to do after being knocked out during Q2.The championship's debutant drivers had an underwhelming session, with Sauber's Charles Leclerc and Williams' driver Sergey Sirotkin eliminated early.(Reporting by Ian Ransom; Editing by John O'Brien)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Trilobites By                     
DOUGLAS QUENQUA

MARCH 20, 2018
If Americans will eat a burger with no meat, will they drink a beer without hops?Charles Denby, a biochemist at the University of California, Berkeley, might have made it an option. Dr. Denby works in a lab that focuses on creating sustainable fuel out of plant molecules called terpenes. But he is also “a very enthusiastic home brewer,” he said. When he learned that some terpenes could, in small doses, impart the taste of hops — the small, green flowers that give beer its bitter, citrusy flavor — he decided to perform a side experiment.Dr. Denby and his colleagues infused brewer’s yeast with DNA from basil and mint, two plants that naturally produce the hop-flavored terpenes. The scientists were aiming to recreate the flavor of Cascade hops, which are most popular among craft brewers. They used the engineered yeast to brew a hops-free ale.There were some misfires.“The real challenge of the study was to produce strains that produce flavor molecules at the right concentrations without sacrificing other aspects of the brewing yeast performance,” said Dr. Denby.Once they perfected the formula, the tasting began.“To me, it tasted distinctively hoppy, and not unlike a beer hopped with Cascade,” said Dr. Denby.AdvertisementWanting a more objective analysis, the researchers asked Lagunitas Brewing Company in California to help them convene a double-blind taste test involving 40 participants. When asked to compare the brew’s hoppiness relative to traditionally brewed beers, the participants placed it above most of the competition. “We were really excited to see that some of our strains produced flavors that were hoppier than conventionally dry-hopped beers,” said Dr. Denby.AdvertisementBryan Donaldson, brewing innovation manager at Lagunitas, described it as having “flavor characteristics of Froot Loops and orange blossom without having undesirable off-flavors.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The findings, published Tuesday in Nature Communications, could contribute to a more sustainable future for beer production.Hops, one of beer’s four essential ingredients (the others are water, yeast and barley), come in dozens of varieties. Each bestows its own unique flavor. But they are a resource-intensive crop, requiring large amounts of water and sunlight to grow. The irrigation of hops in the United States alone requires more than 260 million gallons of water a year.This is a growing problem for breweries. Over the past two decades, as craft beer has boomed, Americans have developed a strong preference for hoppy brews like India pale ales, driving up demand for the crop. But farmers can’t keep up, and brewers are facing a hops shortage that some say is slowing the growth of the craft beer industry.Dr. Denby’s process, which he is hoping to commercialize, is a long way from putting hops farmers out of business. Still, he said, the technique could also help brewers produce a more consistent product. “Brewers we’ve spoken with say that ensuring consistency of hop flavor is a constant challenge” because potency can vary among farms and seasons, he said. “On the other hand, the conditions inside a fermentor can be easily controlled.”Either way, he said, “we’re really excited to make the brewing process more sustainable.”Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:51 A.M. E.D.T.
SEATTLE —  Take two tablets and a selfie? Your doctor's orders may one day include a smartphone video to make sure you took your medicine.Smartphone apps that monitor pill-taking are now available, and researchers are testing how well they work when medication matters. Experts praise the efficiency, but some say the technology raises privacy and data security concerns.Selfie medicine works like this: Open an app on your phone, show your pills, put them in your mouth and swallow. Don't forget to show your empty mouth to the camera to prove today's dose is on its way. Then upload the video proof to the clinic.Fans say the technology addresses a big problem: About half of drugs for chronic conditions aren't taken as prescribed because of cost, side effects or patient forgetfulness.AdvertisementWith treatment for opioid addiction, a skipped dose can mean a dangerous relapse. The National Institute on Drug Abuse is funding research to tailor a smartphone app for those patients and see if they'll use it.Advertisement"If we can keep patients engaged, we can keep them in treatment longer," said lead researcher Dr. Judith Tsui of the University of Washington School of Medicine in Seattle.The next phase of her research will compare a group of patients who use the monitoring app called emocha (ee-MOH-kuh) with those who don't to see if there's a difference.At one Tennessee treatment center, some patients with opioid addiction are already using the app to upload selfies of their daily dose and answer questions about how they're doing."Every time they sign on, it allows us to capture data. Are they having cravings? Suicidal tendencies?" said Scott Olson, CEO of Dallas-based Pathway Healthcare, which is trying the app at its Jackson, Tennessee, site. "Maybe a phone call from a counselor might make the difference between staying clean and a relapse."Olson thinks insurers will pay for the service with more evidence. For monitoring tuberculosis patients, health departments pay roughly $35 to $50 per patient each month for systems that include encrypted data storage. A small health department might pay as little as $500 a month.The idea of watching someone take their medicine — called directly observed therapy or DOT — has roots in tuberculosis where one person's forgetfulness can be serious for everyone. If patients don't take all their antibiotics, their infectious TB germs can get stronger, developing drug resistance and endangering the broader community.But taking a handful of pills daily for up to a year is difficult, so public health departments traditionally sent workers to people's homes and workplaces to watch them take their doses. Today, many TB patients prefer remote monitoring. Nurses like it too.AdvertisementNurse Peggy Cooley has used Skype for years to chat live with patients taking TB medicine."We can accomplish in a two-minute phone call something that might have taken an hour to do and most of that hour was in the car," said Cooley, who works for the Tacoma-Pierce County Health Department in Washington state.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The new uploaded selfies don't need an appointment. They are a daily routine for many tuberculosis patients in Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Houston, where savings on mileage and worker time amounted to $100,000 in a recent year.In Boston, Albuquerque and five other cities, researchers are studying whether the technology works for hepatitis C, a blood-borne virus that's surging among a new generation of injection drug users. New drugs for hepatitis C can cure, but they're expensive — $75,000 for a 12-week course of treatment — so insurers want to make sure patients take them."I think it holds a lot of promise," said researcher Dr. Alain Litwin of University of South Carolina School of Medicine, who's testing whether patients do better when someone watches them take their pills.What's next? An insurer in Maryland plans to use the technology in diabetes and high blood pressure to make sure Medicare and Medicaid patients take their medicine. Startups selling the apps say they could be used by faraway adult children monitoring an elderly parent's daily pill-taking.Experts worry about privacy, data security and penalties for poor pill-taking."That's the biggest ick factor," said Carolyn Neuhaus, a medical ethicist at the Hastings Center in New York. "You can imagine a program where benefits are tied to compliance and the insurer says, 'We won't pay for medication anymore unless you're taking it correctly.'"Globally, the rapid spread of smartphones creates an opportunity to eradicate TB, say the app developers.But eliminating TB may take simpler, cheaper technologies that can be scaled for millions of cases, said Dr. Daniel Chin, who leads TB efforts for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.The group supports research in China and India on two homegrown technologies. China's tool, about the size of a child's shoebox, reminds patients to take their pills and saves data for review. In India, the government favors a blister pill pack printed with phone numbers; a patient punches out a daily pill, then calls the revealed number.AdvertisementWorldwide, TB kills more than 1.6 million people annually, even though most deaths are preventable with treatment."If we are going to eliminate the disease, we need technology," said Dr. Richard Garfein of the University of California, San Diego School of Medicine, who helped develop one of the smartphone apps, SureAdhere.___Follow AP Medical Writer Carla K. Johnson on Twitter: @CarlaKJohnson___The Associated Press Health & Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By INYOUNG KANG and CHARLES McDERMIDMARCH 28, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. • Confident, reasonable — willing to bargain.That’s how North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, came across in his debut as a global statesman — and he did so with a dash of mystery. Here’s how the Chinese and North Korean news media portrayed the meeting with President Xi Jinping.Mr. Kim’s two-day visit — his first trip abroad since taking power — was a reminder of how much he has set the agenda in the North Korean nuclear crisis and, our correspondent writes, what a strong hand he has going into negotiations.President Trump was quick to chime in. He posted on Twitter that Mr. Xi told him that the meeting went “very well” and that Mr. Kim “looks forward to his meeting with me.”Advertisement_____• Beijing  adjusted the optics in other areas, too.One of China’s biggest financial crimes trials intensified when the founder of Anbang Insurance, Wu Xiaohui, pleaded not guilty to bilking investors out of more than $10 billion. The surprise plea raises the stakes in a prosecution meant to show Beijing’s determination to crack down on a recent borrowing binge.AdvertisementAnd in the coastal city of Xiamen, the Chinese authorities are trying to keep an underground bishop, Guo Xijin, out of the spotlight Easter weekend. Bishop Guo is at the center of a deal between Beijing and the Vatican — one that requires him to step aside in favor of a Communist Party-approved bishop.Above, Easter Mass at an unofficial church last year in Hebei Province._____• In Melbourne, the committal hearing of Cardinal George Pell is expected to adjourn today. The cardinal, the Catholic Church’s third highest-ranking priest, has been charged with committing “historical sexual offenses.”Courtroom drama on Wednesday: The magistrate asked Cardinal Pell’s lawyer to stop shouting at her, then she denied his request that she recuse herself from the case.Australia’s legal restrictions prevent the details of the Pell case from being made public. Once the hearing is adjourned, the magistrate is expected to announce her decision in mid-April._____• Myanmar has  a new president, but he’ll still be No. 2.U Win Myint, above, is a longtime loyalist to the country’s civilian leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, who is prohibited from serving as president. Mr. Win Myint is expected to do her bidding in the largely ceremonial post.Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace laureate, has been condemned globally for the Myanmar military’s ethnic cleansing of Rohingya Muslims._____• Is your waiter rude, or just French?Few cultural stereotypes are more pervasive than the surly French garçon. That perception was even used as a defense in a recent wrongful termination suit in Canada.AdvertisementA French waiter who was fired for being combative and aggressive said his former bosses were discriminating against his culture and heritage.• Last week, we wrote about income inequality, focusing on how black boys and white boys raised in wealthy U.S. families fare as adults. Here are income mobility charts for Asian-Americans and other groups, and a tool to make your own comparisons.• Facebook will introduce a centralized system for its users to control their privacy and security settings in response to an outcry over the way it has handled personal data.• An advertising group that gave Cambridge Analytica a gold prize for its work for the Trump campaign is now urging marketers to reconsider the ethics of how consumer information is collected. (It has yet to rescind the award.)• Israel’s national airline, El Al, is suing the Israeli government and Air India for discrimination after Air India became the first commercial airline permitted to fly over Saudi Arabia to and from Israel.• U.S. stocks were mixed. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Beijing and parts of northern China have been smothered by a sandstorm that pushed the air quality index to hazardous levels. Above, Harbin on Wednesday. [Reuters]• Atlanta’s city government has been brought to its knees since March 22 by a ransomware attack — one of the most sustained and consequential cyberattacks ever mounted against a major U.S. city. [The New York Times]• In Egypt, it’s $3 a vote. With no real challenger in this week’s election, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi is cajoling, coercing and even paying voters to ensure a credible turnout. [The New York Times]Advertisement• A children’s book listing Hitler as a “great leader” has been removed from an Indian publisher’s website. [The New York Times]• In Cambodia, Prime Minister Hun Sen boasted that when it comes to negotiating skills, no one “is better than me in the history of world leaders.” (In the same speech, he refused to negotiate with opposition lawmakers.) [The Phnom Penh Post]• Australia’s indigenous languages are all derived from one common tongue, a new study shows. [SBS]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Being a wedding guest can get pricey. Here’s how to cut costs.• Have a tiny apartment? These are the best cleaning tools for a small space.• Recipe of the day: If you’re looking for big flavor, a chicken tagine is just what you need.• As the art world’s center of gravity shifts toward Asia, Art Basel Hong Kong is a platform for sales and access to collectors. But for some local galleries, the price to participate is too high. Above, “Black Glass Sun” by Olafur Eliason.• She felt let down by the way some magazines portrayed Asian cuisines — so she started her own. As the publishing industry struggles, a new generation of food magazines is depicting stories that have been overlooked or misrepresented.• And in this week’s Australia Diary, a multicultural group of friends gathered for a Hindu celebration of an important milestone: the first home purchase.AdvertisementOn this day in 1961, the 23rd Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was approved by the required three-fourths of the states, giving Washingtonians the right to vote for president and vice president for the first time in more than 160 years.“The United States finally gave its capital the vote today,” The Times noted on its front page, with a hint of impatience.The amendment granted representation to the District of Columbia in the Electoral College, where states are given electors based on population. Although the District’s population (estimated at about 700,000 in 2017) is larger than that of some states, it is given no more electors than the least populous state, which is currently Wyoming.At the time, the push to give the vote to the District, with its large African-American population, became caught up in the civil rights movement. The amendment was opposed in the South, where Tennessee was the only state to ratify it.Democrats have since been able to count on the District’s three electoral votes, which have been cast for each of the party’s presidential candidates, starting with Lyndon Johnson in 1964.Although the District’s residents have a say at the White House, they lack a full voice in Congress, where their representative does not have full voting rights.Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BROOKS BARNESMARCH 14, 2018
The Walt Disney Company unveiled a sweeping reorganization on Wednesday, promoting a pair of executives and preparing the entertainment conglomerate for the eventual integration of assets from 21st Century Fox.Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, did not mention Disney’s pending $52.4 billion acquisition of various Fox businesses, which still must receive government approval, in Wednesday’s announcement. Instead, he described the new structure as “strategically positioning our businesses for the future.”Kevin Mayer, who has recently served as chief strategy officer, working on the purchases of Pixar, Marvel, Lucasfilm and BamTech, a streaming-focused company, was named chairman of a new Disney division: Direct-to-Consumer and International. The unit will be made up of Disney’s overseas media businesses; global advertising sales for ESPN, ABC and other channels; syndicated television sales; and — most important — a portfolio of subscription streaming services.Those services, designed to make Disney competitive with the likes of Netflix and Amazon, include ESPN Plus, which will be rolled out this spring. A second and still unnamed offering, built around the Disney, Marvel, Lucasfilm and Pixar brands, is expected late next year. Rounding out Disney’s streaming portfolio will be Hulu, an established service that focuses on older viewers with programming that includes ABC shows.Disney also promoted Robert Chapek, who has been chairman of Disney’s theme park division for the last three years. Mr. Chapek was named chairman of a new division called Parks, Experiences and Consumer Products, which adds merchandising, video games, book publishing and the Disney Store chain to his purview. Mr. Chapek was in charge of consumer products for Disney before he was promoted to theme park chairman in 2015.AdvertisementThe reorganization, which involves significant changes for every part of Disney except for the movie division, sets up a structure for Disney to absorb the Fox businesses. They include the Fox movie and television studio, a large portion of Hulu, 22 regional cable networks dedicated to sports, the FX and National Geographic channels, and stakes in two behemoth overseas TV service providers, Sky of Britain and Star of India.AdvertisementThe elevation of Mr. Mayer and Mr. Chapek was instantly read by some people in Hollywood as positioning either as a possible successor to Mr. Iger. Disney insiders cautioned against drawing that conclusion, however.To complete the Fox integration, Mr. Iger, 67, agreed to renew his contract for a fourth time, delaying retirement from July 2019 to the end of 2021. Rupert Murdoch, who controls 21st Century Fox, asked Mr. Iger to stay as a condition of the deal, which was valued at $66.1 billion including debt.As part of the restructuring, Andy Bird, the longtime chairman of Walt Disney International, is expected to leave the company. The management shuffling was announced a week after Disney named James Pitaro as president of ESPN. Mr. Pitaro previously oversaw consumer products.An earlier version of this article misstated the age of Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive. He is 67, not 66.A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Disney, Expecting Assets From Fox, Repositions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JEFF SHAINAPRIL 4, 2018
Though the Masters rarely lacks for intrigue, the weekly parade of top-class winners this spring has brought stars into alignment like few other years. And that’s before you consider the return of a certain once-dominant big cat on the prowl again.The wild card of wild cards, as most unpredictables aren’t in possession of four green jackets. But Woods, 42, hasn’t competed at Augusta National in three years, making a comeback after his fourth back surgery.He has played into Sunday contention at his last two stops. He couldn’t catch Paul Casey at the Valspar Championship, making par at the 72nd hole when a birdie would have forced a playoff, and he tied for fifth a week later at the Arnold Palmer Invitational. Woods can still be wayward off the tee, and he’ll need to get acquainted with Augusta’s greens again.Denied perhaps his best chance at Masters glory by last year’s untimely slip-and-fall on stairs, Johnson remains atop the world rankings but lacks the same momentum.AdvertisementThree consecutive victories powered the South Carolina native into Augusta a year ago. He has just one win in 2018, in January. And this year, he’ll be staying at a different rental house in Augusta. “It’s just got bad juju, so I’m not going there,” he told reporters during a West Coast stop.AdvertisementAt a place where Jack Nicklaus’s triumph at age 46 remains one of the game’s special moments, Mickelson has a chance to displace him as the oldest Masters winner amid his best spring in years.Mickelson, 47, has already become the oldest winner of a World Golf Championships event, ending a 4½-year drought without a win when he prevailed a month ago in Mexico. That was the apex in a run of four consecutive top-10 finishes. Though it’s been eight years since his last green jacket, Mickelson tied for third in 2012 and shared runner-up honors in 2015. The Hall of Famer has 11 top-five finishes at Augusta.A Sunday romp at the Arnold Palmer Invitational reaffirmed McIlroy among the favorites, and the Northern Ireland pro needs a Masters victory to complete the career Grand Slam.The nagging rib injury that hampered McIlroy’s 2017 season appears healed, though his results were hot-and-cold before Bay Hill. After two top-3 finishes on the European Tour’s Middle Eastern swing, he didn’t place higher than 20th in the United States before landing in Orlando. A green jacket could have been McIlroy’s first major prize — he was leading by four strokes heading into the final round in 2011 before shooting an 80 that included a triple bogey on No. 10, as Charl Schwartzel won.The two-time Masters winner wasn’t on many radars after a dismal 2017 when he struggled with health issues and equipment problems. Two victories in a six-week span, most recently the WGC Match Play, changed that.[READ MORE: Matt Parziale Is an Amateur at the Masters, but a Pro Fighting Fires]A slow West Coast start dropped Watson out of the world’s top 100 for the first time since 2009, before he found his form at the Genesis Open. His third victory at Riviera ended the slide, and he reached the 18th hole only once in seven rounds of match play.Watson’s revival follows a period in which he says an undisclosed medical condition caused him to drop weight and had him mulling retirement. A new golf ball deal also had backfired, and he was unable to shape shots the way he had before.AdvertisementThe 21-year-old pro from India became the first man since 2014 to receive a special invitation from Augusta National, given the strength of two European Tour wins this season and holding the 54-hole lead at the WGC Mexico Championship.The son of an Indian army colonel, Sharma was introduced to golf at age 7 after a chance conversation his father had with Anirban Lahiri’s father — a doctor who was treating Sharma’s mother. Sharma took to the game, turned pro at age 16 and barely qualified for the Asian Tour two years ago. He was ranked outside the world’s top 400 as recently as December before capturing the Joburg Open. Another win two months later in Malaysia got him into the WGC Mexico field.The 19-year-old from Chile figures to make Augusta National his final amateur start, having stood atop the world amateur rankings since last May.Niemann might already have started his professional career, but a five-shot victory in the Latin American Amateur Championship — held in his hometown Santiago — earned him a Masters invitation.He already has secured partial status on the Web.com Tour.Niemann had planned to play college golf at the University of South Florida, but his test score for English proficiency left him short of admission standards. The teen also has berths awaiting in the U.S. Open and British Open via his No. 1 amateur ranking, but will give those up by turning pro.A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 2018, on Page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Players to Watch.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byLENSBy Evelyn NievesAs Rocco Rorandelli documented the Balkan journey of Syrian refugees from Greece to Germany, he discovered rural landscapes plagued by explosive reminders of a past war: land mines. Off-limits forests ring Sarajevo. Minefields dot Bosnia’s Trebevic mountainsides. Large areas of Kosovo, Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina remain plagued by mines and other live bombs two decades after the Balkan wars of the 1990s. Mr. Rorandelli, a Rome-based photographer who specializes in global social and environmental issues, was struck by how the locals dealt with the deadly reality underfoot. “Even though the land was there,” he said, “it was as if it did not exist.” Moved to expose the consequences of Bosnian war-era land mines, Mr. Rorandelli, a founder of Terra Project, an Italian photography collective, traveled through Croatia, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. His project, “Mineland — The Endless War,” includes portraits of land mine survivors, aerial photographs of minefields and demining operations, and images of exploded ordnance and prosthetic limbs. Although focused on Europe, Mr. Rorandelli’s project highlights an international problem that many modern conflicts have left behind. Wednesday is the United Nations’ International Mine Awareness Day, meant to remind the world of a menace that kills and maims thousands of people every year. (The U.N.’s 1997 mine ban treaty, signed by 80 percent of the world’s countries, has conspicuous holdouts, including the United States, China, Russia, India and Pakistan.) Keeping the issue current helps countries raise the funds needed for demining, a painstaking, expensive proposition. Land mine watch groups estimate that globally there are 110 million land mines in the ground and an equal number in stockpiles waiting to be planted or destroyed. The cost to remove them all: $50 to $100 billion. In the Balkans, including Serbia, 150,000 unexploded pieces of ordnance remain. Demining operations cost an average of 1,000 euros per mine, and cutbacks in funding have made it difficult to finish the dangerous task. None of the countries in the Balkan region will meet the demining deadline of 2019 that was set in the U.N. treaty. Nongovernmental personnel working on demining worry that Bosnia might never be declared mine free, Mr. Rorandelli said. “A former Bosnian deminer who lost his leg during operations also told me that the company that used to employ him had subpar quality controls for decontamination,” he said. The Bosnian, he said, vowed to never walk on a piece of land that his company had decontaminated “unless some other company demined it again after us.”For the local authorities, land mine contamination is also a political land mine. They prefer to keep the issue “low-key,” Mr. Rorandelli said, to attract investors and tourists. “On the other hand,” he said, “they need to keep talking about it, so to reduce the risk for civilians and to keep foreign aid agencies and N.G.O.s investing in demining.”Land mine survivors told Mr. Rorandelli they lived two lives: one before losing an arm or leg, and another afterward, with more limited possibilities. The insult to their injury is that they often lose their place in the world, their standing in society — job, home, purpose.“There is still an aura of stigma around men — and women even more — who have lost limbs because of explosions,” he said. “Many victims lose their jobs and often the government cannot guarantee a decent pension. Without strong family support, people can lose hope.” Among his subjects who lost limbs in the prime of their life is Avni Lubovci of Kosovo, who lost a leg at age 15 in 1999. In 2011, his prosthesis caused an infection, forcing another partial amputation. To Mr. Rorandelli, Mr. Lubovci represents a hopeful future. “He realized that the only way to get his voice heard was to find others similar to his,” Mr. Rorandelli said. “In the face of great challenges, he opened the first N.G.O. in Kosovo assisting land mine victims.” Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementBy MOTOKO RICHMARCH 16, 2018
TOKYO — The United Nations detailed on Friday how North Korea gets around international sanctions designed to hobble the government and its nuclear weapons program. President Trump, after accepting an invitation last week to meet personally this spring with the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, said that sanctions would remain in place during any talks.
            Kim Jong Un talked about denuclearization with the South Korean Representatives, not just a freeze. Also, no missile testing by North Korea during this period of time. Great progress being made but sanctions will remain until an agreement is reached. Meeting being planned!        But the United Nations report shows just how difficult it is for governments to police North Korea and how widespread illicit trade with it is. The experts who compiled the report detailed violations across several countries, including Bulgaria, China, Germany, India, Myanmar, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Tanzania and Uganda.“It’s really kind of remarkable the scope of activities they are engaging in,” said Peter Harrell, an adjunct senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington, adding, “It brings home the fact that the North Korean tentacles still do have some global reach.”Here are some sanctions violations detailed in the report.One of the more eyebrow-raising examples described: Between January and June of last year, India exported $514,823 in diamonds to North Korea, along with other precious metals and stones.
            Huh. India exported more than half-a-million dollars worth of diamonds to #NorthKorea between January and June 2017. pic.twitter.com/aXZg8p1Hxr Other luxury goods that have made it to North Korea: sparkling wine and spirits from Germany, wine and vermouth from Italy, and perfume and cosmetics from Bulgaria. A Singapore-based company has been stocking department stores in Pyongyang, the capital, with luxury items from Japan and Europe.AdvertisementNorth Koreans have mastered “how to smuggle sanctioned items,” said Jay Song, a senior lecturer in Korean studies at the Asia Institute at the University of Melbourne in Australia. “Ironically, however, these trades, legal and illegal, grow the North Korean middle class, who then grow grievances against the authorities. They are also highly corrupt.”Mounting a ballistic missile and nuclear weapons program is not cheap. The report shows that the isolated country continues to sell commodities to United Nations member countries, even though sanctions prohibit such transactions. According to the panel, North Korea generated nearly $200 million between January and September 2017 by exporting “almost all the commodities prohibited in the resolutions.”AdvertisementIts largest export was coal; the report concluded that North Korea exported $413.6 million in coal in that time frame — $12.7 million above the United Nations cap. North Korea also sold $62.1 million in iron and steel, exports that violated sanctions.Using front companies, manipulations of automated signals that radar systems use to detect global shipments, and ship-to-ship transfers in the middle of the night, North Korea was able to “give the impression that the coal was loaded in ports other than in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,” the report said.Still, “We’re really forcing the North Koreans to jump through hoops,” said Andrea Berger, a senior research associate and senior program manager at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies in Monterey, Calif.“North Koreans are literally physically concealing the identity of ships at night and doing ship-to-ship transfers,” she said. “That’s not something you do unless you have to.”North Korean firms and individuals, utilizing front companies and working with foreign citizens, have opened bank accounts around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The report said some of the country’s banks “maintain a network of overseas representatives who continue to move freely across borders to undertake transactions in multiple countries and to establish residences abroad.”The experts found that many banks do not scrutinize account holders closely enough. It cited a “major European bank” that failed to verify answers that a representative of the Korea Daesong Bank gave to a questionnaire to screen for money laundering and ignored the fact that the account applicant appeared in a financial-crimes database.AdvertisementAs previously reported, the experts contend that North Korea has shipped supplies to the Syrian government that could be used in the production of chemical weapons. The report also detailed sales of ballistic missile systems, multiple rocket launchers and surface-to-air missiles to Myanmar.These arms sales are concerning not only because they help the North raise money, but because of “the inherently destabilizing nature of military cooperation that looks like this,” Ms. Berger said.North Korea has become a well-known state actor in surveillance and hacking. The report detailed an incident in which the North sent a drone toward a military facility in Seongju, South Korea, and snapped 555 photographs. The drone crashed because of an engine malfunction and was recovered by South Korean intelligence.The report also indicated that some of the email accounts of the United Nations experts had been hacked or that the North had tried to hack their accounts.Last December, the United Nations Security Council tightened sanctions against North Korea by cutting the amount of refined petroleum it can import each year by 89 percent.Yet the experts found that North Korea had developed a sophisticated network of intermediaries willing to help it procure oil.“If anything, the sanctions are making it more lucrative for these intermediaries,” said John Nilsson-Wright, a senior research fellow at the London-based Chatham House at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, because North Korea will pay a higher price to circumvent the sanctions.A North Korean gallery in the fashionable 798 Art District in Beijing was closed by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce in January. The Mansudae Art Studio, run by the North Korean state agency responsible for art, sold oil paintings of beaming factory workers, bronze sculptures in the social realism style and tourist kitsch like postage stamps and currency.In a prestigious spot across from a branch of the top-drawer Pace Gallery, the gallery showed paintings with price tags of $20,000 and up. The United Nations report said it operated as a joint venture between North Korea and a Chinese partner, and for that reason the Chinese government had agreed to close it.Jane Perlez contributed reporting from Beijing.A version of this article appears in print on March 17, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: As North Korea Eludes Sanctions, Wine and Diamonds Flow In and Coal Flows Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRISTINA CARONAPRIL 2, 2018
For the first time in its nearly 200-year history, the Mormon Church on Saturday appointed a person of color  into the upper echelons of its leadership, a group that has previously been occupied by white men.Gerrit W. Gong, who is Chinese-American, will join the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, which is the second-highest governing body in the church. The group helps make policy decisions in tandem with the church’s president and his two counselors.Further diversifying the ranks of the senior leadership, the Church also selected its first-ever Latin American apostle, Ulisses Soares, a Brazilian.Because the presidency is filled by the longest-serving member of the quorum, the two newest apostles could eventually gain enough seniority to occupy the highest position within the church. Several of the church’s senior leaders were born before World War II. The president, Russell M. Nelson, is 93, and the next man in line for the position is 85.AdvertisementIn the near future, however, it is more likely that either of the new apostles could be chosen as a counselor to the president, a position that does not require seniority.AdvertisementAlthough the appointments are historic and might help retain members, they are unlikely to change the status quo, said David E. Campbell, a professor of political science and a religion expert at the University of Notre Dame who has written about Mormonism.These are “company men” who have been socialized and indoctrinated in the ways the church works, he said, adding that “therefore, it is very unlikely that they would come to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and have any new radical ideas.”Even if they did, he added, “they are only two votes out of 12.”Mr. Gong, 64, a former special assistant to the United States ambassador in Beijing, and Mr. Soares, 59, a onetime accountant and auditor for multinational corporations in Brazil, have both served as second-tier leaders within the church for many years.They were unavailable for interviews, Karlie Brand Guymon, a spokeswoman for the church, said on Sunday.While recent data show that church membership in the United States has leveled out, areas like Africa and Latin America have seen surges.“Latin America remains and has been for the past three decades the area of the largest church growth,” said Patrick Mason, an expert on Mormonism and chairman of Mormon studies at Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, Calif.The church also hopes to expand in Asia and beyond. At the general conference, the large biannual gathering where the apostles were announced, leaders shared plans to build the church’s first temples in India and Russia.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The face of Mormonism is increasingly going to be people from the global south and people of color,” Professor Mason said.AdvertisementThe Mormon Church does not release statistics breaking down its members by race, but according to a 2014 Pew Research Center report, about 1 percent of Mormons in the United States are Asian and 1 percent are black. The largest number of minorities in the church — 8 percent — identify as Latino, the study showed, while 5 percent identify as “other” or “mixed.”When minority church members don’t see themselves represented among the leadership, “there’s a feeling of I might not be as wanted as I thought I might be,” said Paulette L. Payne, a Mormon in Atlanta who is black.The church has a painful history of excluding African-Americans. From the mid-1800s until 1978, it did not ordain black men to its priesthood or allow black men or women to participate in important rituals. The rules changed, the church said, when top leaders prayed and received a revelation that everyone deserved inclusion.There are a few black men serving on the Quorums of the Seventy, the church’s second-tier group of leaders.Women remain the final frontier. Church doctrine does not allow women to be ordained into the priesthood or hold top leadership positions. The highest-ranking women run councils that cater to women and girls, and occupy the lowest rank in the church’s organizational chart.At its conference, the church took a step toward elevating women’s voices by reorganizing local congregations and allowing men and women to have more similar experiences, Professor Mason said.“It will change the way people experience their Mormonism on a week-to-week level when they go to church on Sunday,” he said. “And that’s not a small thing.”Ms. Payne, 43, who has been an active church member since 1989, said she is cautiously optimistic about the changes.“I’m very pleased with the direction, but there still needs to be greater representation,” she said. “If I had a child, I would want her or him to see themselves reflected not only in the local leadership or the general congregations, but in the presidency.”Follow Christina Caron on Twitter: @cdcaron.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLettersTo the Editor:In “ ‘Race’ in the Age of Modern Genetics” (Sunday Review, March 25), David Reich does a disservice to the many scientists and scholars who have demonstrated the scientific flaws of considering “race” a biological category.This robust body of scholarship recognizes the existence of geographically based genetic variation in our species, but shows that such variation is not consistent with biological definitions of race. Nor does that variation map precisely onto ever-changing, socially defined racial groups.This doesn’t mean that genetic variation is unimportant; it is, even if it does not follow racial lines. But history has taught us that studies of human genetic variation can be misunderstood and misinterpreted if sampling practices and historical contexts are not considered; if little attention is given to how genes, environments and social conditions interact; and if we ignore the ways that sociocultural categories and practices shape the genetic patterns themselves.As applied to human beings, race is a social grouping. Genetically, there is only one human race.ALAN GOODMANMARCY DARNOVSKYAMHERST, MASS.Dr. Goodman is a professor of biological anthropology at Hampshire College and a past president of the American Anthropological Association. Dr. Darnovsky is executive director of the Center for Genetics and Society. The letter was signed by 31 other academics in anthropology, sociology, African-American studies, public health and law, among other disciplines.To the Editor:David Reich aspires to fearless engagement with the idea that genes underlie variation in outcomes of racially defined groups. But while deriding the notion of the “social construct” of race as “orthodoxy,” he overlooks how social ideas enter the imagination even of an eminent geneticist.No one objects to use of geography or ancestry as an explanation for population variation in gene distribution. But Africa is a continent. West Africa is a region. Neither is a “race.”Only the bloodstained history and legacy of African enslavement led Professor Reich to this dangerous racial thinking. Fortunately, racial gaps can and have narrowed far faster than the shifting of genes.This progress is through social investments that advance public health and include access to health care. These are now threatened, and not because of our genes.For the sake of public health, let’s not mix up folly with fearlessness.MARY T. BASSETT, NEW YORKThe writer is New York City’s health commissioner.To the Editor:At last! A Harvard geneticist, David Reich, admits that there are genetic differences between human races, even though he puts the word race in quotation marks.Obvious as this may seem, American academics for decades have insisted that race is a social construct, and have vilified as a racist anyone who says otherwise.After covering the human genome project for this newspaper for many years, I wrote a book, “A Troublesome Inheritance,” which explained that there is indeed a biological basis to race, a fact that Mr. Reich has now echoed, though without acknowledgment.He even tries to portray my book as racist, which it is not.Acknowledging that race has a biological basis is a salutary advance. Opposition to racism should rest not on the lie that races don’t exist but on principle, allowing science to proceed without hindrance.It is those who believe that free scientific inquiry will turn up something terrible who should check their consciences. The human genome’s forceful message is one of unity: All races are but variations on a single theme.NICHOLAS WADE, MONTCLAIR, N.J.To the Editor:David Reich’s studies in human evolution are admirable, and genetic background does matter in risk for certain diseases, but making generalizations about differences in intelligence and cognition is at best premature.First, many big genomics studies finding associations between sets of genes and biological/cognitive characteristics lack statistical reliability and are prime examples of the “reproducibility crisis” in biomedical science.Second, many of these genes have tiny effects individually, as has been shown extensively in cancer research. Third, the actual functions of many genes are still unknown, and only further functional studies will reveal their true effects. Fourth, which genes are affected by the environment and which aren’t?Dr. Reich cites Danielle Posthuma’s study of “more than 20 genes that were predictive of performance on intelligence tests.” How many times was this study replicated in different data sets? What measures were used to ensure its validity, like adherence to a prepublished protocol?Perhaps such measures were used, but he doesn’t reassure us of that and delivers only generalities that potentially feed the racist narrative.BEATRICE GRABOWSKI SILVER SPRING, MD.The writer is a former senior editor at The Journal of the National Cancer Institute.To the Editor:Despite David Reich’s explicit support for equality in matters of human variation, his essay emphasizing biological differences among humans based on modern genetics is troubling to me as a cultural anthropologist and a clinical psychologist.His omission of the significance of epigenetics and particularly of culture in human variation is striking.Consider the example of schizophrenia, regarded as a genetically based “brain” disease in the West, and treated as if culture played no part. Yet the research of the Stanford anthropologist Tanya Luhrmann demonstrates the cultural variation of the “voices” — auditory hallucinations — that usually accompany this illness: In the United States the voices were harsh and threatening compared with those heard by people with schizophrenia in Ghana and India, which were benign and playful.Rather than emphasize only how modern genetics is being ignored in discussions of “race,” it would be more scientific if Dr. Reich were also to report how epigenetic and cultural data contribute to the variations among us.JUSTINE MCCABENEW MILFORD, CONN.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTravel TipsIt’s easier than you may expect to find, visit, and enjoy the places where your favorite movies were made.By Shivani VoraWhether it’s the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy in New Zealand or “Roman Holiday” in Rome, many noteworthy movies are filmed in appealing locales all over the world that travelers may want to visit and enjoy.According to Angela Tillson, a film location manager in Kauai who has worked on the set of films including “Jurassic Park: The Lost World” and “The Descendants,” exploring a beloved movie set destination through the eyes of the film makes for an enjoyable vacation. “Seeing a place with a focus on a movie you love will give you a perspective that the average tourist doesn’t usually get,” she said. Here are her tips to get started.If there’s a movie you love, you can find out where it was filmed by looking at the credits at the end of the film or by going online to The internet Movie Database, also known as IMDB, which often lists filming locations. Once you know the locale, you can start planning your trip. Or, consider doing what Ms. Tillson often does when deciding on where to vacation: pick a spot you’re interested in visiting, and find out what movies have been filmed there. Then, plan an itinerary based around a film that you’ve seen and liked. “It’s fun to sometimes let a destination determine the movie you’re going to live rather than the other way around,” Ms. Tillson said. There are even some books available on movies shot in certain destinations such as The Hawaii Movie and Television Book and New York: The Movie Lover’s Guide. Do an online search for more options. Before you head to your destination, be sure to rewatch the movie. A rewatch not only reminds you of identifiable spots to look out for during your trip, but it also adds to the excitement of your upcoming exploration. If the movie is based on a book, considering reading the book, too. It may have details about the locale that the movie doesn’t touch on. Also, books often have scenes that don’t make it into the movie adaptations, which gives you a deeper view of the destination. Ms. Tillson also recommended downloading the movie’s soundtrack or score, and listening to it throughout your trip. Some travel companies sell set itineraries focused on popular movies. Luxury tour operator Zicasso, for example, has an eight-day trip to Ireland inspired by “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” and Wild Frontiers has an 11-day trip to India inspired by “The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel.” Ms. Tillson suggested doing a web search or checking with a travel agent to find out about such trips. Also, in some destinations, local tour operators and hotels sell movie-themed tours. For instance, The St. Regis Princeville Resort offers a tour that includes a private helicopter ride to Manawaiopuna Falls, made famous in “Jurassic Park,” and an ATV tour of filming locations of movies such as “Raiders of the Lost Ark” and “Pirates of the Caribbean.” Lunch is even included. The cost is $5,674 for two adults. A more affordable option, in Rome, is the four-hour Roman Holiday themed excursion from HR Tours, where travelers ride a Vespa with a driver and see all the sites from the movie; the cost is 170 euros per person. When they’re not working, movie crews enjoy hitting local bars and casual restaurants that serve tasty local cuisine, Ms. Tillson said. Find out where the behind-the-scenes staff of your film spent their time by asking your destination’s tourist board or your hotel’s concierge, and check out a few of the spots. “It’s another way to get entrenched in the film and spend time in bars and restaurants that you wouldn’t normally think to hit,” she said. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Margo OgeJust days after Donald Trump was elected president, the auto industry asked him to relax greenhouse-gas and fuel-economy standards for passenger cars and trucks. A year later, the Trump administration is reportedly about to grant that request, an action that, rather than helping the industry, will hurt its long-term competitiveness and stability.The standards in question, put in place by the Obama administration, make cars cleaner to drive and cheaper to own. By 2025, they would nearly double fuel economy to 51.4 miles per gallon, as measured in a laboratory, which is equivalent to a real-world average of 36 m.p.g. Compared with the real-world average of 26 m.p.g. for compact and midsize cars in 2016, the standards call for an improvement of about one mile per gallon per year over the next nine years.This fuel efficiency would result in a reduction of as much as six billion tons of carbon dioxide pollution and, through better fuel efficiency, $1.7 trillion in savings at the pump through 2025, good deals for the environment and consumers alike.Rolling back the standards is a further retreat from the promise the United States made to the world in the Paris climate agreement and would harm public health, the environment and our international standing.This retreat would also be bad for business. Selling gas-guzzling cars and trucks might continue to drive short-term profit, as some in the auto industry believe, but abandoning the standards now in place would run counter to the longer arc of consumer demand, state regulations and international market forces. Looser standards now, when consumers and many states are demanding cleaner cars, would spell trouble for the auto industry.One of the biggest speed bumps for this deregulatory effort will be California. The state has the unique, and congressionally mandated, right to set emissions standards for itself that are higher than federal limits. Under Section 177 of the Clean Air Act, around a dozen other states have adopted California’s standards, which match the current federal requirements for fuel efficiency. Officials from those states have said they would go to court to challenge any effort by the Trump administration to weaken the current standards.Those states represent about a third of the American auto market. Relaxing the federal standards would fracture the American car and truck market and leave automakers facing the prospect of producing different cars to meet different standards — undoubtedly a costly undertaking that consumers will bear. And the litigation would cloud the future and frustrate planning.Rolling back these regulations would also steer America in the opposite direction of where the rest of the world is going and make domestic manufacturers less competitive.Norway has set a goal of restricting sales of new vehicles to electric or plug-in hybrid models by 2025. France and Britain have pledged to end the sale of diesel and gas cars by 2040. Germany, the Netherlands and India are actively considering similar moves. Perhaps most important, China has a new zero-emission-vehicle mandate, modeled on the California program, which requires that such vehicles represent 8 percent of new car sales in 2018 and 12 percent by 2020. China is already General Motors’ largest market.Not all automakers want to weaken standards. Bill Ford, the executive chairman of Ford, and Jim Hackett, the company’s president and chief executive, said in a statement this week, “We support increasing clean car standards through 2025 and are not asking for a rollback.” They called for “one set of standards nationally,” but also “flexibility” in meeting them.They added that “we believe we must deliver” on reductions in carbon dioxide emissions that are “consistent with the Paris climate accord.”G.M.’s chief executive, Mary Barra, whose company has invested in the hybrid Volt and all-electric Bolt model, has expressed support for keeping the current nationwide fuel economy standards and has sought an extension of tax credits for producing electric vehicles. Toyota expressed its commitment to “help keep our winters winter” in an ad campaign during the Winter Olympics. And Volvo and Jaguar have declared that their entire fleets will be “electrified” in the near future.But at the same time, the main American industry trade group, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers (“We are the voice for a united auto industry”), has continued its drumbeat for weaker standards. What gives?More automotive executives need to step up to support the existing standards. The auto industry supported the standards when they were instituted, and the numbers support their viability — and profitability. Approximately 25 percent of the 2017 models meet the 2020 standards, and auto industry profits are touching 10-year highs.The clock is ticking before the Trump administration slashes the standards. None of the auto manufacturers can afford having American policies that put them in reverse — nor can their customers or the planet.Margo Oge, the director of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Transportation and Air Quality from 1994 to 2012, is the author of “Driving the Future: Combating Climate Change with Cleaner, Smarter Cars.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy CHARLES V. BAGLIMARCH 12, 2018
President Trump has long claimed that residential towers and condominium hotels bearing his name in gold or silver letters were more valuable than those of his competitors.But new analyses of Trump-branded buildings in Manhattan by two separate real estate companies show that far from leading the market, the president’s aging buildings are lagging behind.Trump apartments in 2017 sold for an average of $1,741 per square foot, or 6.6 percent lower than the average Manhattan condominium, according to CityRealty, a brokerage firm.Even at Trump Tower, where Mr. Trump has a triplex, sales peaked in 2013, with average prices at $3,000 per square foot, and have fallen since then, according to Nancy Packes, a real estate marketing consultant. Sales are now running about $2,000 a square foot, about the same price as two nearby condo towers also built in the 1980s, Metropolitan Tower and Museum Tower.Advertisement“The luster on Trump buildings has faded,” Ms. Packes said.And when compared with the new generation of ultraluxury buildings along Billionaire’s Row, a stretch of 57th Street that includes Trump Tower, the average Trump apartment is worth far less. The sales average, for instance, at 432 Park Avenue was $5,564; $4,051 at Time Warner Center; and $3,812 at One 57, the skyscraper at 157 57th Street, according to CityRealty.AdvertisementEven sales at Trump International Hotel & Tower in Columbus Circle, where the average price was more than $3,000 per square foot, paled in comparison with the building next door, 15 Central Park West, which averaged a market-leading $6,758 in 2017.The Trump Organization sharply disputed the idea that Trump apartment prices are in decline. Condominiums at Trump International, the organization said, “beat the pants off the prices” at the Time Warner Center. And comparing 35-year-old buildings with new luxury towers is unfair, it said. “Data can be manipulated to tell any story you want,” said Eric Trump, the president’s son and an executive vice president of the organization.“The fact remains, our buildings sell for the highest prices per square foot of any properties in the world,” he said. “That is undeniable.”The CityRealty Report, which is being released on Tuesday, compares the average price per square foot of 11 Trump-named buildings in New York with the average price for Manhattan condos, from 2007 through 2017.At the request of The New York Times, Ms. Packes compared the average price per square foot for Trump buildings with the average prices of similar condominiums built at roughly the same time.“The prices most Trump condos are now selling for no longer merit the luxury designation,” the CityRealty report said. “In part, this is simply a function of the age of the buildings,” as luxury buildings built over the past decade sell for more, the report said.But, brokers say, the difference is about more than just age. The features, amenities and styles that define ultraluxury have changed drastically since Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue opened in 1983, or Trump World Tower opened in 2001, near the United Nations. And foreign buyers, who dominate the top of the residential market in New York, are gravitating to the latest buildings on the market.Advertisement“Everybody wants the newest, coolest apartment with the most amenities, the newest architect,” said Dolly Lenz, a broker who represents high-end buyers and sellers. “The aesthetics have also changed. Back then, brass and gold was cool. Today, the aesthetic is much more minimalist. They show their status through art, so they need very high ceilings.”All this is a far cry from how the Trump brand was perceived in the 1980s and 1990s, when Mr. Trump was building his condominium portfolio.He started building his first eponymous building in 1980, the Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets, when the city was emerging from a long period of economic and fiscal crisis. He was one of the rare developers at the time to build luxury condos. But he thought he had a great location and a hefty tax break to boot.Even before he sold the first condo at the Trump Tower, Mr. Trump told The New York Times in 1980 that projects with his name on them were “25 percent more valuable.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The original marketing brochure for the bronze Trump Tower likened it to a “precision-cut diamond” that epitomized elegance, sophistication and beau monde with the highest prices and an entrance “inaccessible to the public.”The claim that luxury buyers paid a premium for Trump condos became part of the Trump marketing strategy. It was the key reason in the 1990s that General Electric selected Mr. Trump to convert its Gulf & Western Building at Columbus Circle into what became Trump International Hotel & Tower, recalled Barbara Corcoran, a businesswoman and television personality who was a prominent broker at the time in its sales and marketing.“It was the only brand known to consumers at the time,” Ms. Corcoran said, adding that buyers did pay a premium, though not as much as Mr. Trump claimed.He did get top dollar for the apartments at Trump Tower and did well with his other buildings. By 1997, he had two buildings — Trump Tower and Trump Palace — on the Corcoran company’s list of top 10 sales per square foot. And six apartments at Trump International placed in Corcoran’s top 10 list of sales by price.Ms. Packes traces the Trump brand’s decline in New York to the recession in 2008. As the market recovered and then took off in 2013, prices at Trump properties stayed flat or declined, compared with contemporary buildings and a new generation of ultraluxury buildings, like 432 Park Avenue or 15 Central Park West.AdvertisementSale prices at Trump Park Avenue have fallen since 2013 to the point where the average price is less than its contemporaries, the Chatham, at 181 East 65th Street, and 515 Park Avenue.“The overwhelming majority of the buildings that carry the Trump name,” she said, “underperformed the comparable building or buildings after the Lehman crisis.”Brokers, political analysts and apartment buyers have speculated about how the turmoil and division after Mr. Trump’s election might affect the value of his brand, both in heavily Democratic New York and in the world.The evidence is mixed.Certainly, Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., has done well, filling its rooms with lobbyists and visiting dignitaries and turning a profit, according to the Trump Organization.Donald Trump Jr., who is running the family company with his brother Eric, was recently in India pitching apartments in five Trump-branded projects in different cities.The Trump Organization has not built a condominium tower in a decade, but Mr. Trump is the rare developer who can license his name for buildings erected and financed by others.The Trump Organization and local developers claim that the Trump apartments in India are selling for 30 percent more than the average luxury units in Mumbai, Gurgaon and Kolkata.But in Toronto, the Trump International Hotel and Tower was renamed Adelaide Hotel Toronto. And last week, a worker pried the silver T-R-U-M-P letters off a troubled hotel and residential condominium in Panama City.The Trump name also came off Trump Soho, a hotel and condominium in Manhattan and three adjoining rental buildings on the West Side of Manhattan, where anti-Trump sentiment is high. A condominium nearby, at 200 Riverside Boulevard, is also in court seeking to peel away the Trump name.A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2018, on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump’s Towers Pale in Comparison With Nearby Ultraluxury Buildings, Reports Say.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CEYLAN YEGINSUMARCH 30, 2018
LONDON — The Man Booker Prize is Britain’s most prestigious literary award. But for the past two years, American writers have dominated the competition — and authors from Britain and the Commonwealth countries are none too pleased.The crescendo of frustration may have reached a peak. A group that counts the literary heavyweights Margaret Atwood, Ian McEwan and Zadie Smith among its members has fired a shot across the bow, demanding that the Man Booker Foundation reverse a 2014 decision making any novel written in English and published in Britain eligible for the prize.Leading authors and critics from the group, the Rathbones Folio Academy, bashed the Booker’s policy anew this week, arguing that changing the rules had taken away the distinctiveness of the prize, which was previously limited to writers from Britain, Ireland, Zimbabwe and the Commonwealth.They also criticized the way in which the Man Booker, begun in 1969, had highlighted less well known and prominent literature.Advertisement“The Man Booker used to provide a point of focus each year for British and Commonwealth fiction, a sense that this had some identity-in-difference, and that British and Commonwealth novels were in some sense ‘talking to one another’ — as distinct from any conversation going on in U.S. fiction,” Tessa Hadley, a British author and member of the Folio Academy, said by email.Advertisement“Now, it’s as though we’re perceived, and perceive ourselves, as only a subset of U.S. fiction, lost in its margins and eventually, this dilution of the community of writers plays out in the writing,” she added.Fears of American hegemony have surrounded the award since the decision was made. They grew as American authors began to dominate the shortlists and longlists, and as two consecutive prizes were awarded to Americans — Paul Beatty in 2016 for “The Sellout” and George Saunders in 2017 for “Lincoln in the Bardo.”When Mr. Saunders won the prize in October, Lola Young, the chair of judges, dismissed the notion that Americans had colonized Britain’s award, saying: “We don’t look at the nationality of the writer. We’re solely concerned with the book, with what that book is telling us.”Neither Mr. Beatty nor Mr. Saunders wished to weigh in on the debate, but some American publishers have said that changing the prize’s criteria had taken away an opportunity to learn about new books that they would not have normally come across. Thirty of Britain’s leading publishers signed a letter that was meant to privately urge the Man Booker organizers to reverse the change or risk a “homogenized literary future.”The signatories highlighted the fact that last year’s Man Booker shortlist consisted of three Americans, two Britons and one Anglo-Pakistani writer.The shortlist in 2013, the last year before Americans became eligible, included authors from Britain, Canada, India, Ireland, New Zealand and Zimbabwe.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Booker Foundation responded to the publishers’ letter by saying that expanded eligibility rules were intended to allow writers of any nationality, regardless of geography, and not specifically to include Americans.“The trustees believe that this mission cannot be constrained or compromised by national boundaries,” the Booker Foundation said in a statement.AdvertisementBut with the 2018 Man Booker award approaching (the longlist will be announced in July, and the prize awarded in October), the Rathbones Folio Academy took up the battle, canvassing its 300 members this month. Ninety-nine percent of the members who have responded to the question said that the Booker prize should change its rules again, restoring the former eligibility criteria. (The academy did not release the names of the members who voted.)Other writers argued that the prize should not be opened to American writers until American awards, such as the Pulitzer and National Book Awards, were opened to British writers.The Folio group oversees its own literary prize, a rival to the Man Booker, established after the 2011 Man Booker chairwoman of judges, Stella Rimington,  stressed “readability” and books that “zip along,” according to The Guardian. The Folio group notably awarded its prize to Mr. Saunders before he won the Man Booker.Not all British writers and critics oppose the Booker’s expanded criteria, however.“It seems to be that the Commonwealth isn’t a particularly sensible remit for a book prize that is purporting to be for the English language novel,” said Sam Leith, a Rathbone Folio Academy member who judged the Man Booker Prize in 2015. “The English language itself is a much more obvious constituency for it.”Mr. Leith said by telephone that he understood why some authors were upset about the decision, but added that it was a form of “cultural cringe” to say that British writers can’t compete with American authors.“Any judging panel is vulnerable to the ‘names’ of authors — the Booker isn’t judged blind,” Mr. Leith added. “But most of the panels that they select are relatively serious critics who will be able to look at a novel on its merits rather than on the merits of its author.”As for Mr. Saunders, reached by email, he wrote, “It would be better sportsmanship to stay on the sidelines about this.”An earlier version of this article misidentified who wrote a letter prompting a response from the Booker Foundation about the expanded eligibility rules. It was a group of 30 of Britain’s leading publishers, not the Folio Academy.A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: British Authors Urge Ban Of U.S. Titles for Honor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SEWELL CHANMARCH 30, 2018
Nearly all applicants for a visa to enter the United States — an estimated 14.7 million people a year — will be asked to submit their social media user names for the past five years, under proposed rules that the State Department issued on Friday.Last September, the Trump administration announced that applicants for immigrant visas would be asked for social media data, a plan that would affect 710,000 people or so a year. The new proposal would vastly expand that order to cover some 14 million people each year who apply for nonimmigrant visas.The proposal covers 20 social media platforms. Most of them are based in the United States: Facebook, Flickr, Google+, Instagram, LinkedIn, Myspace, Pinterest, Reddit, Tumblr, Twitter, Vine and YouTube. But several are based overseas: the Chinese sites Douban, QQ, Sina Weibo, Tencent Weibo and Youku; the Russian social network VK; Twoo, which was created in Belgium; and Ask.fm, a question-and-answer platform based in Latvia.During his campaign, President Trump promised “extreme vetting” of people seeking to enter the United States, and last March the State Department directed consular officers worldwide to step up scrutiny of visa applicants.AdvertisementBut the new proposal would add a tangible new requirement for millions of people who apply to visit the United States for business or pleasure, including citizens of such countries as Brazil, China, India and Mexico.AdvertisementCitizens of roughly 40 countries to which the United States ordinarily grants visa-free travel will not be affected by the requirement. Those countries include major allies like Australia, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and South Korea.In addition, visitors traveling on diplomatic and official visas will mostly be exempted.As news of the plan emerged on Friday, so did criticism.“This attempt to collect a massive amount of information on the social media activity of millions of visa applicants is yet another ineffective and deeply problematic Trump administration plan,” said Hina Shamsi, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s National Security Project. “It will infringe on the rights of immigrants and U.S. citizens by chilling freedom of speech and association, particularly because people will now have to wonder if what they say online will be misconstrued or misunderstood by a government official.”Anil Kalhan, an associate professor of law at Drexel University who works on immigration and international human rights, wrote on Twitter, “This is unnecessarily intrusive and beyond ridiculous.”Facebook said its position had not changed since last year, when it said: “We oppose any efforts to force travelers at the border to turn over their private account information, including passwords.”Along with the social media information, visa applicants will be asked for past passport numbers, phone numbers and email addresses; for records of international travel; whether they have been deported or removed, or violated immigration law, in the past; and whether relatives have been involved in terrorist activities.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Maintaining robust screening standards for visa applicants is a dynamic practice that must adapt to emerging threats,” the State Department said in a statement. “We already request limited contact information, travel history, family member information, and previous addresses from all visa applicants. Collecting this additional information from visa applicants will strengthen our process for vetting these applicants and confirming their identity.”Millions of people each year complete the online application for a nonimmigrant visa, known as the DS-160. It takes about 90 minutes to fill out, according to the department.AdvertisementThe San Bernardino, Calif., terrorist attack in 2015, which killed 14 people, focused attention on immigrants’ social-media use, after officials acknowledged that they had missed signs of online radicalization in an online-messaging platform used by the husband and wife who carried out the attack.Last year, John F. Kelly, who was then the secretary of homeland security and is now Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, told members of Congress that his department was considering asking visitors for passwords and access to online accounts.“We want to get on their social media, with passwords,” Mr. Kelly told members of the House Homeland Security Committee. “If they don’t want to cooperate, then you don’t come in.”So far, the government has stopped short of demanding passwords, though travelers have reported being asked for them, on a sporadic basis, at airports and other ports of entry. By some measures, the number of international visitors to the United States has begun to slip, although foreign tourism to New York City set a record last year.The new State Department requirements will not take effect immediately. The proposal set off a 60-day period for public comment, which ends on May 29.On Sina Weibo, one of China’s largest social media platforms, several users were critical of the plan.“Does it mean someone’s visa application will likely be rejected if he/she has been critical of the U.S.?” one wrote. “What about your sacred ‘freedom of speech?’”Another user wrote: “We Chinese have learned well enough the lessons to be drawn from isolation. Now it’s America’s turn.”Audrey Jiajia Li contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: 14 Million Visitors a Year Could Face Social-Media Screening by the U.S.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 30, 2018

Did you stay up to date this week? To take the quiz, click on an answer, and the correct response will be revealed after you choose.


Last week, the question about the death of Sudan, the last male northern white rhinoceros, had the highest share of correct answers, with 93 percent. The question about Major League Baseball’s plans to play in London was the toughest; only 34 percent responded correctly. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The U.S. joined a campaign by two dozen countries on Monday to retaliate for the poisoning of a Russian former spy in Britain.As part of that effort, President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russian officials from the U.S. as well as the closing of the Russian Consulate in which city?BostonMiamiSan FranciscoSeattleCrowds gathered last Saturday in cities across the U.S. and around the world to join student activists in protests against gun violence.After a mass shooting at a high school in Florida in February, the students hoped to elevate gun control as a key issue for the midterm elections.The title of the event encouraged participants to march for what?Our BeliefsOur FutureOur LivesOur RightsOur VotesNorth Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, made a surprise trip to China this week to meet with President Xi Jinping, the first known time that Mr. Kim traveled outside North Korea since taking power in 2011.The trip was reported by the state news media in China and North Korea only after Mr. Kim had left, but his presence in Beijing had been rumored after what telltale sign?The Chinese Air Force put on a special display Fanfare was heard outside the National People’s CongressMr. Xi announced a national holiday A bulletproof train arrived at Beijing’s central train stationThe U.S. Commerce Department announced on Monday that the 2020 census would include a question asking about what?Citizenship statusPhysical disabilitiesSexual preferenceSocial media useChristopher Wylie, above, testified before British lawmakers this week. For which organization did he work until 2014?Cambridge AnalyticaFacebookF.B.I.UberA fire in the Siberian city of Kemerovo killed at least 64 people on Sunday, many of them children. Where did the fire occur? In an apartment blockIn a schoolIn a shopping mallIn a theme parkA TV interview with the pornographic film actress Stephanie Clifford about her alleged affair with Donald  Trump drew 22 million viewers on Sunday night. The interview appeared on which news program? “20/20”“60 Minutes”“Dateline”“Inside Edition”Municipal employees were able to use computers again on Tuesday after a sustained cyberattack against which American city?AtlantaCharlotte, N.C.MinneapolisPittsburghWhich dating app announced this week that it would change its software to encourage millions of its users to get frequent H.I.V. tests? BumbleGrindrHappnTinderThe sitcom “Roseanne” returned to ABC this week after a 21-year absence.The show got off to an enormously strong ratings start. About how many viewers watched on Tuesday?8 million18 million28 million38 millionThere was a cheating scandal in the world of cricket this week, with the revelation of a plan to tamper with a ball during an international series of matches.The captain of the national team for which country acknowledged concocting the plan?AustraliaEnglandIndiaSouth AfricaAdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 8:38 P.M. E.D.T.
ORLANDO, Fla. —  The widow of the Pulse nightclub gunman walked free on Friday after a jury cleared her of charges related to the 2016 massacre that killed 49 people in Orlando, stunning survivors who had longed to hold someone accountable.Noor Salman, 31, could have faced up to life in prison had she been convicted of federal charges of obstruction of justice and aiding her husband, Omar Mateen, in providing support to the Islamic State militant group.Instead, the U.S. District Court jury in Orlando acquitted Salman after roughly 12 hours of deliberation that began on Wednesday. Hours later, she walked out of Orange County jail, her head bowed as she held hands with defense lawyer Fritz Scheller."We just relived the whole thing all over again," said India Godman, who was in the nightclub when shots rang out, killing 14 of her friends.AdvertisementSalman was home with the couple's then 3-year-old son at the time of the rampage on June 12, 2016. Mateen died in an exchange of gunfire with police at Pulse, a gay nightspot.AdvertisementThe acquittal was an emotional blow for the survivors and families of those killed. The attack stunned and dismayed lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and Latinos who frequented Pulse.Godman was among several survivors and their supporters who gathered outside Pulse, about 2 miles (3 km) from the courthouse."I'm in shock. I think that she knew that he was up to something," said Neema Bahrami, an event manager at the nightclub who survived the shooting while his best friend was killed.TEARS, HUGSThen the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history, it has since been surpassed by the Las Vegas attack in which a shooter opened fire on an outdoor concert from his hotel room last year, killing 58 people.When U.S. District Judge Paul Byron announced the verdict, Salman broke down in tears and hugged her defense lawyers, according to reporters inside the courtroom. Her relatives gasped while families of the victims sat silently, showing little emotion."We knew from day one she was innocent," Salman's aunt, Susan Adieh, told reporters just after the verdict.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The jury's foreperson anonymously emailed a statement to Orlando news outlets, saying that the verdict did not mean that jurors thought Salman was unaware of Mateen's plans."She may not have known what day, or what location, but she knew. However, we were not tasked with deciding if she was aware of a potential attack," the foreperson said. "The charges were aiding and abetting and obstruction of justice."AdvertisementSalman, who had been jailed during the trial, will move to California, where she has relatives, family spokeswoman Susan Clary said.Mateen, 29, opened fire shortly after 2 a.m. during Latin night, shooting patrons on the dance floor and spraying bullets at others hiding in bathroom stalls. He held hostages during a standoff with police, claiming allegiance to a leader of Islamic State before he was shot dead.Prosecutors said Salman cased possible attack sites with her husband and did nothing to stop his plans. They claimed she initially told investigators her husband acted without her knowledge but later said she knew he was watching Islamic State videos, had purchased an assault rifle, and examined three possible attack locations.The Federal Bureau of Investigation did not record the interrogation and the defense said she was coerced into making statements.The jury appeared to believe the defense portrayal of Salman as a battered spouse kept in the dark, said David Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor and now a partner at Coral Gables, Florida-based Hinshaw & Culbertson."The lack of a videotaped confession had to have had an impact on the jury's acceptance of her confession ... It is clear they believed it was coerced," Weinstein said in a statement.(Reporting by Joey Roulette in Orlando; Writing by Daniel Trotta; editing by David Gregorio and Jonathan Oatis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By AUDREY CARLSEN and 
    
SAHIL CHINOY

MARCH 2, 2018

Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In some countries, the process takes months. Here are the basic steps for how most people buy a gun in 15 of them. Many countries have exceptions for specialized professions, and local laws vary.Reporting was contributed by Damien Cave from Sydney, Australia; Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem; Iliana Magra from London; Oleg Matsnev from Moscow; Norimitsu Onishi from Johannesburg; Sergio Peçanha from New York; Suhasini Raj from New Delhi; Austin Ramzy from Hong Kong; Christopher F. Schuetze from Berlin; and Hisako Ueno from Tokyo.Sources: GunPolicy.org; Law Library of Congress; Hans-Jörg Albrecht, Max Planck Institute for Foreign and Inter­national Criminal Law; Farea Al-Muslimi, Sana'a Center for Strategic Studies; Philip Alpers, University of Sydney; Adam Baron, Sana'a Center for Strategic Studies; Blake Brown, Saint Mary's University; Wendy Cukier, Coalition for Gun Control; Laura Cutilletta, Giffords Law Center; Nils Duquet, Flemish Peace Institute; Octavio Rodríguez Ferreira, University of San Diego; José Manuel Heredia, Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas; Nestor Kapusta, Medical University of Vienna; Adèle Kirsten, Gun Free South Africa; Daniel König, Medical University of Vienna; Jooyoung Lee, University of Toronto; Ivan Marques, Instituto Sou da Paz; Rela Mazali, Gun Free Kitchen Tables; Samara McPhedran, Griffith University; Binalakshmi Nepram, Control Arms Foundation of India; Thomas Niederkrotenthaler, Medical University of Vienna; Rebecca Peters, International Action Network on Small Arms; Sandhya Ramesh; David Shirk, University of San Diego; A.J. Somerset; and Peter Squires, University of Brighton.An earlier version of this article included an incorrect requirement for gun purchases in Japan. Residents are not required to join a hunting or shooting club in order to buy a gun.AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 8:59 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  Following are five big themes likely to dominate thinking of investors and traders in the coming week and the Reuters stories related to them.1/HAVE THIS YUAN ON XIU.S.-China trade frictions will remain a central focus next week. There are hopes there will be negotiations that end with everyone looking happy for the cameras, but for the time being everything remains uncertain.One background issue over the last couple of weeks has been a sizable appreciation of the yuan. In trade-weighted terms, the currency has now risen more this year, at 3 percent, than it did in the whole of 2017.It has been closely hugging the daily benchmark fixing set by the central bank, so markets are speculating that allowing the yuan to rise might be part of China's conciliatory offerings in the trade spat.Advertisement(Graphic: China's yuan on the rise - https://reut.rs/2J1H7sk)2/LOOK AT ME GROWSpring is coming to large parts of the northern hemisphere so it seems fitting that so much global data is coming out next week.AdvertisementWorld stock markets have just seen their first quarterly fall in two years and this will feed the view on how Q2 might play out.March inflation data from the euro zone on Wednesday is expected to creep up and bolster bets on the end of ECB QE this year.Similar data in Turkey will be watched by those trading the battered lira, while there is forward-looking purchasing manager (PMI) data, ISM or employment numbers in so many countries from the United States to India that most economists will just need a lie down come Friday. <ECONALLUS><ECONALLEZ>(Graphic: Global trade and GDP growth - http://reut.rs/2FtPzhW)3/TECH REBOOTWhether or not the world's biggest tech and social media firms can bounce back from the more than $400 billion wipe out of the last couple of weeks is going to be one of the big things to watch next week.Facebook's top brass might reveal when they will appear in front of lawmakers in the United States and Britain to answer questions about the misuse of 50 million users private data.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The heat is also likely to stay on online retail giant Amazon after reports Donald Trump is not happy that its growing dominance is sending so many small businesses to the wall.(Graphic: The sinking FAANGs - https://reut.rs/2GhhYIe)4/ BREXIT, PURSUED BY A BEAR... AND A BULLThere is now less than a year to go until Britain formally exits the European Union, but sterling and UK stocks are giving off some conflicting signals as the final countdown gets into gear.The pound, seen as the main Brexit bellwether since the June 2016 vote, has just had its best quarter in three years, and not only against the struggling dollar, but also against the euro <GDP=D4>. On a trade-weighted basis too it is inching back toward its ten-year average, which all suggests improved investor confidence after this month's post-EU transition deal helped soothe lingering 'hard' Brexit nerves.AdvertisementBut sentiment on UK stocks has never been this bad: a record number of global fund managers are underweight the asset class and the FTSE 100 has just had its worst quarter in 6-1/2 years.So what gives? Well, there's the global sell-off of course, but its also partly the flip side of sterling's success. Its weakness provided a big boost to FTSE 100 companies with earnings in dollars due to the currency conversion gains, but now that crutch for large-caps is gone and with it a major reason for holding them.(Graphic: Brexit bellwether sterling shows signs of hope - https://reut.rs/2pOAH76)5/JUST THE JOBFriday's release of the March employment report will be on traders' and investors' radar, in the wake of Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell’s first interest rate hike this year two weeks ago.With inflationary pressures brewing, the wage growth figure will an important focus for world financial markets. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast payrolls rising by 203,000 jobs in March and the unemployment rate falling to 4 percent.Average hourly earnings had been expected to increase 0.2 percent in March. The U.S. economy added the biggest number of jobs in more than 1-1/2 years in February, but a slowdown in wage growth pointed to only a gradual increase in inflation this year, which eased investor concerns.(Graphic: U.S. unemployment rate - https://reut.rs/2IchAv0)(Additional reporting by Helen Reid, Jennifer Ablan and Vidya Ranganathan; Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 8:36 P.M. E.D.T.
UNITED NATIONS —  The United States will no longer shoulder more than a quarter of the multibillion-dollar costs of the United Nations' peacekeeping operations, Washington's envoy said Wednesday."Peacekeeping is a shared responsibility," U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley said at a Security Council debate on peacekeeping reform. "All of us have a role to play, and all of us must step up."The U.S. is the biggest contributor, assessed about 28.5 percent of this year's $7.3 billion peacekeeping budget.Citing a 25 percent cap in a U.S. law, Haley said it will be the limit "moving forward." The U.S. Mission to the U.N. later said her remarks apply to the current peacekeeping budget year.AdvertisementThe second-largest contributor, China, is assessed a bit over 10 percent.The U.N. now runs 15 peacekeeping missions worldwide. U.S. President Donald Trump's administration has complained before about the cost and pressed to cut this year's budget. It is $570 million below last year's, a smaller decrease than the U.S. wanted.Advertisement"We're only getting started," Haley said when the cut was approved in June. It followed a $400 million trim the prior year, before Trump's administration.Haley said Wednesday that the U.S. will work to make sure cuts in its portion are done "in a fair and sensible manner that protects U.N. peacekeeping."The General Assembly sets the budget and respective contributions by vote. Spokesmen for Assembly President Miroslav Lajcak and U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres declined to comment on Haley's remarks, noting that the 193 U.N. member states will decide the budget.Drawing over 105,000 troops, police and other personnel from countries around the world, the peacekeeping missions operate in places from Haiti to parts of India and Pakistan. Most are in African countries. The biggest is in Congo, where the Security Council agreed just Tuesday to keep the 16,000-troop force in place for another year.Some missions have been credited with helping to protect civilians and restore stability, but others have been criticized for corruption and ineffectiveness.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In Mali, where 13,000 peacekeepers have been deployed since 2013, residents in a northern region still "don't feel safe and secure," Malian women's rights activist Fatimata Toure told the Security Council on Wednesday. She said violence remains pervasive in her section of a country that plunged into turmoil after a March 2012 coup created a security vacuum."We have still not felt (the peacekeeping mission) deliver on its protection-of-civilians mandate," though it has helped in some other ways, Toure said. "We feel, as civilians, that we've been abandoned, left to our fate."Peacekeeping also has been clouded by allegations of sexual abuse and exploitation. An Associated Press investigative series last year uncovered roughly 2,000 claims of such conduct by peacekeepers and other U.N. personnel around the world during a 12-year period.AdvertisementMaintaining peace has become increasingly deadly work. Some 59 peacekeepers were killed through "malicious acts" last year, compared to 34 in 2016, Guterres said Wednesday. A U.N. report in January blamed many of the deaths on inaction in the field and "a deficit of leadership" from the world body's headquarters to remote locations.Guterres said Wednesday that the U.N. is improving peacekeepers' training, has appointed a victims' rights advocate for victims of sexual abuse and is reviewing all peacekeeping operations.Still, he said, more needs to be done to strengthen peacekeeping forces and ensure they are deployed in tandem with political efforts, not instead of them. They also shouldn't be overloaded with unrealistic expectations, he said."Lives and credibility are being lost," he said. "A peacekeeping operation is not an army or a counterterrorist force or a humanitarian agency."Representatives from many countries also stressed a need for more focused, better prepared peacekeeping missions and more robust political peace processes.The U.N., its member states and countries that host peacekeeping missions all "need to shoulder our responsibilities," said Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, whose country arranged the debate as this month's Security Council president.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 4:23 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  SoftBank Group Corp's Vision Fund will invest in creating the world's biggest solar power project in Saudi Arabia, it said on Tuesday, stepping up its involvement in the kingdom and expanding beyond technology.The project is expected to have the capacity to produce up to 200 gigawatts (GW) by 2030, SoftBank Chief Executive Masayoshi Son told reporters in New York. That would add to around 400 GW of globally installed solar power capacity and is comparable to the world's total nuclear power capacity of around 390 GW as of the end of 2016.By investing in solar power, Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, can reduce the amount of crude it currently uses to generate power and increase its overseas shipments. The move illustrates the commitment by the de facto Saudi ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, to transform the country's economic status quo.The final investment total for the 200 GW of generation, including the solar panels, battery storage and a manufacturing facility for panels in Saudi Arabia, will eventually total around $200 billion, Son said.AdvertisementThe initial phase of the project, for 7.2 GW of solar capacity, will cost $5 billion, with $1 billion coming from SoftBank's Vision Fund and the rest from project financing, he said.AdvertisementSaudi Arabia's Vision 2030 reform plan, which aims to reduce the country's economic dependence on oil, was a good match for the fund's long-term vision for innovation, said Son."These two visions have come together to create clean, sustainable, low-cost and productive renewable energy," he said. "The Kingdom has great sunshine, great size of available land, and great engineers..."Despite being one of the world's sunniest countries, Saudi Arabia generates most of its electricity from oil-fired power plants.Saudi's entire installed power capacity is currently around 60 GW. Adding 200 GW would create enormous excess capacity that could be exported to neighbors or used by industry, although the kingdom will still require other forms of power generation for night-time back-up.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Industry estimates say around 300,000 to 800,000 barrels per day of crude oil are burnt for Saudi power generation.Exporting that oil could increase Saudi's annual oil revenues by between $7 billion and $20 billion, at the current price for benchmark Brent <LCOc1> oil of almost $70 per barrel.POST-FOSSIL FUEL"Saudi Arabia is clearly preparing for a post-fossil fuel dependent economy in terms of domestic energy consumption, and this huge bet on renewables would free up a lot of domestic output of oil for exports, while probably saving domestic gas resources as well," said Peter Kiernan, lead energy analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in Singapore."Up until now, progress in building solar capacity in the kingdom has been very slow, but this deal might give it the kick start it needs. But 200 GW by 2030 though, that's another question,” Kiernan said.AdvertisementLast May, Softbank said it raised over $93 billion for the Vision Fund, the world's largest private equity fund with backers including Saudi Arabia's sovereign wealth fund, Apple Inc and Foxconn, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry.The Vision Fund has funneled $27.5 billion into 20 tech firms as of the end of December, transforming SoftBank from a Japanese telecoms upstart into one of the world's biggest technology investors.The Saudi investment is Softbank's second major global solar project.The company has said it will invest up to $20 billion along with Foxconn and Bharti Enterprises in solar projects in India, which has an ambitious target to generate 100 GW of power from solar by 2022. SoftBank estimated the electrification drive could create a requirement for over 150 GW of additional power.(This story corrects name of Saudi crown prince to Salman not Sultan in paragraph 3.)(Reporting by David French in NEW YORK; additional reporting by Henning Gloystein in SINGAPORE; Writing by Ritsuko Ando; Editing by Christian Schmollinger)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By RICK GLADSTONEMARCH 26, 2018
The Iran nuclear accord, assailed by President Trump and his revamped retinue of advisers, received a strong endorsement Monday from a bipartisan group of more than 100 national security veterans, who said the United States gains nothing by scrapping it.The group, including 50 retired military officers and at least four former American ambassadors to Israel, added its voice to a fractious debate over the accord, which Mr. Trump has called “the worst deal” ever.In a statement, the group, which calls itself the National Coalition to Prevent an Iranian Nuclear Weapon, enumerated 10 reasons that, in its view, preserving the accord is in the best interests of the United States.They included the determination by United Nations inspectors that the accord is working; the importance of preserving close relations with major European allies, which all support the accord; and the possibility of reaching a nuclear agreement with North Korea, which might not negotiate if it believes that the United States abrogates international pledges.Advertisement“President Trump should maintain the U.S. commitment to the Iran nuclear deal,” the signers said in the statement. “Doing so will bring substantial benefits and strengthen America’s hand in dealing with North Korea, as well as Iran, and help maintain the reliability of America’s word and influence as a world leader. Ditching it would serve no national security purpose.”AdvertisementThe signers cover a range of prominent diplomatic and military figures, Democrat and Republican, spanning decades of foreign policy experience. They include Brent Scowcroft, a former national security adviser; Gen. Michael V. Hayden, former director of the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency; former Senators Richard G. Lugar and Sam Nunn; Adm. Eric T. Olson, former commander of Special Operations Forces; and Adm. William J. Fallon, former commander of the United States Central Command.Former ambassadors who signed include Ryan C. Crocker, who served in Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, Syria, Kuwait and Lebanon; Daniel C. Kurtzer, who served in Israel and Egypt; James B. Cunningham, who served in the United Nations, Israel and Afghanistan; Thomas R. Pickering, a former under secretary of state who served in Israel, Russia, India, El Salvador, Nigeria, Jordan and the United Nations; and William C. Harrop, who served in Israel and as the State Department’s inspector general.The release of their statement came less than two months before an American law requires Mr. Trump to decide whether to restore nuclear-related sanctions on Iran. He has suggested that he will restore them, which would effectively terminate the American pledge to heed the nuclear agreement’s provisions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The 2015 agreement, negotiated under President Barack Obama, curtails Iran’s nuclear activities in exchange for eased economic sanctions. It provides for unprecedented international inspections of Iranian facilities to ensure compliance with Iran’s repeated vow that it will never develop a nuclear weapon.Mr. Trump has criticized provisions of the agreement that expire after a number of years, arguing they should be permanent. He also has complained that the accord does not prohibit Iran’s ballistic missile activities.His views have been welcomed by the governments of Israel and Saudi Arabia, which both see Iran as a regional menace, and in Israel’s view, an existential threat.Britain, France and Germany, which signed the nuclear accord, agree with Mr. Trump’s concern about Iranian missiles, but say that issue should be discussed separately.Iran has said it will not renegotiate the nuclear agreement.The prospects that Mr. Trump will terminate American participation rose significantly in the past few weeks, when he dismissed his secretary of state and national security adviser, replacing them with loyalists who are outspoken in their antipathy toward Iran.Mr. Trump’s new choices for secretary of state, the C.I.A. director Mike Pompeo, and for national security adviser, the former ambassador John R. Bolton, have both denounced the nuclear agreement.AdvertisementWendy R. Sherman, a former under secretary of state who was the lead American negotiator for the nuclear agreement, said in an Op-Ed essay published in The New York Times on Monday that Mr. Bolton’s elevation, in particular, “has only cemented the expectation that the nuclear deal’s life expectancy is short.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:26 A.M. E.D.T.
HANOI —  A crackdown on corruption in Vietnam unnerved some foreign investors when it intensified last year, but they are now getting much more sanguine about it and some say the business climate is improving as a result.While the campaign by the government of Communist party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong has slowed some dealmaking in a country already plagued by Soviet-era red tape and bureaucracy, it has not deterred foreign investors from putting their money in Vietnam.Vietnam's economy grew 6.8 percent last year, the strongest pace since 2010, while foreign direct inflows hit record highs for two years in a row, reaching $17.5 billion in 2017.To some foreign investors the crackdown was long overdue. Nearly two-thirds of Vietnam's people have had to pay a bribe to get access to public services, Transparency International (TI) said in a 2017 report. Out of 16 Asian countries surveyed, only India fared worse.AdvertisementThe anti-corruption drive is a "good signal" to many foreign investors, said Somhatai Panichewa, chief executive of Amata VN Pcl, a unit of Thailand's top industrial estate operator Amata which in January announced major investments in Vietnam.Advertisement"We think the government is serious about showing the public that investing in Vietnam is no longer 'know-who' but about 'know-how,'" she said.Some business risk analysts take a similar view."Once the political thrust behind the arrests ... and their pattern could be more clearly identified, confidence was restored in the government's commitment to courting foreign investment," said Brendan Brady of consulting firm Eurasia.That doesn't mean the business conditions are easy for foreign investors.Executives on the ground have to navigate "a minefield" of new challenges, said Adam Sitkoff, executive director of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hanoi."Whether a result of corruption, protectionism, tax collection, or the government trying to pick winners and losers, our member companies often see areas where inconsistencies, inefficiencies, and unfair practices persist - and in some cases new unfair practices are being enacted," Sitkoff said.The government did not respond to requests for comment on the fallout from the crackdown or the circumstances in which it was launched.Over 100 people - mostly from state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the banking or energy sectors - have been prosecuted, jailed and, in some cases, given death sentences in the anti-corruption campaign.POLITICALLY MOTIVATEDGovernment critics say the crackdown is politically motivated and has targeted those close to former prime minister Nguyen Tan Dung, who lost a power struggle in 2016 to Communist Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong.    But it has also shed light on deep-seated graft, mismanagement and nepotism within state-owned enterprises (SOEs) firms in the country at a time when a long-delayed privatization drive is accelerating.AdvertisementTrinh Xuan Thanh, a former chairman of a unit of the PetroVietnam state energy group, is now serving two life sentences for corruption after he fled the country and turned up in Hanoi in bizarre circumstances. Germany accused Hanoi of kidnapping him in a Cold-War style abduction in a Berlin park last year.Thanh's senior, ex-politburo member Dinh La Thang, was also sacked and became Vietnam's highest-ranking official to have been jailed for decades. He was given 13 years in prison and is again on trial facing another potential jail term.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Officials have been more cautious after the corruption crackdown," said an executive of a small government enterprise, who declined to be named due to the sensitivity of the subject."There have been quite a lot of requirements to cut down costs recently ... some are required, some are forced, some are achieved via technology enhancements that cut down on electricity costs, material costs etc," the executive said.Earlier this month, one of Vietnam's most sought after SOEs earmarked for privatization, telecoms firm MobiFone, was accused by a government investigating team of several violations in a bid to buy a 95 percent stake in a private pay-TV service called Audio Visual Global.The government inspectors described the deal as "negatively affecting" MobiFone's proposed privatization and proposed handing over the case to police.The two sides called off the deal just before the results of the investigations were announced.MobiFone has not responded to a request for comment.Calls to Audio Visual Global were not answered.The privatization of MobiFone has already been delayed for more than a decade and it could take even longer if the case is handed over to the police.Vietnam has failed to meet its privatization targets in previous years but has plans for over 100 initial public offerings as well as partial stake sales in around 400 companies by 2020.Advertisement"It seems that managers of SOEs - at least the most important ones - are now more cautious in their activity, in particular in relation to equitisation (partial privatization), divestment and so on," the European Chamber of Commerce said in a statement to Reuters."The approval of line ministers is more systematically sought and the valuation of assets or shares is subject to more constraints".Still, as Thang and Thanh went on trial in January, the government managed to raise about $740 million from selling partial stakes in three PetroVietnam units - despite the corruption attached to its name.And last December, the government raised a lofty $4.8 billion from selling 54 percent of brewer Sabeco.(Additional reporting by Chayut Setboonsarng in BANGKOK and Karin Strohecker in LONDON; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 6:47 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Maziar Hashemi, a naturalized U.S. citizen who lives in Massachusetts, has been told by doctors that his best hope for surviving a rare form of blood cancer is a bone marrow transplant.President Donald Trump’s travel ban could make that impossible.Bone marrow transplants require a close match between donor and recipient. A few months after his diagnosis last September, Hashemi, 60, learned that his brother in Iran, Kamiar Hashemi,  was a rare 100-percent match. The only problem was Kamiar’s nationality.The latest travel ban, issued as a presidential proclamation and implemented on December 8 after months of legal wrangling, bars most travelers to the United States from Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea, as well as certain government officials from Venezuela. Although the ban allows for case-by-case waivers to be granted, including for medical need, Kamiar Hashemi has so far been denied a visa.Attorneys who regularly deal with visa issues say the waiver process is opaque. Visa applicants aren’t allowed to apply for waivers; they are simply granted or not without explanation. U.S. officials won't say how they make their decisions or how long they generally take.AdvertisementA U.S. State Department official told Reuters that since the ban took effect, more than 375 waivers have been approved but he declined to say how many total visa applications have been filed from countries covered by the ban. He said he could not comment on the specifics of Hashemi’s case.AdvertisementKamiar Hashemi began the visa application process soon after learning he was a match for his brother. In February, the 57-year-old small business owner traveled to Armenia to be interviewed at the U.S. embassy there, since there is no embassy in Iran.Later on the day of the interview, Kamiar’s brother back in Massachusetts checked the status of the application on the State Department's website. A pop-up window announced in bright blue letters: "Refused."Waivers can later be granted to applicants initially refused for visas, according to the State Department, so Maziar Hashemi continued checking the website each day, but his brother’s status hasn’t changed. He hired an immigration lawyer, Mahsa Khanbabai, hoping she might smooth the way.‘TRANSPARENT AS MUD’The Trump administration has said travel restrictions are needed to protect the United States from terrorism.Critics have challenged the latest ban, as they did previous versions, saying that it discriminates against Muslims. Six of the eight countries included in the current ban are majority Muslim.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Under the current proclamation, waivers can be granted in cases where denying entry would cause undue hardship, when the individual is found not to be a threat and when their entry is in the national interest.The proclamation lists ten examples of situations in which an applicant might be eligible for a waiver. One reason mentioned is an applicant’s need for urgent medical care, something that comes close but doesn’t exactly fit the Hashemis’ situation, since it isn’t Kamiar Hashemi, himself, in urgent need.The State Department has declined to provide details of how waiver decisions are made beyond some general answers to frequently asked questions posted on its website. But a State Department letter obtained by Reuters earlier this month said "there is no waiver form to be completed" and that applicants who fall into the categories outlined in the proclamation "must be considered" for one.Advertisement“The process is as transparent as mud,” said Hashemi’s attorney Khanbabai. “There are no clear guidelines. It’s difficult to figure out what the process is and who is actually doing the processing.”Nevertheless, Khanbabai submitted a packet of information on the Hashemis’ behalf to the embassy on March 19, including a letter from Massachusetts General Hospital explaining that a perfect match for a bone marrow transplant is very rare and could provide the only viable treatment for Maziar Hashemi’s Myelodysplastic syndrome.Worried about the ticking clock, Kamiar Hashemi looked into traveling to India to have his bone marrow harvested there and rushed to the United States, but that option was also thwarted.A non-profit organization trying to facilitate the transfer, Be The Match, said it had to pull out after its legal team concluded that Kamiar’s bone marrow couldn’t be exported to the United States because of U.S. sanctions on Iranian exports."Can you imagine that the cells of an Iranian needed in order to help a U.S. citizen are embargoed?" said Maziar Hashemi, a civil engineer who has lived in the United States since the 1970s."It is just unfair," he said in a phone interview. "I cannot wait much longer."(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg in New York; Editing by Sue Horton and Paul Thomasch)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Wendy R. ShermanJohn R. Bolton, President Trump’s new national security adviser, has never met a war he didn’t want.Mr. Bolton defends the 2003 invasion of Iraq and he advocates attacking North Korea, too. He believes that the United States should have bombed Iran years ago, rather than negotiating an international agreement to prevent it from obtaining a nuclear weapon.Since going into force in 2016, that deal has blocked Tehran’s path to a nuclear weapon and prevented a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. By every account, Iran is complying with the agreement, has committed to never obtaining a nuclear weapon and has subjected itself to rigorous monitoring and verification.And yet, Mr. Trump appears committed to killing it. Mr. Bolton’s appointment has only cemented the expectation that the nuclear deal’s life expectancy is short. May 12 is the next deadline by which the president has to extend sanction waivers and certify Iran’s compliance to preserve the accord. If he doesn’t, the fallout will be profound.First and foremost, Iran most likely will move quickly, without any restraint, to enrich uranium, the fissile material needed for nuclear weapons. The Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, the leading edge of Iran’s nefarious actions, will declare that the West can never be trusted and will use the decision to undermine the less hard-line president, Hassan Rouhani.The destruction of the nuclear deal will also increase the Revolutionary Guards’ malign activities in the Middle East, making the challenge to Israel’s security and to America’s other allies even more difficult. These activities, in turn, will increase American calls for military action against Iran as the only viable option, since no Iranian will be able to enter new negotiations with the United States any time soon.The march to military conflict will be hard to stop, especially with Mr. Bolton leading the National Security Council.Beyond this horror show, the decision to destroy the Iran deal will also pound yet another nail into the coffin of the trans-Atlantic relationship. Mr. Trump has so far laid the task of “fixing” the deal at the feet of Britain, France and Germany, America’s European partners in the nuclear negotiations. He has demanded that they agree to new language on Iran’s ballistic missile development and inspections of Iranian military installations, and he has asked for a change in the timeline of the nuclear deal so that the restrictions on Iran will not expire. In essence, he has asked Europe for help changing the terms of the deal itself.The Europeans’ greatest objection is on the issue of the “sunset.” They believe, accurately, that Iran has committed to never obtaining a nuclear weapon, is complying with the terms of the deal, and there are mechanisms in the deal to both review and sanction if it becomes necessary. European diplomats rightly feel that Mr. Trump is demanding that they solve a political problem he created by campaigning against the deal.Mr. Trump’s nixing of the deal won’t do America much good with the rest of the world, either. Important allies and partners, like South Korea, Japan and India, greatly reduced their reliance on Iranian oil in service to the negotiations that produced the nuclear agreement. Sabotaging the deal will sour these relationships. Moreover, these countries will balk at economic sanctions on Iran that are reimposed in the absence of diplomacy. Mr. Trump may get some level of compliance thanks to the reach of American banking sanctions, but he will also spawn distrust and resentment, and push other countries closer to China as a more reliable financial partner.Killing the Iran deal will also be an early blow to the forthcoming nuclear negotiations with North Korea. Mr. Trump most likely believes that nixing the Iran accord will somehow show North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, that he does not make “bad” deals. In reality, Mr. Kim will wonder if he can believe in any agreement offered by an American president.Finally, if the White House rips up the Iran deal, it will give the United States exactly what it needs least: international isolation. The deal was negotiated by the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China, coordinated by the European Union, and endorsed by a 15-to-0 vote in the United Nations Security Council. Mr. Trump will not isolate Iran by nixing the deal; he will isolate America and lead its partners and allies to consider China and Russia as more dependable, predictable partners, even absent Western values.Nothing about this decision will increase American security. It will be a leap into the unknown, with devastating consequences. Once lost, the hard-won trust and faith in America will not be easily regained. Mr. Bolton and Mr. Trump should not make this huge mistake.Wendy R. Sherman, a former under secretary of state for political affairs, was the United States’ lead negotiator for the Iran nuclear agreement. She is the author of the forthcoming “Not For the Faint of Heart: Lessons in Courage, Power and Persistence.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 5:18 A.M. E.D.T.
YORK, England —  Nestle is launching a lower-sugar Milkybar made with a new version of the sweetener which could help ease the $185 billion confectionery industry's growing public health headache.Milkybar Wowsomes, a new more expensive take on the 81-year-old white chocolate made famous by the gun-slinging Milkybar Kid ads, will be on shelves in Britain and Ireland in coming weeks.The world's largest packaged food company says the new bars have 30 percent less sugar than a typical chocolate bar, helped by the use of Nestle's new ingredient, sugar that has been physically altered to be lighter and dissolve faster. But they have only 3 percent fewer calories, due to extra natural ingredients.The new sugar, first discussed publicly in 2016, partly addresses one of Big Food's toughest challenges - how to make junk food healthy but keep it tasty.Advertisement"Health is important, but ... many consumers are not ready to give up taste," Vontobel analyst Jean-Philippe Bertschy said. "If you could have a tablet of chocolate with the same taste with 30 percent less sugar, I think consumers would jump on it."AdvertisementNestle's marketing chief says the aim of the new chocolate, which underwent more than 300 recipe tweaks, is to give parents the option of a better treat for their children.Unlike the original plain white Milkybar chocolate, Wowsomes have a chocolate shell around a creamy center containing both the lighter sugar and crisped oat cereal."We felt it was important to signal that this brand is evolving and answering new consumer trends," Patrice Bula, head of marketing, told Reuters.Nestle shares were up 1.4 percent on Tuesday.Nestle is under shareholder pressure to accelerate sales after six years of slowing growth, with the sector struggling as consumers seek fresher foods and flock to new, independent brands seen as healthier or more ethical.Governments are also cracking down on sugar to help fight obesity, but taxes, like the one coming into effect in Britain next week, generally concentrate on soft drinks.Companies like Nestle are trying to stay ahead. Next month it is rolling out San Pellegrino soft drinks with the low-calorie sugar substitute stevia, which will keep the fruit-flavored drinks below the new British tax threshold.Nestle's new invention is not for use in drinks and for now, it is just in confectionery - one of the toughest categories to reformulate, as chocolate can be up to 55 percent sugar.AdvertisementSUGAR RUSHNestle executives said it was too early to specify how much this development would curb sugar purchases, although the company is looking to cut back over time.Although the move by one of the world's largest sugar buyers will not impact demand overnight, it may serve as a litmus test for other manufacturers, industry sources said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Nestle's business in the UK and Ireland has already taken out 10,400 tonnes of sugar from its portfolio since 2015. A long-term move away from sugar could spell disaster for farmers in top producing countries like India and Brazil, which together produce over 65 million tonnes of the sweetener each year. Global production continues to rise, outstripping demand and hurting prices. Benchmark raw sugar prices have slid 17 percent so far this year, after falling over 22 percent last year. http://tmsnrt.rs/2DIcmEGFollowing the UK test, Nestle hopes to roll the sugar out elsewhere, focusing first on childrens' confectionery brands."We have quite a few brands in a lot of markets in Latin America, but also in Europe and Asia that could use that technology," Bula said.The company declined to say how much the project had cost, but for Jas Scott de Martinville, head of confectionery research and development and the product technology center in the northern English city of York, where the chocolate was developed, it was money well spent."Every time you create something as break-through as this, you learn so much ... Our scientists in Switzerland will use the knowledge gained to help us advance in other categories."In 2016, Nestle said the product had the potential to reduce total sugar by up to 40 percent in confectionery. Milkybar Wowsomes have only a 30 percent reduction, partly because the chocolate shell utilizes regular sugar.AdvertisementPOROUS PARTICLESNestle says the new sugar is made by spraying a mixture of sugar, milk powder and water into warm air which forms a porous sugar structure that melts more quickly, meaning that less sugar can be used for the same amount of sweetness.The idea is similar to that behind SODA-LO Salt Microspheres, which Tate & Lyle launched in 2012, with  hollow spheres that allow for sodium reduction.Most packaged food makers have initiatives aimed at making their products healthier, but some say there is a limit."It would not make sense to cut sugar in all our chocolate by 2-3 percent or to use stevia everywhere," Lindt & Spruengli CEO Dieter Weisskopf said this month. "That would harm the taste."(Additional reporting by Chris Prentice in New York and Silke Koltrowitz in Zurich; Editing by Alexander Smith)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 25, 2018, 1:50 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Reaction after Australia's Steve Smith, who has stepped down as captain, confessed on Saturday that the team's "leadership group" had hatched a plan to alter the condition of the ball during the third day of the third test against South Africa.MALCOLM TURNBULL, Prime Minister of Australia"Shocked and bitterly disappointed by the news from South Africa. It seemed completely beyond belief that the Australian cricket team had been involved in cheating. Our cricketers are role models and cricket is synonymous with fair play. How can our team be engaged in cheating like this? It beggars belief."JAMES SUTHERLAND, Cricket Australia chief"To our Australian cricket fans. We are sorry. We are sorry that you had to wake up this morning to the news ... that our Australian men's cricket team and our captain admitted to conduct that is outside both the laws of our game and spirit of cricket."This behaviour calls into question the integrity of the team and Cricket Australia... we share your anger and disappointment.Advertisement"Cricket Australia and Australian cricket fans expect certain standards of conduct from cricketers representing our country, and on this occasion these standards have not been met."AdvertisementDAVID RICHARDSON, International Cricket Council chief executive"The decision made by the leadership group of the Australian team to act in this way is clearly contrary to the spirit of the game, risks causing significant damage to the integrity of the match, the players and the sport itself and is therefore ‘serious’ in nature."MICHAEL CLARKE, former Australia captain"It's a terrible day for Australian cricket. I can't believe the leadership group have got a young kid playing in his eighth test match to do this."TIM PAINE, Australia stand-in captain"It's been (a) horrible 24 hours, difficult for all of us. I want to take this opportunity to apologise to our fans for what has happened."ADAM GILCHRIST, former Australia wicketkeeper"Australian cricket is the laughing stock of the sporting world."SHANE WARNE, former Australia spinner"Disappointed in Steve Smith as captain to go out there and do that. To me it was unAustralian. I don't care who you are you can't tamper with the ball."FAF DU PLESSIS, South Africa captain, who in 2016 was found guilty of ball shining by applying saliva after deliberately sucking a mint."Ball shining versus ball tampering are two very different situations and one is much more serious than the other."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.OTTIS GIBSON, South Africa coach"I'm shocked at what's gone on. I've never seen anything as blatant as that."AdvertisementSHAUN POLLOCK, former South Africa paceman"It was pre-meditated and they've been caught. They have been shown to cheat."GRAEME SMITH, former South Africa captain"You've got to ask some tough questions of Steve Smith and (Australia coach) Darren Lehmann. They’ve obviously driven this process, they’re the leadership."DALE STEYN, South Africa paceman"Nothing in professional sport is done without the consent of your captain and coach."KEVIN PIETERSEN, former England batsman"The leaderships groups jobs (sic) are untenable. They've disgraced a great cricketing nation & test cricket."MICHAEL ATHERTON, former England captain"They are in crisis. This certainly will not be the end of it. There will be consequences for senior members of the team."BOB WILLIS, former England paceman"I would be very surprised if everyone in the dressing room didn't know what was going on. They were so naive to get caught."MICHAEL VAUGHAN, former England captain"Disgraceful behaviour by senior pros."STUART BROAD, England paceman"I saw Steve Smith in his press conference say it's the first time they've tried it - which, to me, it's surprising why they'd change a method that's been working."MOHAMMAD KAIF, former India batsman"Oh no! Bancroft. Very embarrassing. From the looks of it, this is not on. Haven't seen a series marred by controversies like this one in a long long time."Advertisement(Reporting by Neil Robinson, editing by Pritha Sarkar and Ken Ferris)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:07 P.M. E.D.T.
YORK, England —  Nestle is launching a lower-sugar Milkybar made with a new version of the sweetener which could help ease the $185 billion confectionery industry's growing public health headache.Milkybar Wowsomes, a new more expensive take on the 81-year-old white chocolate made famous by the gun-slinging Milkybar Kid ads, will be on shelves in Britain and Ireland in coming weeks.The world's largest packaged food company says the new bars have 30 percent less sugar than a typical chocolate bar, helped by the use of Nestle's new ingredient, sugar that has been physically altered to be lighter and dissolve faster. But they have only 3 percent fewer calories, due to extra natural ingredients.The new sugar, first discussed publicly in 2016, partly addresses one of Big Food's toughest challenges - how to make junk food healthy but keep it tasty.Advertisement"Health is important, but ... many consumers are not ready to give up taste," Vontobel analyst Jean-Philippe Bertschy said. "If you could have a tablet of chocolate with the same taste with 30 percent less sugar, I think consumers would jump on it."AdvertisementNestle's marketing chief says the aim of the new chocolate, which underwent more than 300 recipe tweaks, is to give parents the option of a healthier treat for their children.Unlike the original plain white Milkybar chocolate, Wowsomes have a chocolate shell around a creamy center containing both the lighter sugar and crisped oat cereal."We felt it was important to signal that this brand is evolving and answering new consumer trends," Patrice Bula, head of marketing, told Reuters.Nestle is under shareholder pressure to accelerate sales after six years of slowing growth, with the sector struggling as consumers seek fresher foods and flock to new, independent brands seen as healthier or more ethical.Governments are also cracking down on sugar to help fight obesity, but taxes, like the one coming into effect in Britain next week, generally concentrate on soft drinks.Companies like Nestle are trying to stay ahead. Next month it is rolling out San Pellegrino soft drinks with the low-calorie sugar substitute stevia, which will keep the fruit-flavored drinks below the new British tax threshold.Nestle's new invention is not for use in drinks and for now, it is just in confectionery - one of the toughest categories to reformulate, as chocolate can be up to 55 percent sugar.AdvertisementSUGAR RUSHNestle executives said it was too early to specify how much this development would curb sugar purchases, although the company is looking to cut back over time.Although the move by one of the world's largest sugar buyers will not impact demand overnight, it may serve as a litmus test for other manufacturers, industry sources said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Nestle's business in the UK and Ireland has already taken out 10,400 tonnes of sugar from its portfolio since 2015. A long-term move away from sugar could spell disaster for farmers in top producing countries like India and Brazil, which together produce over 65 million tonnes of the sweetener each year. Global production continues to rise, outstripping demand and hurting prices. Benchmark raw sugar prices have slid 17 percent so far this year, after falling over 22 percent last year. http://tmsnrt.rs/2DIcmEGFollowing the UK test, Nestle hopes to roll the sugar out elsewhere, focusing first on childrens' confectionery brands."We have quite a few brands in a lot of markets in Latin America, but also in Europe and Asia that could use that technology," Bula said.The company declined to say how much the project had cost, but for Jas Scott de Martinville, head of confectionery research and development and the product technology center in the northern English city of York, where the chocolate was developed, it was money well spent."Every time you create something as break-through as this, you learn so much ... Our scientists in Switzerland will use the knowledge gained to help us advance in other categories."In 2016, Nestle said the product had the potential to reduce total sugar by up to 40 percent in confectionery. Milkybar Wowsomes have only a 30 percent reduction, partly because the chocolate shell utilizes regular sugar.AdvertisementPOROUS PARTICLESNestle says the new sugar is made by spraying a mixture of sugar, milk powder and water into warm air which forms a porous sugar structure that melts more quickly, meaning that less sugar can be used for the same amount of sweetness.The idea is similar to that behind SODA-LO Salt Microspheres, which Tate & Lyle launched in 2012, with  hollow spheres that allow for sodium reduction.Most packaged food makers have initiatives aimed at making their products healthier, but some say there is a limit."It would not make sense to cut sugar in all our chocolate by 2-3 percent or to use stevia everywhere," Lindt & Spruengli CEO Dieter Weisskopf said this month. "That would harm the taste."(Additional reporting by Chris Prentice in New York and Silke Koltrowitz in Zurich; Editing by Alexander Smith)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:37 P.M. E.D.T.
SINGAPORE/SAN FRANCISCO —  Uber Technologies Inc has agreed to sell its Southeast Asian business to bigger regional rival Grab, the ride-hailing firms said on Monday, marking the U.S. company's second retreat from an Asian market.The industry's first big consolidation in Southeast Asia, home to about 640 million people, puts pressure on Indonesia's Go-Jek, which is backed by Alphabet Inc's Google and China's Tencent Holdings Ltd.A shake-up in Asia's fiercely competitive ride-hailing industry became likely earlier this year when Japan-based SoftBank Group Corp's Vision Fund made a multi-billion dollar investment in Uber. SoftBank owns stakes in most major global ride services companies, and executives have indicated they favored consolidation.SoftBank already had investments in Grab and India's Ola, and Vision Fund Chief Executive Rajeev Misra had urged Uber to focus less on Asia and more on profitable markets such as Latin America, a person familiar with the matter said.AdvertisementGrab President Ming Maa told Reuters that SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son was "highly supportive" of the deal, which he called "a very independent decision by both" Grab and Uber.AdvertisementUber will take a 27.5 percent stake in Singapore-based Grab and Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi will join Grab's board. Grab was last valued at $6 billion after a financing round in July."It will help us double down on our plans for growth as we invest heavily in our products and technology," Khosrowshahi said in a statement.The Competition Commission of Singapore (CCS) said it has the mandate to review whether any mergers will result in a "substantial lessening of competition" and take any action to intervene in the deal, but it has yet to receive notice from the companies.The deal will help bolster Grab's meal-delivery service, which will merge with Uber Eats, compete with Go-Jek. Go-Jek has become a dominant player and powerful rival in Indonesia, the region's biggest economy, and it has rapidly expanded beyond ride hailing to digital payments, food delivery and on-demand cleaning and massage.Ride-hailing companies throughout Asia have relied heavily on discounts and promotions, driving down profit margins and increasing pressure for consolidation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Uber, which is preparing for a potential initial public offering in 2019, lost $4.5 billion last year and is facing fierce competition at home in the United States and across Asia, as well as a regulatory crackdown in Europe.Uber invested $700 million in its Southeast Asia business.Uber previously sold operations in China and Russia to local rivals under former CEO Travis Kalanick. The deal with Grab is the first operations sale by Khosrowshahi, who started in September.MORE CONSOLIDATIONBut Uber's CEO does not want to make these mergers a pattern, and said he has no plans to do another sale in which it consolidates its operations in exchange for a minority stake in a rival.Advertisement"It is fair to ask whether consolidation is now the strategy of the day, given this is the third deal of its kind ... The answer is no," Khosrowshahi said in a note to employees that was shared with Reuters."One of the potential dangers of our global strategy is that we take on too many battles across too many fronts and with too many competitors."SoftBank is also an investor in India's Ola, another competitive and costly market where rivals have heavily subsidized rides in an effort to gain market share. But a source familiar with Uber's strategy said the company was going to step up its battle with Ola in India, where Uber has close to 60 percent of the market, by some estimates, but is losing money.SoftBank's Misra sees opportunities for mergers and joint ventures between SoftBank-backed ride-hailing companies, particularly for collaborating on research and development, but the investor would never get actively involved with management decisions, the person familiar with the matter said.Uber includes the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Latin America among its core markets – regions where it has more than 50 percent market share and is profitable or sees a path to profitability.(Reporting by Aradhana Aravindan in Singapore and Heather Somerville in San Francisco; writing by Miyoung Kim; editing by Peter Henderson, Stephen Coates and Lisa Shumaker)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By RAYMOND ZHONGMARCH 25, 2018
Uber, which for years spread across the globe with command-and-conquer rapaciousness, is pulling back from another major ride-hailing market.The company said on Sunday that it would sell its Southeast Asia ride and food-delivery businesses to Grab, a rival based in Singapore, in the latest move to shore up its finances and refocus its business ahead of a planned public listing.Uber will get a 27.5 percent stake in Grab in exchange. Uber’s chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, will join Grab’s board. Further financial terms were not disclosed.The détente in Southeast Asia, which is similar to deals Uber has made in China and Russia in recent years, comes at a time of larger changes at the company, based in San Francisco.AdvertisementSoftBank, the Japanese conglomerate that recently took a big stake in Uber, has also backed a host of its competitors, including Grab in Southeast Asia, Ola in India and Didi Chuxing, which bought Uber’s China business in 2016. That means SoftBank would rather these companies did not spend too much money competing against one another.AdvertisementUber’s exit from Southeast Asia, a region of more than 600 million people, also reflects the new direction the company is taking under Mr. Khosrowshahi, who replaced Travis Kalanick as chief executive last year.Mr. Khosrowshahi has forsworn his predecessor’s infamously pugnacious way of doing business. And with a mandate to take Uber public, he has set out to repair relations with regulators, fix a troubled workplace culture and calm Wall Street about the company’s financial prospects. Uber said it lost $1.1 billion in the last three months of 2017, somewhat less than it lost in the preceding quarter.“It is fair to ask whether consolidation is now the strategy of the day,” Mr. Khosrowshahi wrote in an email to staff. “The answer is no.”He continued: “One of the potential dangers of our global strategy is that we take on too many battles across too many fronts and with too many competitors. This transaction now puts us in a position to compete with real focus and weight in the core markets where we operate.”Grab was introduced in 2012 and now operates in eight Southeast Asian countries: Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. And it has put up a tough fight.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.With passengers in nearly 200 cities across the region, the company is aiming to be more than just a transportation provider. It wants its digital wallet, GrabPay, to replace cash as a way to pay for things at offline shops and restaurants. And in a region where many people lack credit histories or even bank accounts, Grab is undertaking a venture to make loans to consumers and small businesses. Data collected through Grab’s app, on users’ movements and transactions, is used to assess their creditworthiness.Grab also offers a wide variety of ways for people to get around. In Singapore, you can hop on a GrabShuttle that, like a public bus, will take you between points along a fixed route. In jam-packed Jakarta, you can use Grab’s app to hail a nearby motorbike taxi right off the street, forgoing the usual process of prebooking and waiting for the driver to arrive at your location.The company is generally regarded as the market leader in Southeast Asia. But in Indonesia, the region’s most populous country, it  is taking on Go-Jek, a local rival whose apps offer services, such as massages on demand and motorbike parcel deliveries, that go beyond just rides. Go-Jek’s investors include Google and Tencent, the Chinese internet conglomerate.AdvertisementIn an interview, Ming Maa, Grab’s president, said that the deal with Uber would help Grab move closer to profitability, although he declined to give specifics. One key benefit of combining with Uber, Mr. Maa said, is that it immediately expands Grab’s food-delivery operations.“That has massive, massive benefits to our consumer base,” he said, “but is also a key driver for our mobile payments business.”For Uber, ceding Southeast Asia still leaves it with plenty of challengers elsewhere in the world. Didi Chuxing, based in Beijing, invested alongside SoftBank in Grab last year. It recently raised money from SoftBank and other investors at a valuation of $56 billion — higher than the $48 billion at which Uber was valued as part of last year’s stake sale to SoftBank.Now, Didi wants to go global. The company, whose full name is pronounced “dee-dee choo-SHING,” recently took control of 99, an Uber rival in Brazil, and is recruiting on LinkedIn ahead of a planned opening in Mexico.Didi is also aiming to expand soon into Japan — a market in which Uber, too, will make a big push this year, according to Mr. Khosrowshahi. SoftBank, despite being an investor in both Uber and Didi, announced recently that it would partner with Didi in Japan.Follow Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @zhonggg.A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Uber to Sell to Regional Rival in Southeast Asia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byQantas calls its first direct, nonstop Dreamliner flight from Perth to London a “game changer.”By Yonette JosephLONDON — Qantas Airways has made a giant leap forward in long-haul travel with an inaugural nonstop flight between Australia to Britain in less than 24 hours.Flight QF9 took off from Perth, in Western Australia, on March 24 and landed in London early the next day. Qantas’s chief executive, Alan Joyce, billed the trip as “historic” and “a game changer.”Here’s everything you need to know about the trip:The flight carried more than 200 passengers and 16 crew members.It took off around 7 p.m. Saturday and landed at 5.02 a.m. Sunday.The trip lasted just over 17 hours and covered about 9,009 miles.Of the more than 21,000 individual items loaded onto the aircraft for each flight between Perth and London, there are 330 peppermint tea bags and hundreds of chocolate biscuits.In 1947, Qantas says, a return flight from Sydney to London cost 525 pounds. Today, a return fare from Perth to London can cost about £900 in economy, it says.The flight was operated by four pilots during the journey, with one or two pilots resting at any one time. Capt. Lisa Norman commanded the flight. Also on board were Capt. Jeff Foote, First Officer Dave Summergreene and Second Officer Troy Lane, the airline said.“This is absolutely the pinnacle of my career,” Captain Norman told reporters. “No one has ever done this before. I’ve flown into Perth lots, and I’ve flown into London lots, but I’ve actually never joined the two dots together before.”Some passengers agreed to share data on their sleeping and activity patterns with researchers from the University of Sydney. They wore monitors that recorded data about their mental state, eating patterns and hydration levels.According to the airline, the “home style comfort food” menus for trips between Perth and London were designed to maintain hydration, aid sleep and reduce jet lag.Among the first passengers to emerge was Robert Williamson, a mining executive from Perth who had traveled in business class. He told The Independent, a British newspaper, “It was surprisingly good — above my expectation.” Peter Robinson, a builder from Liverpool, England, who lives in Perth and flew economy, pronounced the food “ordinary,” though he said the flight was “good, quicker than I thought.”The long haul across oceans and continents was made by a Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner called Emily. The Dreamliner is twice as fuel-efficient as the Boeing 747, and Emily is decorated with indigenous livery based on the artwork “Yam Dreaming” by Emily Kame Kngwarreye, Qantas said.To keep discomfort to a minimum, the airline said, the plane has features that improve air quality and lower cabin noise. Most aircraft have cabin air pressure equivalent to that of an altitude of 8,000 feet, but for the Dreamliner, Boeing cut that down to 6,000 feet — meaning it’s closer to conditions on the ground.The aircraft traveled over the Indian Ocean, Sri Lanka, the southern tip of India, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. Previous flights between Australia and Britain stopped at least once to refuel. But the 787 can travel from Perth to London with a full payload in one hop.The airline said the inaugural flight reduced travel time by cutting out stopovers and by taking advantage of favorable winds without having to factor in a midpoint in the Middle East or Asia on its flight path.Mr. Joyce said in a statement: “The original Kangaroo Route from Australia to London was named for the seven stops it made over four days back in 1947. Now we can do it in a single leap.”The reaction on social media was mostly positive.“We have a touchdown!!” wrote one Twitter user, Andrew Leong, who called it “a milestone in the aviation industry.”This is one of the longest commercial flight currently in operation, the airline says. The current record-holder for the world’s longest nonstop flight is Qatar Airways, which flies from Doha to Auckland, New Zealand: 9,025 miles. The Dubai service to Auckland from Emirates Airline clocks in at 8,823 miles.Singapore Airlines once claimed the world’s longest regular direct flight: more than 9,500 miles from Singapore to Newark, N.J. But that direct route was discontinued in 2013.Yonette Joseph is the London weekend editor. She was previously a breaking-news editor in New York and has worked for The Washington Post and The Miami Herald.  AdvertisementBy INYOUNG KANG and CHARLES McDERMIDMARCH 7, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Talk of a trade war, old-school news and an icon’s rebuke. Here’s what you need to know. • A gathering storm.Countries around the world are readying retaliation if President Trump signs off on stiff tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. He is expected to do so as soon as today.The European Union has announced its counterattack, including taxing U.S. goods like Harley-Davidsons and filing a challenge with the World Trade Organization.South Korea worries that tariffs will derail its efforts to denuclearize the North, and Mr. Trump’s fellow Republicans warned of their impact on key trading partners.AdvertisementHere’s a look at what Australia has to lose._____• The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum revoked a prestigious human rights award it had given to Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel laureate who is now Myanmar’s civilian leader.AdvertisementThe museum faulted Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi for failing “to condemn or stop the military’s brutal campaign” against the country’s minority Rohingya population.The decision is perhaps the strongest condemnation yet of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been increasingly criticized for the Myanmar military’s campaign of ethnic violence._____•  Kim Jong-un’s meeting with South Korean envoys this week was an eye-catching diplomatic debut for the enigmatic young dictator. Mr. Kim even surprised the South Koreans with his willingness to start negotiations on nuclear disarmament.Still, the path to talks is riddled with obstacles, including new U.S. sanctions on Mr. Kim’s government for use of a banned nerve agent in the assassination of his half brother in Malaysia last year.A drawn-out diplomatic process will be good for Beijing, delaying the possibility of war on its border.In today’s episode of “The Daily” podcast, our White House correspondent looks at what happened to the threat of nuclear war.South Korea says that the North is willing to talk about dismantling its atomic arsenal. What happened to the threat of nuclear war?_____• The British authorities confirmed that a former Russian spy and his daughter were poisoned by a nerve agent in England this week. Suspicion is now rampant that the episode was an assassination — and that Russia may be responsible.AdvertisementThough officials insist that it is far too soon to lay blame, Britain must confront the possibility that once again, an attack on British soil was carried out by the government of President Vladimir Putin.The former spy, Sergei Skripal, 66, and his daughter, Yulia, 33, remain in critical condition._____• In honor of International Women’s Day — an official holiday in many countries, including Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam and much of Central Asia — here are two uplifting stories:Sunitha Krishnan works for sex trafficking victims in India. “I don’t deny that I was a victim,” she said. “But my healing was self-determined, and that is why I call myself a survivor.”And Hoda Katebi is the founder of Joojoo Azad, a politically charged fashion blog that challenges stereotypes of hijab-wearing Muslim women._____What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Our tech columnist skipped digital news for two months, reading only newspapers. His old-school experiment led to some interesting conclusions. (“Every problem we battle in understanding the news is exacerbated by plugging into the social-media herd.”)• Leaders of the 11-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership are preparing to sign the free trade pact today in Chile. They are hoping to add more members, possibly Thailand, South Korea and even the U.K. among others.• Peter Thiel, the billionaire Facebook board member and Trump supporter, shared his takes on politics, Silicon Valley and more.• U.S. stocks were weaker. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In Papua New Guinea, aftershocks killed at least 18 people as the country was still recovering from the earthquake that killed more than 100 people last week. [The New York Times]• Turkey took an extraordinary step: asking the U.S. to stop Kurdish commanders from sending forces to Afrin, a Kurdish enclave in western Syria, to fight against Turkish troops. [The New York Times]Advertisement• Mount Shinmoedake erupted in southern Japan, spewing ash over a wide region. It is the volcano’s largest eruption in seven years. [The Asahi Shimbun]• A British diver posted a video of a sea of plastic off the coast of Bali. The Indonesian island has been inundated with plastic waste during the annual rainy season. [The Guardian]• “We hope and pray every day.” Malaysia’s transport minister said his country is determined to find MH370, the passenger jet that disappeared four years ago today with 239 people on board. [The Star]• Hog wild: A boar sneaked into a mosque in Malaysia, injuring a man and wreaking havoc before being shot dead by a member of the congregation. [Malay Mail]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Leave ordinary roasted potatoes behind with a little lemon, smoked paprika and rosemary.• Take the stress out of weeknight cooking with this useful multitasker.• Find a great rug that won’t decimate your budget.• Balkrishna Doshi, 90, a low-cost housing pioneer from India, won this year’s Pritzker Prize, the highest honor in architecture. “Architecture is not a static building,” he said, “it’s a living organism.” Above, an art gallery designed by Mr. Doshi.• DaDong, a legendary Beijing restaurant reputed to serve the tastiest Peking duck, opened recently in Manhattan. The result is … satisfactory, our restaurant critic writes.Advertisement• And a soccer match between Iraq and Saudi Arabia was the first major game on Iraqi soil since 1990. “We see something like this and finally we feel hope this situation will get better,” an Iraqi fan told us at the stadium.They were sworn into service, required to wear regulation uniforms and saw the horrors of war.But when the Hello Girls returned home to the U.S. after World War I, they were largely forgotten.Today is International Women’s Day, a global recognition of women’s achievements. We’re looking back more than 100 years to recognize the place in history of a group of 223 women.In 1917, on the eve of World War I, the U.S. government drafted 2.8 million men into military service. The Army realized that its success would rely on the Allies’ use of a new technology: the telephone.Enter the Hello Girls, a group of bilingual telephone operators selected for working the switchboards in France, connecting the front lines with supply depots and military command. They often handled over 150,000 calls per day.But because they were women, the U.S. government denied them veteran status for more than 60 years after the war.“The unfortunate reality is their service wasn’t officially recognized with veteran status until 1979 when a small fraction of those who served were still alive,” a senior curator at the National World War I Museum and Memorial said. “To achieve that point of hard won recognition took a monumental effort.”Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. AdvertisementBrowse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSMARCH 24, 2018, 1:35 P.M. E.D.T.
SINGAPORE —  Tony Fernandes, the co-founder of AirAsia Bhd, is seeking to transform Asia's biggest budget airline into an asset-light, digitally focused firm after the $1 billion (£0.8 billion) sale of its leasing business, in an effort to foster sustainable growth.AirAsia, which pioneered budget air travel in Asia along the lines of Ryanair Holdings in Europe, is now building a sprawling empire that includes a payments company, logistics firm, food and beverages brands and a loyalty programme.Leveraging the profusion of customer data from its 65 million-plus passengers, the focal point of the strategy is a digital push that exceeds in scale that of regional budget airlines like Indonesia's Lion Group and Cebu Pacific of the Philippines.AirAsia will also be going head-to-head against flag carriers such as Singapore Airlines which is ramping up investments in digital technology.AdvertisementThe goal is to offset the volatile earnings from the cyclical airline business."The biggest asset is our data," Fernandes told Reuters in an interview. "And we're going to monetise that data over a series of joint ventures in three kinds of pools."AdvertisementThat includes turning its loyalty programme points into a more formal currency through an initial coin offering, building a bigger logistics business and growing its content offering.LOSS OF LEASINGIn the near term however, analysts say the move by one of Airbus's biggest global customers to part-lease its current and ordered fleet of 500-plus planes could hurt its profits and leave it exposed to the risk of higher lease rates."The leasing arm was a stable low risk business," said Ngoi Se Chai, a partner at Hong Kong-based Oaklands Path Capital Management. "Now that that's sold, earnings will come down and become more volatile. I think they sold something they shouldn't have sold."While the sale proceeds from the leasing business will be used to reduce debt, the bulk will be paid out as special dividends, potentially limiting the upside in a stock that has more than quadrupled since hitting a seven-year low in late 2015."The amount of money generated from this exercise could almost wipe out AirAsia's entire debts, so it would appear a positive move," said Shukor Yusof, founder of consultancy Endau Analytics, but he noted it faces risks associated with higher leasing rates.Leasing had accounted for around 20 percent of AirAsia's revenue, with a similar share earned from non-ticket items like baggage fees and food sales.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The aim is to lift revenue from so-called ancillaries by 12 percent this year.AirAsia plans to launch remittance and lending products in Southeast Asia, through its BigPay debit card and mobile app in Singapore after the recent launch in Malaysia, BigPay's group CEO Chris Davison said.But for now, the company's non-flying revenue lags global low-cost leaders like Spirit Airlines in the United States and Ryanair and Wizz Air Holdings in Europe that receive 40 percent of revenue from ancillaries, said Jay Sorensen, president of U.S.-based consultancy IdeaWorksCompany.AdvertisementHe said AirAsia's food, in-flight Wi-Fi and loyalty programmes were good offerings but its approach in pricing add-ons was not maximising revenue because it only offered two bundled choices rather than three."The best practice today is to present three choices at the same time, based upon a good, better and best model."GOING DIGITALThe digital push is front and centre as Fernandes restructures AirAsia into a listed group that oversees stakes in multiple airlines in Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines, India, Japan and soon Vietnam and China and digital ventures rather than having the listing based on its Malaysian airline.Combined, AirAsia forecasts the digital businesses will account for 7.6 percent of revenue this year, nearly half of its ancillary sales.Former CEO Aireen Omar, who became deputy group CEO in January, is overseeing the non-airline businesses in a single entity that will ultimately seek a U.S. listing.Corrine Png, CEO of research firm Crucial Perspective said AirAsia could triple its share price if it can successfully collect and monetize its Big Data."AirAsia's current valuations are low as investors see it as a cyclical airline," she said. "However, as its long-term revenue and earnings growth prospects improve, equity investors will start to value AirAsia like a growth stock."(Reporting by Anshuman Daga and Jamie Freed; Additional reporting by Jennifer Hughes in HONG KONG and Liz Lee in KUALA LUMPUR; Editing by Shri Navaratnam)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Ronald S. LauderAs the state of Israel approaches its 70th anniversary, I am filled with pride as I watch the vulnerable Jewish state of my childhood evolve into the strong and prosperous nation it is today.As president of the World Jewish Congress, I believe that Israel is central to every Jew’s identity, and I feel it is my second home. Yet today I fear for the future of the nation I love.True, the Israeli Army is stronger than any other army in the Middle East. And yes, Israel’s economic prowess is world renowned: In China, India and Silicon Valley, Israel’s technology, innovation and entrepreneurship are venerated.But the Jewish democratic state faces two grave threats that I believe could endanger its very existence.The first threat is the possible demise of the two-state solution. I am conservative and a Republican, and I have supported the Likud party since the 1980s. But the reality is that 13 million people live between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. And almost half of them are Palestinian.If current trends continue, Israel will face a stark choice: Grant Palestinians full rights and cease being a Jewish state or rescind their rights and cease being a democracy.To avoid these unacceptable outcomes, the only path forward is the two-state solution.President Trump and his team are wholly committed to Middle East peace. Arab states such as Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are now closer to Israel than they have ever been, and contrary to news media reports, senior Palestinian leaders are, they have personally told me, ready to begin direct negotiations immediately.But some Israelis and Palestinians are pushing initiatives that threaten to derail this opportunity.Palestinian incitement and intransigence are destructive. But so, too, are annexation plans, pushed by those on the right, and extensive Jewish settlement-building beyond the separation line. Over the last few years, settlements in the West Bank on land that in any deal is likely to become part of a Palestinian state, have continued to grow and expand. Such blinkered Israeli policies are creating an irreversible one-state reality.The second, two-prong threat is Israel’s capitulation to religious extremists and the growing disaffection of the Jewish diaspora. Most Jews outside of Israel are not accepted in the eyes of the Israeli ultra-Orthodox, who control ritual life and holy places in the state. Seven million of the eight million Jews living in America, Europe, South America, Africa and Australia are Modern Orthodox, Conservative, Reform or secular. Many of them have come to feel, particularly over the last few years, that the nation that they have supported politically, financially and spiritually is turning its back on them.By submitting to the pressures exerted by a minority in Israel, the Jewish state is alienating a large segment of the Jewish people. The crisis is especially pronounced among the younger generation, which is predominantly secular. An increasing number of Jewish millennials — particularly in the United States — are distancing themselves from Israel because its policies contradict their values. The results are unsurprising: assimilation, alienation and a severe erosion of the global Jewish community’s affinity for the Jewish homeland.Over the last decade I have visited Jewish communities in over 40 countries. Members in every one of them expressed to me their concern and anxiety about Israel’s future and its relationship to diaspora Jewry.Many non-Orthodox Jews, myself included, feel that the spread of state-enforced religiosity in Israel is turning a modern, liberal nation into a semi-theocratic one. A vast majority of Jews around the world do not accept the exclusion of women in certain religious practices, strict conversion laws or the ban of egalitarian prayer at the Western Wall. They are bewildered by the impression that Israel is abandoning the humanistic vision of Theodor Herzl and taking on a character that does not suit its own core values or the spirit of the 21st century.The leadership of the Jewish world always honors the choices made by the Israeli voter and acts in concert with Israel’s democratically elected government. I’m also keenly aware that Israelis are on the front lines, making sacrifices and risking their own lives every day so that Jews worldwide will survive and thrive. I count myself forever in their debt.But sometimes loyalty requires a friend to speak out and express an inconvenient truth. And the truth is that the specter of a one-state solution and the growing rift between Israel and the diaspora are endangering the future of the country I love so dearly.We are at a crossroads. The choices that Israel makes in the coming years will determine the destiny of our one and only Jewish state — and the continued unity of our cherished people.We must change course. We must push for a two-state solution and find common ground among ourselves so that we can ensure the success of our beloved nation.Ronald S. Lauder is the president of the World Jewish Congress.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
Books of The Times By                     
 PARUL SEHGAL
 
MARCH 20, 2018
Imagine, if you can, a book beloved by Simone Weil and Steve Bannon. An apologia for war embraced as a classic of pacifism. A holy book admired by scientists.Thoreau took it with him to Walden Pond. Himmler carried a copy in his pocket. Whitman supposedly kept his under his pillow as he lay dying. Gandhi declared it to be his guide — as did his assassin, Nathuram Godse, who carried it with him to the gallows.The Bhagavad Gita, composed between 400 B.C. and A.D. 200 and newly translated by the poet Amit Majmudar in “Godsong,” is the most enigmatic of religious texts, a masterpiece of moral ambiguity. Its 700 verses are a philosophical interlude nestled in the blood-soaked Sanskrit epic “The Mahabharata.” The story begins when Prince Arjuna — after Hamlet, literature’s greatest ditherer — balks from battle. His family is at war with each other, he is obligated to fight, but how can he? How can he kill his own kin? The god Krishna, disguised as his charioteer, incites him to action, explaining that it is Arjuna’s divine duty, as a member of the warrior caste. Along the way the poem offers a compendium of Hindu metaphysics of the era — the obligation to one’s duty (dharma), the imperative to work without care for reward — and the thicket of elliptical, contradictory remarks on violence that have found it such unlikely devotees.When Krishna reveals his true identity, the awe-struck Arjuna asks him the question we might pose to the Bhagavad Gita itself: “If you are so many ways at once, who are you, really?”AdvertisementMajmudar, who lives in Ohio and is a radiologist as well as a writer, had been familiar with the Gita (as it is commonly called) since childhood but was surprised by a sudden surge of religious feeling later in life. “It is an incongruity I hide from the other rich, bespectacled Indian doctors of my cohort, entering middle age like me, trying to stay fit like me, suburban and Midwestern like me,” he writes.To love the Gita is apparently to be seized by a desire to translate it. There have been countless retellings and at least 300 English versions since it was first translated in 1785 by a merchant with the East India Company — who made it sound like a Hindu Bible, full of “thee” and “thou.”Majmudar embarked on a crash course in Sanskrit to create “Godsong.” Each word became its own research project, the radiologist turned translator peering past the surface of language in search of the inner workings of the text.AdvertisementThe translation is ravishing and faithful, marked by what Nabokov once called “the precision of a poet and the imagination of a scientist.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Majmudar has a gift for imagery (“Krishna fanned and shivered the universe like a peacock”) but he writes for the ear above all, retaining the traditional couplets and meter of the shloka structure. He remembers the Gita was intended to be sung (“Godsong” is a literal translation of “Bhagavad Gita”).For Emerson, the glory of the Gita was its voice: “large, serene, consistent, the voice of an old intelligence which in another age and climate had pondered and thus disposed of the same questions which exercise us.” Majmudar’s Krishna commands the same awe, but he feels closer to us. The Gita, as Majmudar points out, “imagined a relationship in which the soul and God are equals. It’s a relationship mostly missing from every other scripture: friendship.” We encounter a more human Krishna, who can turn querulous or even insecure as he makes his revelations: “Since you aren’t scoffing / I’ll proclaim to you the utmost secret.”This can, on occasion, go too far. A feeling of intimacy with the divine is one thing, to have Krishna sounding like a teenage vampire from “Twilight” another: “Hear me out again. My highest word, / the secret of all secrets: / I love you. Hard.”The verses of the Gita are traditionally accompanied by commentaries. Majmudar uses this space to discuss his faith and his translation decisions, as well as to make a curious assertion: “I prefer to let my Gita float free of history or geography,” he writes. “Historical quibbling isn’t just irrelevant when it comes to scripture; it’s a buzz kill.”This is strange — not least because the religious concepts in the Gita, like karma and dharma, are not static, as historians like Wendy Doniger have pointed out; they emerged at “particular moments in Indian history, for particular reasons, and then continue to be alive — which is to say, to change.” It’s especially odd given that Majmudar engages passionately with historical quibbling when it comes to issues of translation. What he doesn’t want to discuss, it seems, is historical quibbling when it comes to social issues. What he doesn’t want to discuss is caste.He does reckon with it, though — briefly, defensively. He claims the text mentions “differences but no inequalities. In other words, Krishna introduced differences among people; human beings attached relative values to these differences, introducing inequality.” This is rather strenuous special pleading. The Gita may argue for the essential equality of all beings but even in Majmudar’s own translation it also includes passages that regard intercaste marriage and mingling with explicit horror: “The women once corrupted, Krishna / The colors pour together … codes of caste, eternal / family laws — obliterated.”“Fault envelops all / Endeavors, as smoke does fire,” the Gita tells us. These are quibbles of my own, but they can hardly be helped. “Godsong” reveals how beautifully this 2,000-year-old book lends itself to the careful, loving work of translation. It’s impossible not to wonder what the even more loving work of scrutiny might bring to bear.Follow Parul Sehgal on Twitter: @parul_sehgal.GodsongA Verse Translation of the Bhagavad Gita, With CommentaryBy Amit Majmudar210 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.A version of this review appears in print on March 21, 2018, on Page C6 of the New York edition with the headline: Translating a Holy Book for a Modern Age.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Exclusive By                     
JULIE LASKY

MARCH 16, 2018

CreditEmily Gilbert for The New York Times        Clem Labine bought his Brooklyn brownstone in Park Slope more than 50 years ago for the then-princely sum of $25,000.The 1883 house at 199 Berkeley Place had been turned into a single-room occupancy rental building, but over the past five decades, Mr. Labine has fully restored the four-story structure, turning it into a 19th-century ornamental wonderland. Now looking to downsize, he and his wife, Deirdre Lawrence, are putting it on the market for $4 million.It was on New Year’s Eve in 1966 that Mr. Labine, a chemical engineer working at an industry magazine, went to a party on the Upper West Side, hoping only to “get sloshed,” as he put it, and enjoy himself. There, he met Evelyn and Everett Ortner, a couple who lived in Park Slope and were passionate about reviving old Brooklyn brownstones that had fallen into disrepair. By the end of the night, Mr. Labine had agreed — largely out of politeness — to consider shopping for one.“I was living in Queens, in Maspeth,” he said recently in the parlor of the home he ended up buying near the Ortners. “Everyone thought I was crazy for moving here because the neighborhood was a bit dicey.”AdvertisementLike many of its neighbors, the house had been subdivided, with partitions thrown up and pocket doors nailed shut to create small units. But the Minton tiles around the firebox opening in what is now the dining room were intact. Each tile portrayed a scene from “Idylls of the King,” Alfred Lord Tennyson’s 19th-century rendition of the legend of King Arthur.Mr. Labine happened to be a Tennyson fan. The slightly more than $25,000 that he paid for the house shattered the record for the street.Over the years, the house has been transformed, with carved wood, stained glass and hand-painted friezes that evoke the 19th-century Aesthetic Movement.AdvertisementMr. Labine, 81, restored the home with the help of local artists and artisans and sometimes his children. As he did so, the home renovated him. From its very bowels (well, technically, a garden-floor office), he founded two publications about architecture and preservation: Old-House Journal and Traditional Building. (A third, Period Homes, was born in a separate workplace.)Now that he has located a replica for a missing latch button on a third-floor library pocket shutter, his work here is pretty much done. He and Ms. Lawrence, the principal librarian emeritus of the Brooklyn Museum, would like to move to a smaller home in Park Slope, and have listed the house with Annie Rose and Ron Emenheiser of Brown Harris Stevens.But first, the tour.The parlor was inspired by the painter James McNeill Whistler’s dizzying Peacock Room interior of 1876-77. Here, peacocks are painted on the walls and ceiling, molded in ornaments, woven into the carpet and, in one notable instance, stuffed. A “Turkish corner” is garnished with souvenirs from the owners’ trips to Cairo and other points east. The opposite corner has a nesting-table shrine to Victoria and Albert.In the dining room, the theme is sunflowers. Golden blossoms wrap around the dado and top of the wall and cover the ceiling. The late 19th-century gilded bronze light fixture with cherry-size crystal beads was a rarity Mr. Labine bought at an estate sale at the historic Octagon House in Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y. Ernest Porcelli, a Brooklyn artist, created the stained-glass sunflower panel of the room’s pocket door.At the top of the main staircase, with patterned risers and leather-covered treads, a bedroom was turned into the Athenaeum, or classical library. It is papered with a composite of six different sets of Bradbury & Bradbury period reproduction wallpapers and has a Murano chandelier assembled from 250 pieces.In the third-floor guest bedroom known as the India Room, layers of paint were stripped from the marble fireplace and a Christopher Dresser frieze added as a wall topper.The nearby bathroom has a tin ceiling. The tub feet have balls as well as claws.The fourth floor is where Mr. Labine took a leave from Victoriana to honor his wife’s interest in art of the Southwest. A small bedroom has sand-colored rusticated plaster walls, Mexican tiles and French doors leading to a roof deck. A bathroom has scalloped woodwork and a wall embedded with bird-and-flower-themed tiles the couple collected in their travels.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The fourth-floor front bedroom reverts to form, with its original ceiling medallion from which a Tiffany lamp dazzles. The marble fireplace mantel survived what Mr. Labine likes to describe as a 1910 “remuddling” of the property, as did the marble lavatory that occupies a niche. Ms. Lawrence’s office on this floor, called the Brooklyn Room, is sanctified by a reproduction of a drawing of John Roebling’s design for the Brooklyn Bridge.Three flights down, on the garden level, a media room is wrapped in walnut bookcases that Mr. Labine installed to match the wainscot. Another ceiling medallion, another Tiffany lamp, another marble fireplace (this one curiously “marbleized” with paint). It never gets old. The powder room takes you to Tuscany with a wall and ceiling mural by Sandra Spannan, a Brooklyn artist.The tour ends in the garden, where goldfish glide in a pond and a stone gargoyle looks thoughtful among the winter greenery. Honeysuckle will erupt here in spring. “This is a Belvedere Apollo and a bronze Hadrian,” Mr. Labine said, gesturing to statuary wrapped in waterproof coverings in a sculpture court next to the garden’s planted section. He has nurtured a fondness for classicism over the decades, but the house is fine with it.AdvertisementThat, too, is a Victorian thing.For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 2018, on Page RE8 of the New York edition with the headline: A Victorian Wonderland Opens Up in Park Slope.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Susan E. RiceThe nearly 17-year-old Afghanistan conflict, the longest war in United States history, will not end on the battlefield. It can be resolved only at the negotiating table. So, the bold offer last month from President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan to negotiate with the Taliban “without preconditions” is a welcome initiative. But it faces daunting obstacles.Mr. Ghani’s proposal envisions an outcome in which the Taliban would be recognized as a legitimate political party, prisoners would be released and United Nations sanctions against the group would be lifted. In exchange, the Taliban would have to recognize the Afghan government and respect the rule of law, including women’s rights.Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis, during a surprise visit to Afghanistan this week, said there was evidence that some Taliban factions are interested in talks. The Taliban have not responded formally to Mr. Ghani’s proposal, but in the past they have refused to negotiate directly with the Afghan government, which they deem an American puppet. Instead, the Taliban have insisted on direct talks with the United States that exclude the Kabul government, as a way to discredit it. The United States has long supported an Afghan-led peace process, in which Washington might play a role but would not stand in for the Afghan government.Assuming the Taliban refuse Mr. Ghani’s offer, it’s timely to ask: Is there an alternative to an indefinite United States military presence in Afghanistan?The fact is the Taliban remain strong, controlling or contesting over a third of the country. Their share continues to grow slowly, despite persistent Afghan and American efforts to weaken them. The early Obama-era surge to 100,000 United States troops, plus the infusion of an additional 40,000 troops from NATO nations, did not defeat or even permanently debilitate the Taliban.Late in his administration, President Barack Obama drew down American troops to below 10,000 and focused the mission squarely on counterterrorism, fighting Al Qaeda and the Islamic State, while providing only training, advice and assistance to Afghan forces fighting the Taliban. He ultimately ordered a deadly 2016 strike against the Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour, in the hope that his removal would substantially weaken the Taliban. It did not.Last year, President Trump intensified American airstrikes, increased the United States ground presence by roughly 50 percent and gave his commanders nearly unfettered authority to fight the Taliban. But that has not materially weakened the Taliban, either. Indeed, history has shown that no sustainable number of NATO troops will change the military balance sufficiently to assure an Afghan government victory. The Afghan war remains an “eroding stalemate” in which the Taliban gradually gain ground at the expense of the Kabul government.Despite Mr. Ghani’s laudable efforts, peace talks remain unlikely to succeed. Successive attempts at negotiations with the Taliban have failed for an array of reasons: the Taliban’s enduring strength on the battlefield and support among some of the rural population; policy disputes within the Taliban that have hamstrung their negotiators; a weak Afghan government split over the wisdom of negotiations; and Pakistan’s duplicitous role in nominally supporting negotiations while sustaining support for the Taliban.None of these factors has changed. With no realistic prospect for fruitful negotiations, we are waiting for the Taliban to self-destruct or to decide for their own reasons that they are ready to reconcile. In the meantime, the United States has three bad options.First, the Trump administration could refocus its objectives, returning to the previous administration’s more limited goal of fighting foreign terrorists and providing training, equipment and advice, but not direct combat support, to help the Afghan government control Kabul and other cities. This would enable a reduction in United States forces, while protecting the American diplomatic presence in Kabul and preventing Afghanistan from re-emerging as a major terrorist safe haven. This approach would probably slow, but not halt, the progress of the Taliban.Second, the United States could withdraw its forces, on the premise that it cannot “win” in Afghanistan. This would leave Afghanistan and the United States vulnerable to a reinvigorated terrorist presence and, perhaps, the replacement of the American-led presence by Russia, Iran, China or India.In this scenario, the Kabul government would most likely lose more territory to the Taliban and eventually fall. Arguably, the deaths of more than 2,400 American servicemen and women would have been in vain. This choice conjures haunting images of the United States retreat from Saigon in 1975, and no American president has yet been willing to accept this scenario.Finally, the United States could acknowledge and resolve that its presence in Afghanistan is essentially permanent — but in doing so, it should understand the cost. The United States will stay at whatever troop level our commanders deem necessary to combat terrorists and prop up the Kabul government. Mr. Trump has, in effect, chosen this option at an annual cost of at least $45 billion and about 15,000 American troops. But this approach will not result in the military defeat of the Taliban.Not surprisingly, Mr. Trump has neglected to explain to the American people that he has signed us up for an indefinite, Korea-style stay in Afghanistan, primarily for the purpose of maintaining stability and — despite his protestations — to conduct military-led nation-building. It remains to be seen if the public and Congress will embrace such a commitment. The Trump administration owes the American people a realistic assessment of the risks and costs of the president’s decisions. He needs to acknowledge that our longest war will go on much longer.Susan E. Rice(@AmbassadorRice), the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017 and a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, is a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Rohan SamarajivaAfter a weeklong blackout, the Sri Lankan government lifted its nationwide ban on social media on Thursday. Facebook and several other platforms had been shut down after days of violence targeting Muslims in the Kandy district, a popular destination for tourists and pilgrims. The violence began after a Sinhalese Buddhist truck driver was killed in a road-rage incident. Buddhist chauvinist groups flocked to the area, and their visits were followed by looting, arson, and attacks on mosques and on businesses operated by Muslims.Anti-Muslim propaganda is pervasive in all types of media in Sinhala, the language of Sri Lanka’s majority Buddhist population. But some pieces of disinformation — like false accounts of Buddhist monks being attacked — spread on social media and were perceived as especially dangerous. So the Sri Lankan government imposed the ban on Facebook, WhatsApp and several other services as a temporary security measure.It remained in effect until Facebook officials traveled to Sri Lanka to make a personal plea to lift it. The Sri Lankan president, Maithripala Sirisena, agreed to end the ban, saying Facebook pledged to work with the government “to prevent hate speech and misuse of the platform.” Critics immediately pointed out that the company has not offered any specific measures to “fix Facebook”.The government is claiming a victory, but blanket social media bans are not a solution to the problem of hate speech. They set a bad precedent for freedom of expression and undermine efforts to spread messages of reconciliation.In Sri Lanka, the time to act was months, if not years, earlier, engaging with all types of media. Facebook and internet penetration in the country is still around 30 percent. It’s just as likely that this violence was organized not only through Facebook and WhatsApp but also through phone calls and words exchanged across a neighbor’s fence. Facebook and WhatsApp are growing fast in Sri Lanka, but they are only a small part of an extremely polarized media world dominated by television and radio. Anti-minority hate speech, particularly against the Tamil minority, has been part of the Sri Lankan political landscape for decades. Now, it’s Muslims, not just Tamils, who have become the target.We have been conducting surveys and qualitative research on how people use mobile phones and the internet around the region for more than a decade. We recently focused on Myanmar to understand better how hate speech spreads. Social media use has grown at a stunning rate in Myanmar since 2014, at the same time that anti-Muslim violence linked to Buddhist chauvinist groups has escalated.We noticed that people usually first encountered false stories in “affinity circles” — messages sent through Facebook or WhatsApp groups. Within those circles, the messages appear as a communication from a trusted friend or relative. Because many people belong to multiple affinity circles, the hate-speech messages would jump from one circle to another, in each case appearing as from a trusted person.In other words, the human factor, not the platform alone, is important. This pattern is consistent with recent research about how falsehoods spread. A study by Sinan Aral at MIT analyzing about 126,000 Twitter “cascades” showed that false stories spread faster and further than true ones, perhaps because of their novelty, and that human beings — people passing along messages to their friends — were more important than bots.When mob-related violence does occur, the government relies on tactics developed during the colonial era: preventing the formation of mobs, usually through curfews, which stop people from gathering in public spaces. The same principle gives Sri Lanka’s telecommunications minister the power to prohibit the transmission or reception of entire categories of messages in emergencies or “in the interest of public safety and tranquillity.”The Facebook ban — a digital curfew — was an extension of that thinking. Sri Lanka does not have legal authority over Facebook, but it does regulate telecom companies, so it ordered them to block access to Facebook and other platforms. Harin Fernando, the telecommunications minister, told The Guardian, “Hate speech is not being controlled by these organizations, and it has become a critical issue globally.” In India and Pakistan, too, social media firms have come under scrutiny or faced outright bans for circulating hate speech.There is no doubt that social media companies need to do more. While Facebook has hired Sinhala-speaking moderators to detect and remove hate speech, its ability to respond to complaints quickly and consistently is limited. Facebook also should not rely on users to report abuse. It should proactively identify and remove hate speech before it spreads widely enough to generate complaints.But focusing too narrowly on one company or platform is a mistake. A foundation of mutual distrust and fear — not access to social media — is the necessary condition for the mobilization of violent mobs. Governments can’t dismantle that foundation alone. Media companies of all kinds must accept responsibility and deploy artificial intelligence and plain old elbow grease to the task. And people of good will must play their part by calling out falsehoods and reporting those responsible.Banning social media after the mobs have started running is mere political theater.Rohan Samarajiva is the chairman of LIRNEasia, an information and communications technology and infrastructure think tank, based in Sri Lanka.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Zraick and David Scull(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Thousands of American high school students walked out of class as part of a nationwide demonstration against gun violence.The protests, held across the country, came one month after the Parkland, Fla., school massacre and aimed to pressure Congress to pass gun control laws.“We have grown up watching more tragedies occur and continuously asking: Why?” said a student at Columbine High School, above, where a 1999 attack seemed to signal the start of the era of school shootings.____2.  Conor Lamb, the Democrat in a special House election in southwestern Pennsylvania, scored an extraordinary razor-thin upset in what had been a Trump stronghold.Mr. Lamb, a 33-year-old Marine Corps veteran from a local political dynasty, echoed traditional Democratic themes about union rights and economic issues in his campaign.But he also rejected the leadership of Representative Nancy Pelosi, welcomed support from people who voted for President Trump and took a more conservative position on the hot-button issue of guns.____3. President Trump is remaking his cabinet, moving it closer to the nationalist ideas that animated his campaign.Our reporter was with Rex Tillerson, above, as he toured Africa in his last days as secretary of state. On “The Daily,” we discuss what his exit means for negotiations over North Korea’s nuclear program.The latest updates: Mr. Trump named the CNBC commentator Larry Kudlow as his top economic adviser. And the administration may fire the former F.B.I. deputy director, Andrew McCabe, just days before he’s scheduled to retire. That would jeopardize his pension.____4. Prime Minister Theresa May, above, suspended high-level contacts with Russia and expelled 23 Russian diplomats over the poisoning of a former Russian double agent on British soil.She vowed to crack down on Russian spies, corrupt elites and ill-gotten wealth in Britain.Our correspondent explains why Moscow will never apologize for the attack on its former spy, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter.____5. “Not since Albert Einstein has a scientist so captured the public imagination and endeared himself to tens of millions of people around the world.”Tributes have been pouring in for Stephen Hawking, the physicist and author whose mind soared past physical paralysis and changed our understanding of the universe. He died at 76. Our science reporter for physics and cosmology wrote his obituary. Above, a beach in India.Here’s a brief history of Dr. Hawking’s work. Movies were made about him, he made cameos on TV shows, and he inspired composers and songwriters. Here are six cultural moments he inspired and some of his most memorable quotations.____6. “This is going to be a catastrophe.”Rohingya refugees who fled from Myanmar face looming disaster when the impending storms of the monsoon season hit their vast camp in Bangladesh.A top U.N. official said this week that the Myanmar military’s campaign against the Rohingya bore “the hallmarks of genocide.” Senior government officials denied the accusation.____7. An immersive, multimedia theater production called “Universal Judgment: Michelangelo and the Secrets of the Sistine Chapel,” makes its debut in Rome on Thursday. Above, the character of Michelangelo floats as he paints.Its artistic director, Marco Balich, best known as a designer of over-the-top spectacles like Olympic ceremonies, worked with the Vatican on the show. Sting did the soundtrack.“Italy has all these very conservative art critics, and they are against the idea of ‘spettacolarizzazione,’” Mr. Balich said, using an Italian expression for putting on a big show. “They hate that word; I love that word.”____8. Are technicolor croissants blasphemy or natural evolution?That’s the question our food writer asks in T Magazine. She takes stock of the long history of the croissant; the development of its fetish-object cousin, the Cronut; and the broader significance of such “Frankenpastries.”“The croissant is dead; long live the croissant,” she concludes.____9. Après pastry, a little cardio.You may have heard that exercise is good for you. Two new studies of older recreational cyclists show just how good.They weren’t just healthier than their sedentary counterparts. They were also, biologically, younger.____10. Finally, here’s our popular roundup of the late-night comedy shows. And our TV folks also publish highlights of what’s on live TV and streaming services each weeknight.For Wednesday, that includes Smithsonian’s “The Mountain Lion and Me,” which follows a mama lion and three kittens as they face predators and a bitter winter in Yellowstone National Park. (Some of the footage comes from cameras installed in their cave.)Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement
What You Get By                     
JULIE LASKY

MARCH 14, 2018

CreditShowHomes        WHAT A Victorian brick home with six bedrooms and four and a half bathroomsHOW MUCH $1.995 millionSIZE 7,401 square feetPRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $270SETTING  The house is in a historic district in a suburb on the North Shore of Chicago, about a 20-minute walk from the main business district and six blocks west of Lake Michigan. Downtown Chicago is a half-hour drive.INDOORS Construction began in 1901 on what was once the home of Oscar Mayer, the son of the founder of the meat-processing company, who lived there from 1927 until his death in 1965. (Neighbors recalled him handing out wiener-mobile whistles to trick-or-treaters.) Sold in 2015 to a home renovation company, it has been thoroughly restored and updated, with new wiring and plumbing, a reconfigured master suite and the addition of a sunroom.A flight of stone steps takes you to the original cut-crystal front door. The centerpiece of the large foyer is an ornate wood staircase. A tiled fireplace with a seating area off to the side has a wood over-mantel with columns and gothic arches.AdvertisementTo the left of the entrance is a long living room with a decorative marble fireplace. To the right is a music room, whose acoustics are enhanced by curving walls. The living room connects to the fully paneled dining room with its own marble fireplace (it works). A door at the end of the room opens to a butler’s pantry with a sink and wine refrigerator. Beyond is the fully remodeled kitchen, which has custom cabinetry, a marble-topped island and a La Cornue range that is half gas and half electric. The new sunroom is used as a breakfast room. The main floor also has a family room with intricate plaster crown molding.AdvertisementThe newly created master suite on the second floor contains a dressing room and a bathroom with a marble vanity top and trim and an original stained glass window. Three additional bedrooms and a library are on the second floor, and two bedrooms and a den are on the third floor. The third floor also has large spaces that were the original ballroom and billiard room.OUTDOOR SPACE Both the kitchen and breakfast room open to a new wraparound rear deck. The addition’s roof doubles as a balcony that is reached from the master suite. The .27-acre property includes a detached two-car garage.TAXES $31,762 (2015)CONTACT Susan Ani, Baird & Warner, 847-905-5213; 1030forestavenue.bairdwarner.com•WHAT A two-bedroom, two-bathroom condominiumHOW MUCH $1.995 millionSIZE 2,117 square feetPRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $942SETTING  The home is in the historic South of Broad neighborhood, near the Charleston Harbor and a variety of shops and restaurants.INDOORS The 1923 neoclassical revival building was converted to condominiums in 1999. The current owner of this unit updated the kitchen and bathrooms, and covered assorted walls in Venetian plaster.Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The owner also replaced the floors: The foyer, with its Gracie paper gilded barrel ceiling, has a marble checkerboard floor. The living room’s floors are vintage French oak in a herringbone pattern. The eat-in kitchen, which has SieMatic cabinetry and a marble-topped island, has matching vintage French oak planks.AdvertisementThe master bedroom opens directly to a private garden — the only one in the building. The guest bedroom walls have built-in cabinets and are covered in cotton India hand-blocked fabric. There is also a television room.OUTDOOR SPACE In addition to the private garden, the home has access to a shared courtyard. It comes with a dedicated parking space.TAXES $13,042 (2017)CONTACT Lyles Geer, William Means Real Estate, 843-793-9800; charlestonrealestate.com •WHAT A contemporary-style home with three bedrooms and two and a half bathroomsHOW MUCH $1.999 millionSIZE 2,064 square feetPRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $969SETTING Known as Owl’s Nest, the hilltop home with ocean views is 30 miles west of downtown Los Angeles and 10 miles northeast of Malibu Beach.INDOORS W. Earl Wear, who designed several homes in the area, created Owl’s Nest in 1963 as his own residence. Subscribing to Frank Lloyd Wright’s organic principles, he used redwood, stone and glass for their harmony with the landscape.The open-plan main floor is paved with smooth stone slabs and centers on a two-story-high stone fireplace that rises through intersecting redwood beams. A built-in sofa with integrated cabinets anchors the living area. The kitchen is on the other side of the fireplace and has a large island with a separate oven and stovetop. The dining area also has a built-in sofa, as well as double glass doors that lead to a large paved outdoor seating area.The larger main-level bedroom has three exposures and direct access to the backyard; the smaller bedroom has built-in bookshelves. The main-floor bathroom has a walk-in shower with period tiles and a wall of open storage.AdvertisementA loft area suspended over the main floor contains another bedroom with an en-suite bathroom and windows that let occupants see the stars at night.OUTDOOR SPACE Entry to the .88-acre property is through a wood-and-corrugated-metal gate. Pine, oak, redwood and eucalyptus trees surround the house. There is a separate artist’s studio as well as a hot tub and a ring of tree stumps that can be used as a drum circle. Eight cars can comfortably park in the gravel driveway. The home also has a detached two-car garage.TAXES $22,918CONTACT Tenny Kilmore, Hilton & Hyland, 310-849-8252; 2440minard.comAn earlier version of this article misidentified the location of a house in California. The house is in Topanga, Calif., which is an area in the County of Los Angeles, not a neighborhood in the City of Los Angeles.For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOn CampusBy Anne Rudig“Will I be the oldest person here?” I asked the chairman of the nonfiction writing program at Columbia University, shortly after I was accepted. He laughed and said no. There were two or three older, but not by much.“It takes a lifetime to make a writer,” he continued.And I’ve had the lifetime.I was 64 when I entered graduate school. I had just left the work force — not retired, just tired. Tired of hitting the glass ceiling and of policies that failed to protect employees from abuse. As disenchantment with my job grew, writing became a healthy distraction.I applied to Columbia with no expectation of acceptance and no idea how to pay for it. My husband and I had just finished paying for our kids’ education and we didn’t have enough for retirement. But then one snowy February evening, the head of the writing program called as I stirred a pot of soup, and said, “You’re in, and there will be a scholarship.” I dropped my wooden spoon.Sure, I’d written copy at ad agencies for 20 years, started a memoir and taken some online classes. But did that make me a writer? And the Ivy League part scared me. I imagined I wasn’t smart enough. But I also realized I had some things to say.I sat in workshops and seminars during my first semester at Columbia, ashamed of my age and surrounded by brilliant young people. They were polite, but I assumed my work held little interest for them. I don’t swipe for sex. I haven’t pulled an all-nighter in decades. I thought they’d laugh at my flapping upper arms and my wrinkly neck, even though many of them admire Nora Ephron.Some of my instructors were close in age to me, winners of Pulitzers with decades of writing and publishing experience. Some were just a little older than my children. I wondered, was it too late for me to do this?My peers wrote about online dating, strange roommates, odd living situations, first big loves and rejections. Others wrote memoirs about life with a meth-addicted father or what it means to be biracial. We all struggled to be emotionally honest on the page. For me, that meant finding restraint and perspective by stepping back, seeing my own complicity in much of what’s happened in my life.My classmates transported me back to my own 20s and 30s. I attended the University of California, Berkeley, during the second wave of feminism. In the 1970s, solidarity with the antiwar movement meant cooking for the male demonstrators. Now things are different. Gender identification is not assumed. Respect for difference is. I’ve been asked not only for my name but also for my preferred pronouns.Inevitably, I blundered. One icy January morning I dug out the warmest coat I owned. On my way into class, shivering vegans jeered at me. What was I thinking? My kids are vegan. The coat, trimmed in rabbit fur at the neckline, now hangs at the back of my closet where my cat occasionally tries to kill it or have sex with it.After several workshops in which everyone felt overexposed, I realized no one cared how old I was. Workshops are like the painting critiques I endured as an undergraduate in the art department at Berkeley. But they’re different now — criticism no longer terrifies me. My defensiveness has been worn away. I’m better able to hear the helpful parts and understand what I would have taken personally years ago. I’m finally a good student. And I don’t have to worry that what I write will make things awkward with my parents at Christmas.I have fewer distractions than my younger classmates. Dating and the insecurity that went with it are memories. Figuring out my sexuality and experimenting with illegal substances no longer consume my weekends.One professor said, “You have to write badly before you can write well.” Along with my fear of being too old, my first semester held plenty of writing badly. But I kept going, figuring they’d admitted me and provided a scholarship for a reason.Now I’m in my final semester. I’m amazed by my talented peers and by their easygoing acceptance and candor. Despite the age difference, we’ve fed one another in many ways — emotionally, intellectually and literally (I’ve brought tomatoes from my garden, while another student brought freshly baked bread). Although my professors have been stellar, much of my education has come from reading and listening to my fellow students — on a grandmother in India; an Armenian family’s path, post-genocide; sorority life in 2017; and what it means to be transgender within an authoritarian regime.I’ve been warned by my professors that a degree in writing is unlikely to bring riches. That’s okay. I’ve been enriched beyond measure. And like my peers, I’ve got some stories to tell. A lifetime of them.Anne Rudig (@annerudig) is a writer and M.F.A. student at Columbia University.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Des ShoeSometimes it seems as if we’re living under a constant barrage of heavy news. But it isn’t all bad out there. This feature is meant to send you into the weekend with a smile, or at least a lighter heart.Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:Satellite images and a drone helped a team of researchers discover about 1.5 million Adélie penguins (an adorable, knee-high, ice-dwelling variety) living in the Danger Islands. The discovery confirms that the islands are a penguin hot spot, and their large numbers will help prioritize the area for conservation efforts.“It’s always good news when you find new penguins,” said P. Dee Boersma, director of the Center for Ecosystem Sentinels at the University of Washington. Read more »The New York Times has published thousands of obituaries since 1851, but the vast majority chronicled the lives of men, and mostly white ones. The deaths of extraordinary people like the author Charlotte Brontë and the investigative reporter Ida B. Wells never made it into The Times’s pages.Our new “Overlooked” project seeks to remedy that. We’re introducing the series by chronicling the lives and accomplishments of 15 women, but the series will expand its reach. (That’s where you, dear readers, can help us out.)In the meantime, read about how the poet Qiu Jin became China’s “Joan of Arc,” how Emily Warren Roebling oversaw the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge, how Ada Lovelace became the world’s first computer programmer, and more. They earned it. Read more »Just a little bit of soil in your yard has the power to absorb and store a significant amount of carbon from the air, according to research published in the journal Ecological Applications. Backyard soil can lock in more planet-warming emissions than soils found in native grasslands or urban forests.So that patch of green that we think of as a source of personal enjoyment can help the community at large.Of course, bigger green spaces in cities are important, too. They can reduce temperatures in places where paved surfaces magnify heat, and can capture storm water to reduce flooding. “But what we realized is that people’s backyards are a really big player,” one researcher said. Read more »It was an image that was widely shared on social media — a little girl staring, transfixed, at the official portrait of the former first lady at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington.The girl, Parker Curry, is only 2, but the photograph touched hearts, with many commenters noting the importance of representation and the hope the girl’s expression captured.Mrs. Obama met Parker this week, and the pair shared a dance that was captured in a video. “Maybe one day I’ll proudly look up at a portrait of you!” the former first lady told Parker on Twitter and Instagram. Read more »Balkrishna Doshi, 90, has won architecture’s highest honor: the Pritzker Prize. His work focuses on social good and sustainability, and includes projects like the Aranya low-cost housing complex in Indore, where more than 80,000 low- and middle-income residents live in homes ranging from modest one-room units to spacious houses with shared courtyards for families.“What is the role of an architect today?” he said in an interview. “Are we going to be a service provider working for a client, or are we going to be useful to the society at large?” Read more »Team Indigenous includes 20 athletes from indigenous communities in North America, South America, New Zealand and elsewhere, and it’s one of few roller derby teams that aren’t predominantly white.The team members got to know each other over Skype, sharing coaching tips and advice about what to expect at the 2018 tournament in Manchester, England.“We skate to bring more indigenous women to this sport, to provide a space of solidarity, strength and love,” said Melissa Waggoner, a professional who has skated on Team U.S.A. and is part of the Diné indigenous community in North America.Team Indigenous finished 27th out of 38 teams at the World Cup. Team Australia, which was a finalist, gave up its national anthem slot so the indigenous athletes could make a statement. Read more »Tonya Illman was taking a stroll in Western Australia when she found a discolored bottle poking out of the sand. It may be the oldest known message in a bottle ever recovered.The scroll of paper inside was damp, but it included details of where and when the bottle was set adrift. The Western Australian Museum confirmed that the bottle, and its message, dated from the 19th century, and that it had been dropped off a German vessel called the Paula as part of an experiment to understand ocean currents.When the bottle was set adrift, Grover Cleveland was the president of the United States and the Industrial Revolution was in full swing. The bottle and its message will go on display at the Western Australian Maritime Museum in Fremantle for two years. Read more »What would you like to see here? Email us at goodnews@nytimes.com. And you can enjoy more of this feature at nytimes.com/goodnews.Follow Des Shoe on Twitter: @DesNYT.AdvertisementBy NINA SIEGALMARCH 10, 2018
AMSTERDAM — This museum is floating in outer space.In front of you, there is a line of stunning European old master paintings to observe and explore. Behind you is a sleek walkway over the infinite void of sky and stars. If you were to take a running leap, you’d fly out into nothingness and never stop.Except that you’d probably hit the wall of a conference room first.Then you take off your helmet and emerge from the Kremer Museum, a virtual-reality art gallery of 17th-century Dutch and Flemish paintings, which has been set in an imagined celestial sphere. Back in reality, you’re in the meeting room of a corporate lounge in an Amsterdam hotel.In recent years, many museums have made their artworks digitally accessible by uploading high-resolution images to the internet as “virtual museums.” Meanwhile, contemporary “virtual-reality artists” have been using high-tech stereoscopic tools such as Google Tilt Brush, HTC Vive and Oculus Rift to paint or sculpt in three dimensions.The Dutch art collectors George and Ilone Kremer decided to combine these two developments: They’ve reproduced 74 artworks from their own stellar art collection, to create a traditional museum experience using video-game technologies and a 21st-century twist.This month and next, the Kremer Museum is rolling out its first mobile app, which will allow people worldwide to visit a virtual museum using any Google Daydream-ready phone and virtual reality headset, simply by placing the smartphone sideways into the headset and turning it on. The app is free, and through a program they’ve also created called Mighty Masters, the Kremers plan to donate smartphones and virtual reality helmets to selected schools, beginning in India with the help of the Delivering Change Foundation.Advertisement“We’ve been trying to spread knowledge about our collection as wide as possible over many years, and this is a much faster way of reaching many more people,” Mr. Kremer said in an interview. “With a mobile app that works, you have the world as your marketplace.”AdvertisementAlthough the couple has been sharing their art collection for decades through exhibitions, museum loans and other means, this is the first time they don’t have to worry about travel wear and tear.“That’s the beauty of this type of museum,” Mr. Kremer said. “You never have to think about security, insurance or transport fees or any of that. No plumbing or building codes.”The Kremers, who live in Dubai and have homes in Dallas and Amsterdam, have been collecting art since 1994, when Mr. Kremer bought a drawing by Govert Flinck, one of Rembrandt’s most successful pupils, from the Amsterdam gallery Salomon Lilian.His wife did not like his initial purchase, but together they began to collect under the guidance of one of the Netherlands’ leading old master dealers, Robert Noortman, and accumulated one of the world’s most respected troves of Dutch and Flemish masters in private hands. Their collection now includes paintings by Rembrandt, Frans Hals and Jan Lievens, along with Impressionist works.The idea for a virtual-reality museum came from their son Joël, who had worked in the United States for Google. Joël eventually became the director of the museum and spearheaded the project.Each painting in the collection was photographed about 3,000 times and then merged into a 3-D image using photogrammetry, or measurements of surface points. Visitors to the museum can therefore look not only at the front of a picture, but also walk around and see labels and other markings on the back.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Glitches still need to be worked out. The image resolution still appears to be inadequate to create a sufficiently high-resolution reproduction. And the subject matter doesn’t help: 17th-century Dutch painting, especially the domestic genre scenes favored by the Kremers, was very detail-oriented; beauty can be found in the flicker of light on a woman’s silk gown, or light glancing off a pearl, or the exquisitely meticulous fringe on a tablecloth.Joël Kremer acknowledged that the pixelation isn’t adequate right now, but said the issue was being worked on and that it seemed likely that this would be fixed as the technology inevitably improved.The Kremers have made what they will only describe as “a significant investment” of money to develop the museum. George Kremer is quick to note, however, that, “Building this is a fraction of what a physical building would cost.” To achieve the same ethereal setting, he added, “You’d then have to shoot it into space, and that would be a costly affair.”A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 2018, on Page F36 of the New York edition with the headline: Sharing a Private Collection With the World.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 8:58 A.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russia long saw Donald Trump as the wild card in its strategy to improve relations with the United States.But 14 months after he became U.S. president, Moscow is close to viewing him as a busted flush, unable to enact his pledge for better ties.Trump reluctantly signed off on new sanctions against Moscow last summer over allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Last week he backed the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats and the closure of Russia's Seattle consulate over the poisoning of an ex-Russian agent in Britain.After betting the farm on Trump, Russia has seen relations with the West sink so low that there is talk of a new Cold War. President Vladimir Putin's options for a change of strategy, banking less on Trump and his ability to sway those around him on Russia, is severely limited as he prepares for a new term.AdvertisementOne option being explored is to try to widen splits in the West by courting France and Germany. Another is to draw closer to China and India. But the relationship with Washington is still seen in Moscow as central to Russian foreign policy.Advertisement"Washington has become fixated with the fight against a non-existent, so-called Russian threat," Sergei Naryshkin, Russia's foreign intelligence agency chief, said on Wednesday."This has reached such proportions and acquired such absurd characteristics that it's possible to speak of a return to the dark times of the Cold War."Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said earlier this week that the standoff was worse than during the Cold War between East and West after World War Two."...Then some kind of rules and appearances were kept up. Now, as I see it, our Western partners ... have cast aside all proprieties," Lavrov said.The Cold War saw the Soviet Union square off against the United States, with the threat of nuclear war hanging over the world until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.But the standoff was kept under control by arms treaties, superpower summits and both proscribed and informal rules of engagement.The new standoff, raw and unpredictable, has been likened to a "fight without rules" by Konstantin Kosachev, head of the upper house of Russian parliament's foreign affairs committee.AdvertisementThe risk of miscommunication, miscalculation and sudden escalation into a hot war is higher than during the original Cold War, he says.ARCH HAWKSTrump's appointment of Mike Pompeo and John Bolton, whom Moscow regards as arch Russia hawks, to key foreign policy posts last month has further soured the mood in Moscow, say analysts and people close to Russian decision makers.When it comes to the United States, these sources say Moscow is not willing to change course, make concessions or launch new initiatives.Russia will therefore continue to engage only if and when the United States is ready to do so, and, if faced with more hostile action - such as further diplomatic expulsions - will respond in kind, the people close to decision makers say."All we can do is keep the doors open for negotiation and  wait and see what will happen. That's the predominant view," said Andrey Kortunov, head of a think-tank close to the Russian Foreign Ministry.In particular, Moscow is keeping the door open to a possible summit between Trump and Putin, an idea floated by Trump, and is also keen for U.S.-Russia talks on strategic nuclear stability to avoid a costly arms race.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But its baseline scenario is a downward spiral in ties."Washington is the standard bearer of a new Cold War,"  Fyodor Lukyanov, a foreign policy expert close to the Kremlin, wrote in government daily Rossiyskaya Gazeta after last week's  U.S. diplomatic expulsions."There's no point in hoping for an improvement in ties or any progress in any area for the foreseeable future," said Lukyanov, who has warned the Russian elite to brace for sweeping Iran-style financial sanctions.EASTWARDS, FRANCO-GERMAN PIVOTWhile better ties with the United States are seen as a remote possibility, improved relations with France and Germany are seen as "more interesting opportunities for political investment," said Kortunov.AdvertisementKremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov praised France's "constructive position" after Paris confirmed French President Emmanuel Macron would still visit Russia in May despite tensions. Alexei Pushkov, a senator specializing in foreign policy, has lauded German Chancellor Angela Merkel's decision to back Russia's proposed Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.The planned pipeline will connect Germany and Russia, despite concerns from other EU nations who fear it will harm the bloc's energy security.Lukyanov said Moscow should look to beef up ties with Beijing and Delhi as they had "freedom to maneuver" on the world stage and were not vulnerable to Western pressure on Russia.Moscow believes the only wild card it has with Washington is Trump who, in Russian eyes, appears to have been playing a game of good cop bad cop, offering Russia a glimmer of hope, while Congress and his administration read Russia the riot act.Russia casts Trump as a hostage of the U.S. political establishment who it accuses of reducing his room for maneuver by boxing him in with the special investigation into his associates' possible collusion with Moscow and what Russia says are false allegations it meddled in U.S. politics.Its disappointment with Trump has unfolded in stages.Trump’s decision to launch a missile strike against a Syrian air base, drop a large bomb in Afghanistan in an attack on Islamic militants and stick with Obama-era policies over Russia's annexation of the Crimea region from Ukraine, and, until recently, his tough talk on North Korea, went down badly in Moscow.And initial euphoria over his victory gave way to dismay last summer when the man they hoped would end U.S. sanctions reluctantly reinforced the penalties.His decision to back the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats over the Skripal affair was a new inflection point.Advertisement"Increasingly, diplomacy is becoming irrelevant in Russian-U.S. relations," Dmitri Trenin, a former colonel in the Russian army and director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, said of the move."It seems to be the time to hit/retaliate/prepare for a fight."Trump's approval of the expulsions was seen as a bad omen for his relationship with Putin by an online Russian newspaper viewed as close to the Russian presidential administration."If 14 months after taking office Trump has not won himself freedom of maneuver, it's very hard to count on him getting it in what's left of his presidential time," wrote Vzglyad.Trump's congratulatory phone call to Putin after the Russian leader's re-election, his talk of a U.S.-Russia summit in the same call, and his statement on Tuesday saying it would be "a great thing" if he had a "very good relationship" with Putin have provided small shards of hope to Moscow."In theory, one can imagine that if President Trump somehow clears himself of the allegations of collusion with Russia .. he might get out of the cage and exercise a little bit more autonomy in rebuilding this relationship," said Kortunov, the think-tank head close to the Foreign Ministry."But these hopes are very slim."(Editing by Timothy Heritage)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAN LEVINAPRIL 3, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A flip-flop in Israel, insults from Turkey and the world’s first ban on “fake news.” Here’s the latest:• “Guess it’s just one of those days.”So began a tweet from the European Union’s delegation in Israel, where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced on Monday that he had reached a surprise deal with the United Nations refugee agency to resettle thousands of African migrants in Western countries.But Mr. Netanyahu suspended the deal hours later, after facing a barrage of outrage from his conservative coalition partners angry that half the migrants would be allowed to stay in Israel. His opponents on the left described the reversal as cowardly.The deal, which had brought Israel some short-lived international good will after a deadly clash with Palestinians last week, was intended to avoid a contentious Israeli plan that had offered the migrants a stark choice: forced deportation to Africa or prison.AdvertisementAbove, protesting the plan last month in Tel Aviv._____• His favorite script: insulting people his supporters love to hate, like the liberal elite.AdvertisementNo, we’re not talking about President Trump’s tweets.Befitting the current era of strongmen, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey also has a well-honed strategy for winning public support. He gives up to three speeches every weekday — two a day on weekends — broadcast live on multiple channels.Another of his preferred targets? European leaders._____• What do a pair of Belarusian sex instructors detained in Thailand have to do with the investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential race?Alexander Kirillov and Anastasia Vashukevich, above, say they have evidence showing Russia interfered, and they claim to be the targets of a covert Russian plot to silence them because they know too much.That might seem far-fetched, but the seduction coaches have powerful Russian enemies. And the F.B.I. says it tried to talk to them, suggesting that American investigators had not entirely dismissed their story._____• Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the country’s north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The group’s fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____• “Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent.”That’s how our obituary describes Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader in South Africa’s fight against apartheid, known to most of the world through her marriage to Nelson Mandela.AdvertisementShe died early Monday at the age of 81.“In time,” our former international correspondent wrote, “her reputation became scarred by accusations of extreme brutality toward suspected turncoats, misbehavior and indiscretion in her private life, and a radicalism that seemed at odds with Mr. Mandela’s quest for racial inclusiveness.”_____• The world’s first ban on “fake news.”The lower house of Malaysia’s Parliament passed a bill that allows for up to six years in prison for publishing or circulating misleading information, and its upper house is expected to rapidly follow suit. Above, an advertisement discouraging the spread of fake news, at a train station in Kuala Lumpur last month.Critics say the law is intended to stifle dissent before elections.In the U.S., dozens of local TV anchors gave the same speech denouncing fake news recently. It turned out they were doing a “forced read” of a corporate script from the country’s largest broadcaster, Sinclair. Critics have accused the company of using its stations to bolster public support for President Trump.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• The U.S. stock market tumbled, spurred by a flurry of bad news about technology companies and continued worries about a trade war with China. Above, a New York Stock Exchange trader on Monday.• Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming giant, begins trading today with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. Instead of an initial public offering, it’s using the rare and potentially risky process known as a direct listing: No new stock is issued, and insiders can begin selling their stash on Day 1.• The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness (which we explained in last Friday’s Back Story), we devised a tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. (Australia got the trophy.)•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• President Trump is renewing a push to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States. Above, a Honduran mother and children next to the U.S.-Mexico border fence in February. [The New York Times]• More than one in five British manufacturers are expected to lay off workers because of Brexit, according to a study released on Sunday. [Politico]Advertisement• In India, seven people have died during huge protests against a Supreme Court order that many fear will weaken protections for lower-caste communities, which have long faced violence and discrimination. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Exercising while young may, possibly, create more heart-muscle cells.• Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up.• Recipe of the day: Don’t stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus.• The mystery of the mummy. A museum wasn’t sure whose head it had put on display. That’s when the F.B.I.’s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agency’s oldest case. Above, a team of doctors extracting a tooth from the mummy head in 2009.• In the wake of mass shootings in the U.S., a lifelong gun owner questions the weapons he has long believed are essential to protecting himself and his country.• The French-Polish photographer Tim Franco used portraits to tell the stories of North Korean defectors, opening a window into the identities of people whose lives are brutally cut into two parts: before and after.• A year in a master’s life: “In 1932 the world was tilting toward catastrophe. Picasso was becoming a god,” says our reporter, who reviews the Tate’s new exhibition in London, “Picasso 1932,” which is filled with “point-blank masterpieces.”• The redemption of a violin prodigy. Saul Chandler played at Carnegie Hall in New York before he was 11, but the pressure to perform grew so unbearable that he gave up the violin at 16. This riveting story explores how he remade his life — and found peace — by building boats.Advertisement• And after nearing extinction 20 years ago, the Iberian lynx has made a comeback in southern Spain and Portugal, thanks to a vast E.U. recovery program and about 50,000 rabbits.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kong’s new relationship with the People’s Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flag’s two colors are said to represent the “one country, two systems” principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.AdvertisementCheck out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By KAREN ZRAICK and DAVID SCULLAPRIL 3, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. At least four people were wounded, one of them critically, in a shooting at YouTube’s headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., above. The shooter, who the police said was a woman, died from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound.One employee tweeted that he had “heard shots and saw people running while at my desk.” He said that he was barricaded inside a room with co-workers, but moments later tweeted that he had been safely evacuated. Footage from the scene showed people being led away from the building with their hands in the air in a single-file line.Check back for updates on this developing story.____2. “We’re going to be guarding our border with the military.”President Trump said he’d order troops to guard the southern border until he can build a wall and tighten immigration restrictions. He made the announcement alongside Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, at a meeting with visiting leaders of Baltic nations, above.AdvertisementIt wasn’t immediately clear how he’d carry that out, though. The active-duty military is generally barred by law from domestic law enforcement duties, though previous administrations have deployed the National Guard in support roles on the border.AdvertisementWe fact-checked the president’s recent claims about immigration, and our reporter in Mexico City has more on the immigrant caravans making headlines this week.____3. Alex van der Zwaan, above, became the first person sentenced in the investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election.The 33-year-old Dutch citizen used to be a lawyer for the powerful firm Skadden Arps. (He’s also the son-in-law of a Russian billionaire.)He had faced up to five years in prison for deceiving investigators who were examining links between key figures in the Trump campaign and a Ukrainian businessman. He was sentenced to 30 days in prison and fined $20,000.____4. It was Spotify day: The company that disrupted the music business made its highly anticipated debut on the New York Stock Exchange. The share price closed at $149.01, giving Spotify a market value similar to that of companies like M&T Bank and General Mills.There was one snafu, though: The exchange flew a Swiss flag in honor of the deal. Spotify’s headquarters are in Sweden.____5. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated 50 years ago Wednesday.We remember him and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.AdvertisementThe Times obituary celebrated him as a prophet in the crusade for racial equality and a voice for millions of African-Americans. “He was their voice of anguish,” it reads, “their eloquence in humiliation, their battle cry for human dignity.”____6. Alarming evidence and testimony at a federal civil rights trial in Mississippi is allowing a rare glimpse into the world of private prisons.The case was filed after years of complaints from inmates over dangerous conditions and extraordinary violence and neglect. We obtained surveillance footage, above, showing inmates beating a fellow inmate, with no response from guards for half an hour.The number of inmates in private facilities is increasing around the country, and the Trump administration has indicated that it will expand their use.____7. Hillary Clinton’s loss in the 2016 presidential election prompted a surge of Democratic women not only to run for office, but also to manage campaigns.With a seat at the head of the table, staff members like Emma Brown, above, are responsible for strategy, message, staff and creating networks for future campaigns.They have the potential to reshape a profession long dominated by men. This year, 40 percent of the campaign managers for Democratic congressional candidates are women, and the numbers are up for Republican candidates too.____8. Just one day after he announced it on live TV, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel reneged on a deal with the U.N. to resettle African asylum seekers in Western countries. Above, a protest outside of Mr. Netanyahu’s office in Jerusalem.AdvertisementThe deal would have allowed thousands of recent migrants from Eritrea and Sudan, who cannot be returned to their own countries under international law, to remain in Israel. An equal number were to be resettled in Western countries.Mr. Netanyahu’s about-face came after an outcry from anti-immigration hard-liners, and it dented his image as a master political player.____9. India’s jeweler to the stars is on the run.Nirav Modi, seen above last year, had attained wealth and fame in a few short years. Kate Winslet, Taraji P. Henson and other celebrities wore his designs, and he rubbed elbows with British royalty and Donald Trump Jr. He disappeared after being accused of building his global empire through fraudulent bank transactions.The case has captivated and enraged India, reinforcing the notion that taxpayer-owned banks are footing the bill for the lavish lifestyles of a rising elite.Separately, less than a day after announcing penalties for journalists who write or broadcast “fake news,” the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi (no relation) withdrew them.____10. Finally, our food writer says cooking the perfect beef stew is a lifelong goal.“It takes even longer after you realize that there isn’t one perfect beef stew, but constellations of them,” she adds. Her trick? Cook it low and slow, preferably in an oven. (Feel free to go straight to the recipe.)The late-night hosts caught wind of one Obama-era measure that President Trump has not repealed: declaring April National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month.“At this point, he’s just messing with us,” Jimmy Kimmel joked. “I mean, he might as well declare it National Bankrupt Casino Awareness Month.”AdvertisementHave a great night.____Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SARA LIEBERMANMARCH 2, 2018
PARIS — In a windowless room in the Second Arrondissement of Paris, about 40 riders were clipped in and warming up, pedaling round and round, waiting for her to enter. When she did, she was wearing all black so that when she climbed onto her bike and stood tall on the pedals, she looked like a blond panther ready to pounce.The class followed suit despite her not uttering a word. That’s because they all know Clotilde Chaumet, the 27-year-old spinning coach whose 45-minute classes book up as soon as they’re made available, a week in advance.Spinning isn’t totally new to Paris, but it just reached a pivotal moment: One of the city’s first studios, Dynamo, which opened in 2015 and was modeled on SoulCycle, was recently bought by its competitor, Let’s Ride, which opened a year later. Clo, as Ms. Chaumet is known, is one of Dynamo’s original master coaches, with devotees at every class and her own brand of yoga.“She’s mastered this technique of creating a journey,” said Stéphanie Nieman, one of the three founders of Let’s Ride. “She takes you in and plunges you into a new universe. Whenever the music changes, she knows where to take you and you don’t even realize it’s happening.”AdvertisementMs. Chaumet, who revises her hip-hop-heavy playlist for each of her 13 weekly spin classes, spends less time on the bike and more time moving around the candlelit room, yelling out cues with the rhythm of a rapper: “Gauche, gauche, gauche, gauche. Droite, droite, droite, droite,” she will say, instructing her students to go left or right.AdvertisementHer husky just-smoked-a-cigarette-voice (though, of course, she doesn’t) often gets muffled in the mic of her headset, but loyal riders follow along as if their lives depend on it.“She really pushes you,” said Jade Dabrigeon, 25, a fashion publicist who began taking Ms. Chaumet’s classes soon after the studio opened. “The whole point is to be able to stop thinking and just feel the energy of the room. It’s also really satisfying to look in the mirror and see the whole row perfectly synchronized like a ballet.”Ms. Chaumet was born in Paris and was raised on the west coast of France, where, as a child, she liked archery, horseback riding and surfing. Before her spinning career, the self-proclaimed tomboy (she pairs cotton sport socks with Gucci loafers outside the studio) flitted between jobs. There was waitressing at Joe Allen in Paris and folding shirts at Quiksilver, all while flying back and forth to California, where she was she was a surf instructor in Santa Barbara and a chef for the crew of “Unusually Thicke,” a reality show starring Alan Thicke and his family.“I was really living the life there,” Ms. Chaumet said on a recent Tuesday after class, sipping a second allongé at Fragments cafe in the Marais. “I didn’t have too much money, but I’d wake up, go swimming, then work in a cafe for a bit and maybe take a yoga class. At 5 or 6, I’d surf before happy hour.”The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But when she came back to Paris to renew her visa, her mother and grandmother urged her to make something more of herself. As if on cue, Dynamo discovered her growing presence on Instagram and asked her to train as one of their coaches.“It would stop me from going back to California and traveling,” she said. “I had to do it fully. I’m really competitive with myself.”Before she started training at Dynamo, she traveled to Mysore, India, to get a 200-hour yoga teacher certificate at the Ashtanga Yoga Mysore center. In 2016, while building her Dynamo clientele, she started Trés Intense Hip Hop Yoga, a 60-minute vinyasa flow class that she teaches four times a week at a cavernous space just off the Champs-Élysées.“Every time I teach a class, whether Dynamo or TI, I teach the class I would like to take,” Ms. Chaumet said. “I say aloud what I would say to myself: Take that risky path, follow what you really like.”A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2018, on Page ST9 of the New York edition with the headline: Going Somewhere By Pedaling in Place.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By VANESSA FRIEDMANMARCH 2, 2018
Each week, the Open Thread newsletter will offer a look from across The New York Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman as your personal shopper. The latest newsletter appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here.Greetings from Paris and happy March. It’s Oscars minus two, but you’d never know it here. There’s been some talk of viewing parties and staying up, but given the nine-hour time difference, the chances are slim. I usually make it to the first half hour or so of arrivals, and then my bleary eyes just give up.Missing the red carpet makes me almost as sad as missing the Olympics.Especially this year, given how big a role red carpets have played in the #MeToo conversation. The Oscars is not going to be a black-dress moment according to all reports, nor is it about white roses, so it will be especially interesting to see what part, if any, clothing will have this time around.The Oscars’ overlap with Paris Fashion Week also means there has been a smaller celebrity presence at the shows (they’re all detoxing before Sunday). This is a good thing, in part because it makes it easier to focus on what’s on the runway — even with the surprise industry news that Burberry had appointed a new designer to replace Christopher Bailey, an announcement no one had expected.AdvertisementBut then, they hadn’t expected the guy who got the job either.And it is … drumroll please … Riccardo Tisci, the Italian former creative director of Givenchy. Mr. Tisci had been out of a job since January of 2017, and he is known for his gothic-meets-street-meets-haute sensibility, as well as his friendships with various Kardashians, so it was an interesting choice for the brand that Britishness built. And it hadn’t been gossiped about or leaked before, which is pretty amazing in the sieve that fashion has become.AdvertisementAnyway, the reaction on the front row, after everyone picked their jaw up off the floor, was genuinely positive.This is both because people are excited to see what Mr. Tisci will do come next September, and because there was some fear that he would become part of what is shaping up to be a generation of lost designers: names like Alber Elbaz (ex-Lanvin), Peter Copping (ex-Oscar de la Renta), Stefano Pilati (ex-YSL and Zegna), Frida Giannini (ex-Gucci) and Marco Zanini (ex-Schiaparelli), all of whom have real talent, and all of whom are without full-time jobs.That’s a longer discussion, however. In the meantime, check out this piece on Justin Trudeau’s Bollywood style during his recent trip to India, meet Saint Laurent’s real power woman, catch up on the reviews — and have a great weekend.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Every week on Open Thread, Vanessa will answer a reader’s fashion-related question, which you can send to her anytime via email or Twitter. Questions are edited and condensed.Q: Could you possibly explain why most models look sullen, at best? Is there some philosophy around those expressions? — Holly, OregonA: This is a question I get asked at least once a season. There are designers who do ask their models to smile (or at least appear upbeat), but they are in the minority, for a few reasons.First, many are creating clothes that they see as armor or at least protection for the wearer, and they want to imbue them with a certain fierce presence, which usually translates as fierce — i.e. sullen — stares.Second, being a model on a runway is a bit like being a gladiator in the coliseum: stared at by a rapacious throng, often wearing a revealing costume you are not entirely convinced of; either too hot or too freezing; in pain because your sample-size shoes don’t fit; and sometimes terrified you are going to fall on your face. You’d be cranky too.And third — and I am speaking from experience here — fake smiles are worse than real frowns. By a long shot. I have been at shows were the models were told to skip and play, and with their frozen, unnatural grins, they looked like they were having a psychotic episode.AdvertisementThe fact is, the expression you refer to may simply be the fashion equivalent of R.B.F. We should support it. — VANESSA FRIEDMANLike what you see here? Submit any feedback to openthread@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRIS STANFORDAPRIL 3, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Some of the biggest companies in the U.S., including General Electric and Goldman Sachs, are warning the White House about the negative effects of punitive measures against China. They’re worried they’ll be cut off from the world’s most lucrative and fastest-growing market.China has long been accused of unfair economic practices, and the Trump administration has promised to crack down on such behavior. Now China is retaliating.• That’s unnerved the markets. Steep declines on Monday left stocks down more than 4 percent this year, and shares had their first quarterly decline since 2015. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.• President Trump is making a new push to crack down on those who enter the U.S. illegally, and to make it more difficult to get refuge in the country.AdvertisementFor two days, the president has warned that “caravans” of immigrants are heading toward the U.S. from Central America. We explain what those are.Advertisement• Separately on Monday, Russia pressed Mr. Trump to meet with President Vladimir Putin at the White House, a visit that the Kremlin said Mr. Trump proposed last month.• Last year, the Environmental Protection Agency approved a Canadian energy company’s pipeline-expansion plan. At the same time, the agency’s chief, Scott Pruitt, was renting a condominium linked to the company’s lobbying firm.Mr. Pruitt was paying $50 a night for the condo on Capitol Hill, where rates are typically considerably higher. Both the E.P.A. and the lobbying firm deny that there was a connection between the rental and the deal’s approval.• Separately, Mr. Pruitt said on Monday that Obama-era car pollution standards were “too high,” setting up a fight with California, which has the authority to set its own emissions rules and wants to stick with tougher regulations. We looked at how U.S. fuel economy standards compare with those of other countries.• Thousands of teachers in Kentucky and Oklahoma walked off the job on Monday, shutting down schools as they protested cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts and rallies, which followed a similar movement in West Virginia last month, have caught lawmakers and sometimes the teachers’ labor unions flat-footed.• In Kentucky, “What I’m seeing in Louisville is teachers are a lot more politically engaged than they were in 2015 or 2016,” a math teacher said. “It really is a wildfire.”• After a cheerleader for the New Orleans Saints was fired for posting a picture that the team deemed inappropriate to her private Instagram account, a Times reporter reviewed seven of the N.F.L.’s cheerleader handbooks.AdvertisementHe found stringent rules governing personal hygiene, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons, as well as attire outside the workplace. In some cases, wearing sweatpants in public is forbidden.• The N.F.L. declined to comment.The Second Amendment is just 27 words, but it is at the heart of contentious debates on gun control. Why is the Supreme Court reluctant to clarify it?• Tesla says that it has addressed bottlenecks in production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week. The vehicle is crucial to the company’s efforts to shore up its finances.• In his first report to Congress as the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Mick Mulvaney asked lawmakers to severely curb his agency’s power and independence.• Facebook should consider adding a “Why me?” button next to all pushed content, our business columnist writes.• Nirav Modi has been a jeweler to the stars. He’s now on the run, accused of bank fraud. The chase has both enraged and captivated his homeland, India.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Exercising while young might create more heart-muscle cells.• Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up.• Recipe of the day: Don’t stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus.AdvertisementOur journalists recommend these great pieces:• “I wrote a story about dulse a while ago. This led to a lot of people asking me what it is, and where it comes from.The short answer is that it’s seaweed, and a lot of it comes from Grand Manan, in New Brunswick.Check out this beautiful short film by Tory Lovekin, ‘Dark Harbour Dollar: Dulse,’ for more.” [Vimeo]— Sam Sifton, food editor• In memoriamWinnie Madikizela-Mandela was a leader in South Africa’s fight against apartheid, but her legacy was tarnished by scandals involving corruption, kidnapping, murder and the implosion of her marriage to Nelson Mandela. She was 81.• 130 miles, 26 checkpointsFew American reporters have spent more time reporting from Iraq in the last 15 years than Alissa J. Rubin, who was Baghdad bureau chief for The Times at the height of the conflict.She returned to the region in January and, in a drive to the Iraq-Syria border, found that competing military and militia groups had set up checkpoints everywhere. Here’s her account of the journey.• The mummy and the F.B.I.A museum wasn’t sure whose head it had put on display. So F.B.I. forensic scientists were called in to crack the coldest of cases.• Villanova makes it look easyThe Wildcats completed a dominant run through the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, crushing Michigan, 79-62.It’s the second title in three years for Villanova, whose star on Monday was Donte DiVincenzo and his 31 points.Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Best of late-night TVThe comedy hosts were puzzled after President Trump declared April to be National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. “April is also National Presidential Unawareness Month,” Jimmy Fallon said.Advertisement• Quotation of the day“We’re going to have a lot of teachers at the ballot box who I don’t think would normally go in a midterm year. If I were a legislator right now, I’d be honestly sweating bullets.”— Noah Karvelis, an elementary school music teacher in Arizona fighting for better pay.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kong’s new relationship with the People’s Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flag’s two colors are said to represent the “one country, two systems” principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.AdvertisementIn recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 7:05 P.M. E.D.T.
SHANGHAI/SINGAPORE —  When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators' watchful eyes.Li, a Canada-based Chinese banker in his 20s, is one of these underground traders. He buys cryptocurrencies in other markets and sells them at a premium to investors in China, who cannot otherwise get them.At the height of the frenzied demand for bitcoins in January, when prices of the digital currency were hovering close to $20,000 after a 20-fold jump during 2017, Li and other traders were able to sell bitcoins in China for 30 to 40 percent more than they cost elsewhere.But in a matter of months, the premium for bitcoins in China has fallen to around 7 percent or less as a flood of bitcoin mules, who physically carry cash across borders for the trades, has swamped the arbitrage business. Cryptocurrency funds and individual computer-assisted traders have also piled into the market.AdvertisementThe boom has eaten away the spreads and shown how fast the galloping cryptocurrency markets can change course.Advertisement"The market's kind of taken a downturn; there is less general appetite in this space," said John DeCleene, an assistant fund manager running the fintech and cryptocurrency investments at Overseas Chinese Investment Management."It is too many players entering this market, but also less of the hype we saw in December-January, when people were paying a 30 percent premium because they expected 10 times gains overnight."DeCleene launched a $5 million Singapore-based global fund in November to invest in cryptocurrencies, blockchain-related equities and some exploratory arbitrage trading. He said it has generated a 58 percent return so far.BITCOIN MULESBitcoin arbitrage thrived last year as the cryptocurrency grew more volatile and some governments stepped in with rules to curtail trading.The simplest geographical arbitrage involved buying bitcoin in unregulated markets such as Thailand, or ones that have legalised bitcoin trading such as Japan, and selling them in banned markets such as South Korea, China or India.A second form occurred between exchanges, when nimble-footed traders bought cryptocurrencies cheaply on lesser-known exchanges and sold them for a profit on more liquid and widely used platforms.There were huge price differences to exploit.In early January, when the price of bitcoin was $17,600 on Bitstamp, the Luxembourg-based digital currency exchange, it was being quoted at 25 million won ($23,630) in South Korea, implying a 34 percent "kimchi premium".AdvertisementAs China's ban expanded from an initial prohibition on issuing new cryptocurrency to a shutdown of exchanges, premiums rose and traders quickly found new ways of doing business.At first, it was limited to closed groups on the popular messaging platform WeChat and meetings at bars, where potential bitcoin buyers could meet sellers.Then peer-to-peer platforms such as CoinCola, websites belonging to former Chinese exchanges Huobi and OKCoin, and even the retail platform Taobao became hubs for "over-the-counter" (OTC) cryptocurrency trading, conducted outside of formal exchanges and far more difficult for regulators to police.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The big Chinese traders are all using CoinCola or going direct to each other through other OTC platforms," like WeChat or AliPay, said Christian Grewell, a professor of business and interactive media arts at NYU in Shanghai who has lectured extensively on cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology.AliPay is China's leading online payment platform.Another option, bank transfers between buyers and sellers, is "almost untraceable", Grewell added, as it is difficult to prove that a transfer is related to a cryptocurrency transaction.A trader in her 20s in Shanghai said she buys bitcoins in the United States to sell over the counter in China. On each trip to the U.S., she illegally carries $30,000 to $40,000 in cash, she added."Selling and buying bitcoins on those OTC websites is the same as shopping on Taobao," said the trader.BIG COMPETITIONHedge funds that can execute arbitrage trades quickly and at a fraction of the cost are squeezing individual traders, said Ramani Ramachandran, the chief executive of digital exchange Zenprivex.Peter Kim of KIT Trading, part of Vulpes Investment Management, manages a $10 million cryptocurrency arbitrage operation.Advertisement"In the beginning, when there is 30 percent arbitrage, obviously you can travel to Thailand, buy bitcoins, send them to China, Japan, Korea and sell them. That's easy," said Kim, who was formerly an options arbitrage trader."But that opportunity is not going to last very long. And even though it is not as blatantly there, there are still many ways to profit from it, especially for someone like me who is used to making 3 basis points on a trade," he added.The arbitrage funds operate much like retail traders, buying and selling cryptocurrencies simultaneously on two different platforms, but on a much larger scale. That allows them to profit from smaller spreads.Some retail traders, including Li, have turned to lesser-known cryptocurrencies such as Tether, which bills itself as being pegged to the U.S. dollar.Tether is popular with Chinese seeking to move their cash discreetly overseas, as it is not volatile. That demand means it trades at a 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent premium in China, although the number was as high as 10 percent in January.Li said his arbitrage activity nets him about $18,000 a month on a trading volume of about half a million dollars.Although that is a tidy sum, it is far less than what frantic traders made late last year."The easy arbitrage is going to be much less prevalent now than it used to be," Kim said.(Reporting and writing by Vidya Ranganathan; Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim in SEOUL; Editing by Gerry Doyle)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINEMARCH 1, 2018
RE: RUSSIAKarl Ove Knausgaard wrote about his journey into the heart of Russia.When I think of Russia, I try to bypass my present political impressions. This has been a country that has seen its share of suffering and suppression, but through its turmoil, it has gifted us with some of the best literature and music of the world: Tolstoy and Pasternak, Rachmaninoff, Tchaikovsky and Borodin’s ethereal “Polovtsian Dances.” I see a people who are poets and who are still searching.My mother-in-law, long passed, grew up in that part of the world, eastern Poland, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. During World War I, she was inadvertently shot during a battle and subsequently hospitalized. One day she was seen crying by a recuperating Russian soldier. He reached out and kindly said to her: “Please stop your tears. You will be happy and healthy and have five wonderful sons.” She never forgot him. After becoming an American citizen, she would retell that story to each of her four sons. Kathy Lollock, Santa Rosa, Calif.When I was growing up in India, the “good vs. evil” narrative wasn’t as omnipresent given that our now discarded system of state-controlled socialism was modeled after the U.S.S.R. The following line from Knausgaard so aptly sums up my feelings: “When I got older and started to read, the situation became more complicated, because it was from Russia that the best and most intense literature came.” I must have been 12 when I read my first Chekhov short story. To me, he remains the most eloquent and honest storyteller of the human condition. For so long now, I have wanted to travel to Russia to see Chekhov’s towns and villages and meet and get to know the people, but somehow I never got around to it. I have been to other parts of the former U.S.S.R., which has only heightened the fascination. I know I, too, am guilty of “myths and romantic imagery.” This lovely read made my Russia travel lust even greater. Will be sure to reread it when I finally make my trip to Russia. Sharadiya, New YorkRE: BLACK PANTHERCarvell Wallace wrote about the significance of the “Black Panther” film to black audiences.Fantastic article. Years ago, I remember Michelle Obama was chastised by white Americans for saying something like: For the first time in my life, I am proud of my country. I remember my rage at the reaction. Did white Americans know nothing of the history of oppression? It is easy for me to understand the disillusionment of African-Americans with a country that has systematically abused and rejected them. Even today, Waco, Tex., has no memorial to Jesse Washington, a man whose horrific murder in that city in 1916 led to a national outcry against lynching.AdvertisementI am not of African background, but I am nonwhite and a lifelong fan of Marvel Comics. When I was a child, the only superhero that I could picture myself being was T’Challa, because he was the only one who came anywhere close to looking like me. The reality of seeing yourself represented, especially for children, really does affect what you can imagine yourself being. When “Black Panther” debuts, I plan to be there, happily joining the trip to Wakanda. Shaun Narine, Fredericton, New BrunswickThis article crystallized what I could not communicate to my nonblack friends about this movie. This is a historical event for us. A coming together. A challenge to an assigned inferiority complex. A reminder to the world that we know how great we are; the rest of you need to catch up.This moment is about more than a comic-book character in a fictitious country. It’s a response to a longing in our hearts. This is Obama’s inauguration. This is M.L.K.’s speech in Washington. This is “Roots” ’s first airing. This is speaking to people who refuse to accept that they are lesser. As a result, we will naturally bond, blend and embrace one another in this mutual recognition of what we so desire, what we lack and what we hope to be.AdvertisementWallace highlighted the joke on Twitter. “This is what white people get to feel all the time?” Yes, I assume it is, and they take it for granted. The infrequency of the experience for us creates euphoria of apocalyptic proportions. I’m so Blackity Black right now, nothing can kill my swag. I’m going to see “Black Panther” in preview with my own king in full regalia. And as black Twitter has quipped, “I wonder if the theater will let me bring my spear?” Peggy Goodwin, Englewood, N.J.Illustrations by Giacomo GambineriSign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2018, on Page MM7 of the Sunday Magazine.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MIKE IVESAPRIL 2, 2018
MUMBAI, India — Growing up in Mumbai, Manan Gandhi was entranced by the smells of the geranium, patchouli and rose oil extracts that his father brought home from business trips to Egypt, Indonesia and Turkey.“I was like, ‘Why do we have all this stuff at home,’” he recalled, “‘and why is it in the safe?’”He said his early impressions of the essential oils trade, where today some rare ingredients sell for as much as $20,000 per liter, made him eager to follow in his father’s footsteps. And eventually he did, founding an essential-oil trading company in France in 2012 after earning an undergraduate business degree in the United States and a master’s in France.But after about two years of crossing the globe as a trader supplying oils to major European fragrance houses, Mr. Gandhi, now 32, felt an urge to return to his hometown — which is still widely known by its former name, Bombay — and start a high-end perfume company.AdvertisementThe result was Bombay Perfumery, a label that Mr. Gandhi introduced in late 2016 and whose name plays on one of his father’s old ventures, Bombay Perfumery Products. Bombay Perfumery’s eau de parfum fragrances are manufactured in the French city of Grasse, the perfume capital of the world, but sold through the business’s website and at 15 high-end concept stores and multibrand boutiques across India.AdvertisementBombay Perfumery “took this very strong tradition of scents in India, and they packaged it in a European way,” said Cecilia Morelli Parikh, one of the founders of Le Mill, a Mumbai fashion boutique that sells the label’s eight fragrances alongside clothing by high-end foreign and Indian designers. “But it’s not a European product; it’s strongly both.”Mr. Gandhi’s business is one of several independent perfume brands that have sprung up recently in India, a country with a strong domestic perfuming tradition but a luxury fragrance sector dominated almost exclusively by imports.Bombay Perfumery’s fragrances, which sell online for $80 to $90 for 100 milliliters, do not exclusively feature Indian ingredients. The fragrance Sulawesi is named for the Indonesian island where Mr. Gandhi buys patchouli, for example, while Moiré highlights a synthetic ingredient engineered in a laboratory to resemble the smell of leather.Yet the fragrance line is full of subtle allusions to Indian scents, places and history. Mr. Gandhi said the aim of his branding and marketing was to conjure nostalgia for bygone eras and local fragrance traditions. Calicut, for example, highlights black pepper and uses the former name of the southern Indian city of Kozhikode, while Madurai Talkies pays homage to jasmine from around the southern city of Madurai.(And “talkies” was slang for “talking pictures,” the term used in the 1920s for the first movies with sound. “It’s a very romantic fragrance,” Mr. Gandhi said, “and Indian movies, at least in the past, were all about romance.”)The nostalgic theme is enhanced by the collages printed inside the perfume boxes, juxtaposing images of the ingredients with those of old Mumbai buildings. And the glass perfume bottles are made in the shape of a matka, a jug commonly used in Indian villages to store water.Yet, Mr. Gandhi said, he tried to avoid the “kitschy, traditional stereotype of what Western people have about India,” in part by using a minimalist design on the outside of the boxes — a look that matches the aesthetic of his sleek office in central Mumbai.AdvertisementHe also commissioned a modern twist on chai, a milky sweet tea ubiquitous in India. Mr. Gandhi said his Chai Musk fragrance includes two actual chai ingredients — ginger and lemongrass — along with sandalwood to suggest what he called a “milky note” and osmanthus for a “fruity pop.”The fragrance “reminds me of home a little bit, which I find quite nice,” said Lekha Washington, an artist from southern India who lives in Mumbai and has collaborated with the brand.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She added that she appreciated how Bombay Perfumery played on a range of emotions beyond the one that perfume brands typically target: lust.Mr. Gandhi said the eight fragrances were created, after much trial and error, by two French perfumers in Grasse and two in Paris. He gave them general guidance on which ingredients to highlight, he said, but more creative license than they normally receive from major perfume brands and fragrance houses.He said the overall idea was to make the final creations “polarizing enough for people to remember,” and that Chai Musk, what he called the line’s most “out there” fragrance, was suggested by a Paris perfumer who had traveled widely in India and wanted to celebrate a citrusy chai she once tasted in Mumbai.“Maybe a lot of brands would have been like, ‘No, we don’t want anything to do with that,’” Mr. Gandhi said over chai in his office. “But I was like, ‘Yeah, let’s go ahead — why don’t we explore that direction?’ So it was really fun for them because they had a chance to really go wild.”Maurice Roucel, a master perfumer in France who has created fragrances for major luxury brands (but not Bombay Perfumery), said he was impressed by the quality of the label’s fragrances and that they certainly could appeal to consumers in Europe, the United States and South America.“Perhaps not France,” he added, “because in France we are very picky.”Although Mr. Gandhi plans eventually to introduce his perfumes in Europe and the United States, for now his primary market is young, fashion-forward Indians who, he said, are embracing other homegrown independent labels in clothing, food, music and design.“When we were younger there was this notion that all things luxury were better only if they were European, but now it’s not the case,” he said, referring to his own generation of Indian consumers. “Most young people now give homegrown brands a chance — as long as they ensure the quality is there.”AdvertisementHowever, he added, he sees his competition as independent foreign perfume labels, not Indian ones. As for the most popular ones in India now, he listed Amouage, a fragrance company based in Oman; the Dutch brand Nasomatto; Tom Ford; and Jo Malone London as among the top choices.He declined to provide sales figures, but said Bombay Perfumery was adding nearly one new boutique a month and making 40 percent of its sales online, mostly to clients in India.To help grow a domestic fan base, the label holds occasional events at cafes, boutiques and art galleries in major Indian cities. Mr. Gandhi said the goal was to encourage leaders in various creative fields to use fragrance as a muse for artistic projects.Ms. Washington, for example, created an experiential installation that featured a wall covered with drawings of windows. A collection of about 200 stamps, some of which were meant to represent Bombay Perfumery fragrances, sat on a nearby table, and visitors were encouraged to select stamps that reflected their impressions of Mumbai’s “smell and vibe” and use them on the wall.Another event was a storytelling workshop geared to olfactory memories. Mr. Gandhi said some participants came away saying that it helped them remember their childhoods — an aquatic scent, for example, triggered a distant memory of the Goa seaside.He said the events were primarily brand-building exercises.“It’s not a hard sell,” an audience member told him after the storytelling workshop. “You’re not even trying to sell me perfume.”Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 9:02 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  India's Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Tuesday withdrew a sweeping new order clamping down on journalists accused of spreading fake news.The U-turn came hours after the ministry announced that reporters' press credentials could be suspended simply for an accusation of spreading fake news.The rules, issued by a government often deeply sensitive to media criticism, angered journalists and opposition politicians, who called it an attempt to gag the media in the run-up to national elections expected next year.Several Indian news outlets reported that the initial order, announced late Monday night, was withdrawn on the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who said that issues surrounding fake news should be dealt with by the Press Council of India, a semi-independent press group.AdvertisementOn Tuesday afternoon, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting issued only a terse statement saying that the press release that announced the new guidelines to regulate fake news "stands withdrawn."AdvertisementThrough Tuesday morning there was anger against the order."Make no mistake: this is a breathtaking assault on mainstream media," Shekhar Gupta, a senior political journalist, tweeted after the new rules were announced. The order did not define fake news or make clear who could make a complaint.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was unclear what caused the reversal, particularly with a prime minister who takes pride in being deeply involved in nearly all major decisions.Journalists welcomed the change, though many were also wary about what had happened."We should all remain vigilant that if a government does this kind of a thing then you never know" when they will do it again, said Gautam Lahiri, president of the Press Club of India.Late Monday, the information ministry announced that the accreditation of any journalist who "created and/or propagated the fake news" would be suspended until an inquiry was completed. The statement said anyone found to be peddling fake news would lose their government accreditation for six months in the first case, one year in the second case and permanently if it happens again.While a journalist in India can work without government accreditation, a press card from the federal Press Information Bureau is required to cover government events and ministries and get access to the houses of Parliament.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 3:35 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ordered the withdrawal of a move to crack down on journalists responsible for distributing fake news, a senior government official said on Tuesday."The prime minister has directed that the press statement regarding fake news be withdrawn and the matter be addressed in the Press Council of India," a senior official in Modi's told Reuters. No reason was given.The Information and Broadcasting Ministry had said the government would withdraw accreditation of journalists who peddle fake news.Journalists and opposition parties had described the rules as an effort by Modi's government to control the press ahead of a general election due by next year.(Reporting by Manoj Kumar; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 1:29 P.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  ArcelorMittal SA, Vedanta Resources and a group comprising Russia's VTB and top Indian steelmaker JSW Steel have bid for bankrupt steelmaker Essar Steel India, the companies said, after a deadline for bids on Monday.Essar Steel is among a dozen of India's biggest debt defaulters that were pushed into the bankruptcy court last year after a central bank order aimed at clearing record bad loans at the country's banks.A previous round of bids for Essar Steel, which faces nearly $8 billion (5.70 billion pounds) in claims from its creditors, had attracted interest from ArcelorMittal and a VTB-led group. But a court-appointed administrator scrapped that round saying neither of the bidders was eligible to bid for the asset due to their links with loan-defaulting companies.ArcelorMittal, which has long been trying to get a foothold in the booming Indian market with its own steel plant, said on Monday its India unit had submitted a bid for Essar Steel in a joint venture with Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp.AdvertisementArcelorMittal earlier sold its stake in another Indian company Uttam Galva Steels Ltd - which has defaulted on bank loans - to clear the way for a bid for Essar Steel. India's bankruptcy laws bar a company with any connection to a loan defaulter bidding for assets being auctioned under the bankruptcy process.AdvertisementOn March 24, Uttam Galva said the stock exchanges had approved "declassification" of ArcelorMittal as a promoter, or main backer, of the company."We are confident we are eligible; we are confident we have the strongest track record; and we are confident we have made a strong and competitive offer," ArcelorMittal's India-born chief Lakshmi Mittal said in a statement on Monday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He did not say what the offer was.NuMetal, a company led by Russia's VTB, which also submitted bids for Essar Steel on Monday, has partnered JSW Steel in the latest round, according to a statement from the Indian steelmaker.JSW Steel's Joint Managing Director Seshagiri Rao told Reuters it had agreed to partner NuMetal after being approached by the company.Anil Agarwal, the billionaire chief of London-headquartered Vedanta, said on Indian television station CNBC TV18 that they had put in a bid for Essar Steel.The group's India-listed Vedanta Ltd last week was successful in an auction to buy another bankrupt steelmaker Electro Steels.($1 = 65.1100 Indian rupees)(Reporting by Promit Mukherjee; Editing by Devidutta Tripathy and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 6:30 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  Violence erupted in several parts of northern and central India on Monday as thousands of dalits, members of Hinduism's lowest caste, protested an order from the country's top court that they say dilutes legal safeguards put in place for their marginalized community.Caste prejudice is endemic in Hindu-majority India, even though the constitution outlaws the practice and has made it a crime punishable by up to a year in prison.The law also states that anyone accused of a caste-related crime could face immediate arrest. However, last month the Supreme Court ruled that in order to prevent misuse of the law, government officers accused of flouting it can be arrested only after their supervisors sign off on an inquiry.Dalit groups say that the law is already poorly enforced with abysmally low conviction rates and that the top court's order dilutes it further. Several groups called for a nationwide protest on Monday demanding that the top court review its order.AdvertisementAs protests spread across the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, India's law minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, told reporters that the federal government would petition the court seeking a review.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The dalits are lowest in Hinduism's caste hierarchy and for centuries were marginalized and forced to perform only certain jobs considered menial by other castes. These included skinning dead animal carcasses and cleaning toilets. They were not allowed into temples or permitted to study religious texts.Independent India's constitution, which came into effect in 1950, outlawed the practice of discriminating on the basis of caste. Over the years, stringent laws were put into place to deter the practice. But caste-based discrimination continues even though it's less visible in modern India.AdvertisementLast week, news reports said a dalit man was hacked to death by upper caste villagers because he owned and rode a horse, long considered a status symbol in rural India. Dalit schoolchildren routinely complain of being mistreated in schools and colleges.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 5:48 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  A four-story rickety hotel building collapsed in central India, killing at least 10 people and injuring three, police said Sunday.Rescuers working through the night with sledgehammers and chain saws pulled alive 10 people from the debris of the building, which came crashing down Saturday night in Indore, a city in Madhya Pradesh state, said police officer Sanju Kamle.Up to five people may still be trapped under the rubble, said Nishant Warwade, the district collector.The Times of India newspaper said the dilapidated building collapsed after a car smashed into its front portion.AdvertisementThe hotel with 25 rooms was located in the commercial hub of Indore, close to railway and bus stations. Indore is around 900 kilometers (560 miles) south of New Delhi.Building collapses are common in India as builders try to cut corners by using substandard materials, and as multi-story structures are erected with inadequate supervision. The massive demand for housing around India's cities and pervasive corruption often result in builders adding unauthorized floors or putting up illegal buildings.AdvertisementIn August 2017, 33 people were killed when an apartment building collapsed in India's financial capital of Mumbai.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 9:12 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  A special plane carrying the bodies of 38 Indian construction workers killed by the Islamic State group in Iraq arrived in the northern Indian city of Amritsar on Monday.Indian Junior Defense Minister V.K. Singh flew back with the bodies.The Islamic State group abducted and killed the workers shortly after seizing the northern Iraqi city of Mosul in the summer of 2014. Iraqi authorities discovered the remains in a mass grave last year after retaking Mosul, and identified the bodies last month.Forty workers were initially abducted. One escaped and the presumed remains of another have yet to be positively identified. Authorities are awaiting DNA samples from a close relative.The workers were mostly from northern India's Punjab state and had been employed by a construction company operating near Mosul. Around 10,000 Indians lived and worked in Iraq at the time. The victims may have been killed because of their Hindu or Sikh faith.AdvertisementThe Islamic State group swept across northern and central Iraq in 2014, eventually seizing a third of the country. Iraqi forces backed by a U.S.-led coalition eventually drove the militants from all the territory under their control in a grueling three-year campaign. The militants are still carrying out insurgent-style attacks.Dozens of mass graves have been found in areas held by the extremist group, which boasted about massacring its enemies and posted videos and photos of many of the mass killings online. Iraq has only managed to excavate a few of the sites due to a lack of funding and specialized staff.Advertisement"We are thankful to the authorities in Iraq for the help to locate the victims and exhume the mortal remains. The government of India did its best to know about the missing Indians," Singh told reporters in Amritsar.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 8:15 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, faces increasing isolation in his home in exile as India tones down an assertive stand toward its powerful neighbor and rival, China, in the hope of calming ties strained by a border stand-off.The Asian giants were locked in a 73-day military face off in a remote, high-altitude stretch of their disputed border last year, with, at one point, soldiers from the two sides throwing punches and stones at each other.The confrontation between the nuclear-armed powers in the Himalayas underscored Indian alarm at China's expanding security and economic links in South Asia.China's ambitious Belt and Road initiative of transport and energy links bypasses India, apart from a corner of the disputed Kashmir region, also claimed by Pakistan, but involves India's neighbors Sri Lanka, Nepal and the Maldives.AdvertisementNow Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nationalist government, is reversing course, apparently after realizing its hard line on China was not working, and the Dalai Lama is facing the cold shoulder.Advertisement"We are moving forward with this relationship, the idea is to put the events of 2017 behind us," an Indian government source involved in China policy said.The idea is to "be sensitive" to each other's core concerns and not let differences turn into disputes, the source said.The Dalai Lama has lived mostly in the north Indian town of Dharamsala since 1959, when he fled a Chinese crackdown on an uprising in his homeland.In Dharamsala, his supporters run a small government in exile and campaign for autonomy for Tibet by peaceful means. India has allowed him to pursue his religious activities in the country and to travel abroad.Early this month, India issued an unprecedented ban on Tibetans holding a rally with the Dalai Lama in New Delhi to mark the 60th anniversary of the start of the failed uprising against Chinese rule.'DEEPLY RESPECTED'This week, the Dalai Lama canceled a visit to the Indian border state of Sikkim this week, hosted by authorities there, officials say, lest it offended China.Sikkim is south of the Doklam plateau where the hundreds of Indian and Chinese soldiers confronted each other last year after India objected to China's construction of a road in an area claimed by India's tiny ally, Bhutan.AdvertisementEven "thank you" rallies by Tibetans planned for New Delhi to show appreciation to India for hosting the Dalai Lama and his followers have been shifted to Dharamsala.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.India's foreign ministry said the government had not changed its position on the Dalai Lama."He is a revered religious leader and is deeply respected by the people of India. His Holiness is accorded all freedom to carry out his religious activities in India," spokesman Raveesh Kumar said.But India's recent attitude is in stark contrast with his former treatment.In 2016, the Dalai Lama was invited to India's presidential palace for a ceremony honoring Nobel Peace prize winners. The government later allowed him to visit the disputed state of Arunachal Pradesh, disregarding Chinese objections.China reviles the Dalai Lama as a dangerous separatist and his activities in India have always been a source of friction, and a tool with which India can needle China."Tibet has utility to irritate China, but it is becoming costly for us now. They are punishing us," said P. Stobdan, a former Indian ambassador.China has blocked India's membership of a nuclear cartel and it also blocks U.N. sanctions against a Pakistan-based militant leader blamed for attacks on India.'UNDERSTANDING AND RESPECT'The Tibetan government-in-exile has been phlegmatic, expressing understanding of the shifting circumstances and gratitude to India for hosting the Dalai Lama for 60 years."The Indian government has its reasons why, these coming months are sensitive, and we completely understand and respect that so there's no disappointment at all," Lobsang Sangay, the head of the government in exile told reporters.China has hailed better ties."Everyone can see that recently, due to the efforts of both sides, China-India relations have maintained positive momentum and development, and exchanges and cooperation in all areas have achieved new progress," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang said on Thursday.AdvertisementLu said China was willing to work with India to maintain exchanges on all levels and to increase mutual political trust and "appropriately control differences".A flurry of visits is planned.Next week, India National Security Adviser Ajit Doval is heading to China and Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj is due to visit in April.Modi will visit in June for a regional conference and talks with President Xi Jinping.The two sides are also expected to revive "hand-in-hand" counter-terrorism exercises when India's defense minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, visits China in April, a defense source said. The drills were suspended earlier.(Additional reporting Michael Martina in BEIJING; Abhishek Madhukar in DHARAMSALA and Zarir Hussain in GUWAHATI; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:18 P.M. E.D.T.
JERUSALEM —  Israel's national carrier filed a lawsuit against the government on Wednesday for allowing Air India to fly over Saudi airspace on its New Delhi-Tel Aviv flights, a move El Al says puts it at an unfair disadvantage.El Al claims that when it was privatized back in the 1990s, the Israeli government at the time pledged to "encourage fair and healthy competition" between Israeli airlines and their foreign competitors. This promise is now being undermined, El Al said.Saudi Arabia and Israel have no diplomatic ties. The kingdom's decision to allow the Indian carrier to fly through its airspace en route to Tel Aviv reflected a recent, behind-the-scenes warming of ties between the two countries.But El Al says it has been harmed as a result. It currently has the only flights connecting Mumbai to Tel Aviv but is forced to bypass Saudi Arabia on that route. The new Air India route significantly shortens travel time and airfare costs.AdvertisementEl Al is asking that the Air India flights be halted until Israeli airlines are also allowed to fly over Saudi Arabia. The suit also names Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel's transport minister, Yisrael Katz, and Air India.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Israeli government has lauded the new Air India route from New Delhi to Tel Aviv as a symbol of tightening ties between the countries, as well as a harbinger of Israel's improving status in the region. Israel says it has seen a 33 percent uptick this year in incoming tourism from India.Netanyahu has said he sees "huge" potential for Israel from the flights over Saudi airspace with "long-term implications."AdvertisementThe first flight Air India flight over Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf states landed last week.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:56 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Toyota Motor Corp will mutually supply cars in India with Suzuki Motor Corp starting in 2019, a move that would expand the Japanese company's foothold in emerging markets, the Nikkei reported on Wednesday.Suzuki, through its unit Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, will supply Toyota with 30,000 to 50,000 units of its Baleno and Vitara SUV cars annually, according to the Nikkei report (https://s.nikkei.com/2pIO0GX).Toyota which holds only 3.5 percent of India's vehicle market share, will provide Suzuki with around 10,000 units yearly of its Corolla in both hybrid and gasoline models, the Japanese business daily reported.In November, the companies collaborated to sell electric vehicles in India from 2020, aiming to gain access in emerging markets and low-emission technology.Toyota and Maruti were not immediately available for comment outside regular business hours.(Reporting by Jaslein Mahil in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 12:23 A.M. E.D.T.
SHANGHAI/SINGAPORE —  When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators' watchful eyes.Li, a Canada-based Chinese banker in his 20s, is one of these underground traders. He buys cryptocurrencies in other markets and sells them at a premium to investors in China, who cannot otherwise get them.At the height of the frenzied demand for bitcoins in January, when prices of the digital currency were hovering close to $20,000 after a 20-fold jump during 2017, Li and other traders were able to sell bitcoins in China for 30 to 40 percent more than they cost elsewhere.But in a matter of months, the premium for bitcoins in China has fallen to around 7 percent or less as a flood of bitcoin mules, who physically carry cash across borders for the trades, has swamped the arbitrage business. Cryptocurrency funds and individual computer-assisted traders have also piled into the market.AdvertisementThe boom has eaten away the spreads and shown how fast the galloping cryptocurrency markets can change course.Advertisement"The market's kind of taken a downturn; there is less general appetite in this space," said John DeCleene, an assistant fund manager running the fintech and cryptocurrency investments at Overseas Chinese Investment Management."It is too many players entering this market, but also less of the hype we saw in December-January, when people were paying a 30 percent premium because they expected 10 times gains overnight."DeCleene launched a $5 million Singapore-based global fund in November to invest in cryptocurrencies, blockchain-related equities and some exploratory arbitrage trading. He said it has generated a 58 percent return so far.BITCOIN MULESBitcoin arbitrage thrived last year as the cryptocurrency grew more volatile and some governments stepped in with rules to curtail trading.The simplest geographical arbitrage involved buying bitcoin in unregulated markets such as Thailand, or ones that have legalised bitcoin trading such as Japan, and selling them in banned markets such as South Korea, China or India.A second form occurred between exchanges, when nimble-footed traders bought cryptocurrencies cheaply on lesser-known exchanges and sold them for a profit on more liquid and widely used platforms.There were huge price differences to exploit.In early January, when the price of bitcoin was $17,600 on Bitstamp, the Luxembourg-based digital currency exchange, it was being quoted at 25 million won (16,845 pounds) in South Korea, implying a 34 percent "kimchi premium".AdvertisementAs China's ban expanded from an initial prohibition on issuing new cryptocurrency to a shutdown of exchanges, premiums rose and traders quickly found new ways of doing business.At first, it was limited to closed groups on the popular messaging platform WeChat and meetings at bars, where potential bitcoin buyers could meet sellers.Then peer-to-peer platforms such as CoinCola, websites belonging to former Chinese exchanges Huobi and OKCoin, and even the retail platform Taobao became hubs for "over-the-counter" (OTC) cryptocurrency trading, conducted outside of formal exchanges and far more difficult for regulators to police.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The big Chinese traders are all using CoinCola or going direct to each other through other OTC platforms," like WeChat or AliPay, said Christian Grewell, a professor of business and interactive media arts at NYU in Shanghai who has lectured extensively on cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology.AliPay is China's leading online payment platform.Another option, bank transfers between buyers and sellers, is "almost untraceable", Grewell added, as it is difficult to prove that a transfer is related to a cryptocurrency transaction.A trader in her 20s in Shanghai said she buys bitcoins in the United States to sell over the counter in China. On each trip to the U.S., she illegally carries $30,000 to $40,000 in cash, she added."Selling and buying bitcoins on those OTC websites is the same as shopping on Taobao," said the trader.BIG COMPETITIONHedge funds that can execute arbitrage trades quickly and at a fraction of the cost are squeezing individual traders, said Ramani Ramachandran, the chief executive of digital exchange Zenprivex.Peter Kim of KIT Trading, part of Vulpes Investment Management, manages a $10 million cryptocurrency arbitrage operation.Advertisement"In the beginning, when there is 30 percent arbitrage, obviously you can travel to Thailand, buy bitcoins, send them to China, Japan, Korea and sell them. That's easy," said Kim, who was formerly an options arbitrage trader."But that opportunity is not going to last very long. And even though it is not as blatantly there, there are still many ways to profit from it, especially for someone like me who is used to making 3 basis points on a trade," he added.The arbitrage funds operate much like retail traders, buying and selling cryptocurrencies simultaneously on two different platforms, but on a much larger scale. That allows them to profit from smaller spreads.Some retail traders, including Li, have turned to lesser-known cryptocurrencies such as Tether, which bills itself as being pegged to the U.S. dollar.Tether is popular with Chinese seeking to move their cash discreetly overseas, as it is not volatile. That demand means it trades at a 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent premium in China, although the number was as high as 10 percent in January.Li said his arbitrage activity nets him about $18,000 a month on a trading volume of about half a million dollars.Although that is a tidy sum, it is far less than what frantic traders made late last year."The easy arbitrage is going to be much less prevalent now than it used to be," Kim said.(Reporting and writing by Vidya Ranganathan; Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim in SEOUL; Editing by Gerry Doyle)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ADAM BAIDAWIAPRIL 2, 2018
GOLD COAST, Australia — Amid the skyscrapers and coastline of Surfers Paradise here, you can spot a large surfboard with a digital clock, determinedly counting down. The Commonwealth Games will descend this week onto the Gold Coast’s beaches, bringing with it the world’s best athletes and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact.The weekslong multisport event has gathered various nations of the British Commonwealth every four years since 1930, barring a few wartime aberrations. It was originally known as the British Empire Games, hosting various combinations of countries, with Australia and Britain among the mainstays. The 2018 Games will draw athletes from 71 Commonwealth nations and territories who will compete in 275 events over 18 sports.[READ MORE: The Lure of Australia’s Gold Coast]Despite the impending glow of an international audience, familiar concerns over the Games’ substantial cost and dwindling significance have again come to the fore, this time in the Australian state of Queensland.There’s little doubt the Commonwealth represents a particular, if aging, type of might — it still represents about a third of the world’s population. Set up in the mid-20th century as Britain allowed for the self-governance of many of its territories, the Commonwealth of Nations have no legal obligations to one another, but instead aim to further shared values like democracy and freedom of speech.AdvertisementBut, in a post-Brexit landscape, and with many countries shrinking further into isolationism, questions have been raised not only of the Games’ relevance, but the relevance of the Commonwealth itself.Advertisement“The Commonwealth matters to me,” said Jacqui Gooding, a New Zealander who was visiting Surfers Paradise on vacation. “The queen is our leader — I don’t want a president.”Mrs. Gooding’s husband, John, dismissed the idea that the Games would be absent of sporting and political relevance.“It’s about bringing all the nations of the Commonwealth together,” he said. “It shows the power of sport in diplomacy, and the importance of the Commonwealth.“And look at what happened with North Korea,” he added, referring to the meeting tentatively arranged between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, which has been largely credited to the afterglow of the Pyeongchang Olympics.Organizers on the Gold Coast said they expected the Games to reach a global audience of 1.5 billion. For context, the 2014 World Cup had about 3.2 billion global viewers and the Rio Olympics had about 3.6 billion.The mood of locals varied from enthusiasm to curiosity to, occasionally, eye-rolling frustration at construction and traffic delays.Nick Atkins, who runs a co-working space on the Gold Coast, has been an advocate for attracting and retaining talent in the region. He said he was more excited about the government’s spending on infrastructure than the events themselves.Advertisement“For me, personally, I don’t know who the Commonwealth’s best javelin thrower is, or table tennis player or swimmer,” he said. “But there’s an undeniable positivity on the Gold Coast for it.”Mr. Atkins added that he felt little emotional connection to the Commonwealth itself.“In an identity sense, I would like to become a republic — I don’t see the need for us to be part of the Commonwealth, really, anymore,” he said.Peter Beattie, a former premier of the state of Queensland, and the chairman of the Gold Coast Games, said that he empathized with those who had reservations about the event.“I understand that there’s always a bit of cynicism: is this the remnants of the Empire? Look, it came from the Empire Games, but its relevance and relationship with the Empire Games is very tenuous,” he said.Mr. Beattie believed that Brexit and its fallout had given the Commonwealth, and its Games, a unique opening to capitalize upon.“Brexit, actually, in a converse way, has made the Commonwealth more relevant, not less,” he said. “Britain’s now looking at free trade agreements. Part of what’s happening here is a meeting of all the trade ministers.”Of course, it is difficult to ignore that the Games are, in a way, a sort of Olympics-lite: an athletic coming together of many nations, to be sure, but with the notable absence of medal-winning mainstays like China, the United States and Russia.But organizers, including Mr. Beattie, were quick to paint the Games as more nimble and progressive than the Olympics, and several times implied that the latter could do with some evolution.Advertisement“The Olympics are just a hard, competitive sporting event — and that’s terrific,” he said. “The Commonwealth is more than that.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This year’s Games, for the first time, will feature an equal gender split of events. Women will compete for the same number of medals as men, a feat that organizers said had not been replicated by any other major multisport international event — including the Olympics.Mr. Beattie said that the Games would send a message about the advancement of women that he hoped the Olympics would emulate.Others said the Games presented athletes with a rare chance at higher competition like the Olympics and World Championships — and some athletes with perhaps the peak competition of their careers.“I just snuck into the Commonwealth Games. It was the first major team that I made, representing Australia — they have more relaxed standards,” said Steve Moneghetti, a retired Australian runner who eventually competed in four Olympic marathons. “It’s a good steppingstone, and certainly for some athletes it will be the only multisport competition that they go to.”It is easy to see why for certain nations these Games may be just as watchable as the Olympics — there’s a far greater chance of seeing a fellow countryman win.“Australians, we’re quite competitive. We’ve either topped or been second in the medal tally for most Games in history. The Australian public really embrace them,” Mr. Moneghetti said. “I know this sounds quite naïve, but Australians kind of go, Commonwealth Games, Olympic Games, if you won a medal, that’s great.”Medal count aside, host cities have faced increasing pressure in recent Games to ensure that the economic impact of the event proves both positive and sustainable.Last year the South African city of Durban was stripped of the right to host the Games in 2022, following a series of missed deadlines and financial shortcomings. The African continent has never hosted the Games.AdvertisementBefore that, India’s 2010 Games were marred by accusations of substantial overspend and corruption.The 2014 Games in Glasgow proved something of a litmus test for the economic and cultural credibility of the event.There, a large chunk of responsibility fell to an American, David Grevemberg, who had previously been part of a team that secured an agreement that would require Olympic cities to also host the Paralympics.“Post India, we had a brand that’s relevance was being questioned,” said Mr. Grevemberg, who today is the chief executive of the Commonwealth Games Federation.Under Mr. Grevemberg’s leadership, Glasgow 2014 accomplished an elusive feat: finishing under budget.Mr. Beattie said that much of the 2018 Games’ $1.1 billion budget had gone toward infrastructure that would continue to be used after the event ends. He added that most of the money had been publicly funded, though these Games had attracted more sponsors than any before it.Regardless of how well this year’s Games perform, many involved with the event conceded that it must continue to shrug off predictions of its demise.Mr. Grevemberg has seen success and failure in large sporting events, including at the now-defunct Goodwill Games, where he worked with some American athletes.Advertisement“The Goodwill Games were largely spun off of Cold War tensions — I’m not sure that its narrative matured beyond that,” he said.Mr. Grevemberg emphasized the power of nonsporting stories the Games have seen, from apartheid-era boycotts, to the Australian runner Cathy Freeman’s decision to drape herself in an Aboriginal, not an Australian, flag as she celebrated a gold medal win.And, with regard to the five-ringed shadow of the Olympic Games, and any perceived inferiority complex, Mr. Grevemberg playfully brushed cynicism aside.“You are what you believe you are,” he said.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KATHERINE SCHULTENAPRIL 2, 2018
Welcome to the new season — even if it looks more like this outside your window right now than this.We’ll be taking a semi-break from April 2-6 this year. Much of our content for students, including our daily writing prompts, our Article of the Day and our Word of the Day, will publish as usual, but other features, like What’s Going On in This Picture, Film Club, the Weekly News Quiz, Country of the Week and our lesson plans, will return the week of April 9.But to make sure you’ll have plenty of things to do, we have a few suggestions below for teaching and learning about the pleasures of the season.What do you like best about spring? Tell us here._________Revel in Holi, a Hindu festival of spring, in the area where it is believed the festival originated.Below is a list of just a few of the articles, photo slide shows and videos about spring rituals that have been published over the last few years on NYTimes.com. You can find many more articles by consulting the Times Topics pages on Easter and Holy Week and Passover.AdvertisementWhat, if anything, do these traditions have in common? What spring rituals and traditions are important to you?AdvertisementAfter you have read one or more of these pieces, you might write your own about how spring traditions, holidays and rituals are observed in your neighborhood, town or community.Spring around the world:Italy: Pope Francis Delivers Plea for Peace in Easter Sunday MassHungary: A Magical Festival to Scare Off WinterChina: A Spring Nuisance That Snows White FluffJapan: A Country in BloomAustralia: The Sting of SpringChina and the Philippines: Easter in Asia Marked by Baptisms and CrucifixionsIndia: Happy HoliBelgium: The Wrong Day to Be a CatEgypt: A Pungent Ritual Divides NosesFrance: Solving the Passover PuzzleIsrael: Iraqi Jews Reflect on Baghdad Heritage on PassoverSeville, Spain: Pillars of Holy Week Processions Put Teamwork and Brawn on DisplaySpring in the United States:Spring break for students across the United States: Milestones in the History of a RiteWho Made Spring Break?Spring Break Gets Tamer as World Watches OnlineIt’s Hard to Be Hungry on Spring BreakAdvertisementOther spring rituals and traditions:New York City: Only in New York: Easter Parade With Moai Heads and a KrakenThe Witty and Weird of Passover Products (Matzo Print Attire, No Less)Indianapolis: Christians and Jews Rediscover Interracial HavenDenver: Branding Day, Fading Elsewhere, Still a Ritual on Colorado RanchTexas: Bluebonnet Season Came Early This Spring_________We’ve recently announced our Ninth Annual New York Times Found Poem Student Contest, open to anyone 13 to 19 years old from anywhere in the world.It’s easy: All they need to do is “find” a poem in a Times article — any Times article on any subject, published at any point in our 167-year history. All the rules and guidelines, as well as links to past winners, are here. Deadline: May 4 at 7 a.m. Eastern.And if the contest isn’t enough, we have 21 other suggestions for celebrating National Poetry Month this April._________Has spring come to the place where you live? What signs are you seeing?Five photographs set out to document what the arrival of the season looked like in New York City this year. See what they found in It’s Spring! (No, It Isn’t.) Yes, It Is!, then create your own photo essay about your neighborhood.Or, do something similar to what Marielle Anzelone did in her 2012 Spring Time series for the Metro section, in which she photographed and offered weekly dispatches from a bit of Staten Island woodland as it changed with the season. Here is what she wrote on March 20, 2012:The frame of the photograph above will not change between now and the summer solstice on June 20. But everything within it will.We will watch leaves burst from their buds, wildflowers come into bloom, butterflies emerge from hibernation, and birds build nests and fledge their young. Our window into the woodland world will reveal shift and change, growth and decay as it seemingly comes to life.… I hope this series will inspire you to seek out nature in New York City and observe spring in the native places where you live.Where can you find a patch of nature to observe? How might you document the season as it unfolds?If you would like to observe animal behavior this season, you might read “Waking From Hibernation, the Hard Work of Spring Begins” to learn about bears, bats, bees and squirrels, or “On Long Migrations, Birds Chase an Eternal Spring” to understand why “bird migrations have stumped the greatest minds for thousands of years.”But many also find a “dark warning” in how climate change is affecting our seasons. One Times Op-Ed writer summed it up on March 11:On Presidents’ Day, the high in Nashville was 76 degrees; the next day it hit 80. This, we all assured one another, was nothing more than our annual false spring, an idyll of sunny skies and temperate breezes that briefly gives us all heart before winter crashes back and turns the saucer magnolia’s pink blossoms into a brown smudge against the cold blue sky.... But this, it turns out, was not a false spring. This was actual spring arriving very early.The symptoms of climate change are well known, and its risks to some of our favorite creatures — tigers, sea turtles, elephants, giant pandas, mountain gorillas, monarch butterflies — are equally clear, though it’s easy to forget that in the comings and goings of our own daily lives. In December a National Geographic video of a starving polar bear went viral as people faced at a gut level the undeniable consequences of a phenomenon that can sometimes seem mainly theoretical.A storm system that moved through the country last week temporarily brought colder temperatures to Nashville and a blizzard across the Northeast, but that won’t change anything. There will be consequences to this absurdly early spring.What are these “consequences,” and what can we do about them? Ahead of Earth Day on April 22, check out some of the campaigns around environmental and climate literacy the Earth Day Network has created, or visit the Times Topics page on climate change, or our own Learning Network resources for teaching and learning about the topic, including this lesson plan for young citizen scientists.Advertisement_________If the arrival of warmer weather has you thinking about hitting and pitching data, new trends in color and patterns, short-seasoned vegetables, or sun and sand, The Times has you covered.Scroll through the Sports, Style, Food and Travel sections to find “news you can use” about the spring topics that interest you most.If each student in a class found one recent spring-themed article to bring in, you could then host a seasonally inspired student-run current events discussion or gallery walk. If you do, please post a comment here, or send us an email or photos telling us about it to LNFeedback@nytimes.com._________How are the joys — or, perhaps, the woes — of spring included in your curriculum? Let us know.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHARLES McDERMIDAPRIL 1, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Pope Francis calls for peace, Kim Jong-un takes in some K-pop, and Tesla faces more trouble. Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a “dangerous” flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s hard-line stance on immigration._____• In Afghanistan, the Taliban are increasingly attacking security forces using night-vision goggles and lasers that U.S. military officials said were either stolen from Afghan and international troops or bought on the black market.And a retired U.S. lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005 said advanced equipment, like drones and precision weapons, is being seized by extremist groups in other global conflict zones.Advertisement“It’s going to change how we operate,” he said._____• “For every 10 killed, 20 more will join.”AdvertisementThat was a protester in the Kashmir Valley on Sunday, after the Indian Army killed at least 12 militants. It was the largest one-day toll of insurgents in recent years, in a brutal territorial conflict between India and Pakistan that has endured for decades.At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were reported wounded._____• Tesla appears to be in real trouble.Concerns that Elon Musk’s electric-car company is burning through cash have damaged its credit rating and raised questions about whether it could run out of money by the end of the year.And its stock fell in after-hours trading last week, after Tesla disclosed that a fatal crash in California on March 23 occurred while Autopilot, its semiautonomous driving system, above, was engaged._____• Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the “carnage” in “the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria” and urged “reconciliation” in the Middle East. The pope also pressed for “the fruits of dialogue” to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula, above, where 10,000 Christians gathered in Seoul to pray.At St. Andrew’s Cathedral in Sydney, Australia, the Anglican archbishop Glenn Davies said the redemption of Easter gave hope of forgiveness to all who faced moral failure — including the disgraced Australia cricket team.• Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazon’s Alexa Super Bowl ad.)Advertisement• Eight years after Live Nation merged with Ticketmaster, bringing together the world’s largest concert promoter with the world’s leading ticket provider, U.S. regulators are looking into accusations that the company uses threats and pressure to rule ticketing.• “Ready Player One,” Steven Spielberg’s nostalgia-soaked science-fiction adventure, took in more than $181 million on its debut weekend. Chinese ticket buyers turned out in particular force.• Facebook’s latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending  growth at any cost — even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.)• The list of Chinese products that will be hit with new U.S. tariffs is expected to be announced within days. Here are other headlines to watch for this week.• Markets are closed in Australia, Hong Kong, London and Milan. Here’s a snapshot of other global markets.• North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and South Korea’s culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, were in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times]• “Like a Dream.” The Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai made an emotional return home to Pakistan’s Swat Valley, where the Taliban tried to kill her in 2012. [The New York Times]• The U.N. announced new measures against North Korea, blacklisting 27 ships, 21 shipping companies and one individual accused of helping the North evade sanctions. [The New York Times]Advertisement• Israel warned that it would target groups inside Gaza if violence along the border continued. On Friday, at least 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire. [The New York Times]• A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old Filipina maid, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Agence France-Presse]• The Chinese space lab Tiangong-1 is expected to burn into Earth’s atmosphere within hours. Here’s a look at the rise and fall of China’s first space station. [The New York Times]• April Fools’ Day on the internet: Australia’s public broadcaster navigated some of this year’s biggest joke headlines, including “drop bears” and chocolate burgers. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Working out is great for you. Here’s how to start.• For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes.• Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo.• Why would a 70 year old kayak across the Atlantic Ocean (for the third time)? “To feel alive,” said the man who did it.• A landmark ruling in Israel allows babies to be conceived from frozen embryos or sperm of people who have died. But is it ethical?Advertisement• And “The Last Wild Men of Borneo” by Carl Hoffman tells the stories of an environmental activist accepted by an indigenous tribe as one of its own, and a man who became one of the world’s most successful tribal art collectors.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates to 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature activity, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.“The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan,” The Times noted last year.Guests receive a souvenir wooden egg as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and they’re also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. AdvertisementBrowse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHARLES McDERMIDAPRIL 3, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A celebrity jeweler on the run, the Vatican’s deal with China crumbles and Apple scores a coup in the fight for A.I. Here’s what you need to know: • At least four people were injured, one of them critically, in a shooting at YouTube’s headquarters in San Bruno, Calif.The shooter, who the police said was a woman, died from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound. Check back for the latest on this developing story.Google, which owns YouTube, said on Twitter that it was “coordinating with authorities” and would provide more information when it was available._____• “Until we can have a wall and proper security, we’re going to be guarding our border with the military.”AdvertisementPresident Trump made the pledge on his third day of railing about America’s “weak” border laws, stirred by Fox News’s alarmist coverage of a caravan of migrants slowly heading north through Mexico.AdvertisementOur reporters note: The U.S. military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions like apprehending people at the border.The Trump administration also published a list of more than 1,000 Chinese products that will soon face a 25 percent import tax, including electronic touch screens, iron and steel plates, medical devices, aircraft parts and batteries.The move is likely to inflame a trade war that has already drawn fierce opposition from some of America’s biggest companies. An unexpected pawn: California’s wine._____• Another quote worth noting: “I think there is no religion in human society that is above the state.”That was a senior Beijing official, underscoring China’s intention to maintain strict control over all religious organizations and their believers — and dimming the prospects of what appeared to be an imminent deal with the Vatican.And our Magazine looks at President Xi Jinping’s consolidation of power by considering Hong Kong’s missing booksellers._____ • In India, less than a day after announcing penalties for journalists who write or broadcast “fake news,” the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi withdrew them.AdvertisementThe government gave no official explanation, but some in the country had seen the rules as an attack on the press ahead of campaigning for national elections.The country may be more captivated — or enraged — by the tale of Nirav Modi, India’s jeweler to the stars. He’s now on the run, accused of amassing a global empire with nearly $3 billion obtained illegally from government-run banks._____• The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King was assassinated 50 years ago.Today, we remember him and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.The Times obituary celebrated him as a prophet in the crusade for racial equality and a voice for millions of African Americans.“He was their voice of anguish,” it reads, “their eloquence in humiliation, their battle cry for human dignity.”• Tesla says it is “rapidly addressing” bottlenecks in the production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week — a nice jump from last year but still short of investors’ hopes. Tesla’s shares, which have been battered recently, rose on the news.• Apple hired Google’s chief of artificial intelligence, John Giannandrea, 53, a major coup in the race for A.I. skills and tech.• Welcome to the Big Board: Spotify shares began trading at $165.90, initially giving the Swedish company a valuation of more than $33 billion. (There was some botched hospitality: The New York Stock Exchange flew the Swiss flag.)Advertisement• The Walt Disney Company offered to buy Sky News — an effort to help Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox buy full control of Sky News’s parent company, the broadcaster Sky.• U.S. stocks were up across the board. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Indonesia declared a state of emergency over a seven-square-mile oil spill off the coast of Borneo whose source had not yet been identified. At least four fishermen were killed over the weekend when the fuel ignited, and hundreds of people reported health issues. [BBC]• The Thai police found 9.4 million speed pills and 788 kilograms (more than 1,700 pounds) of crystal meth hidden in tea packets in a truck. Street value: more than $54 million. [Bangkok Post]• A pair of Belarusian sex instructors who say they have evidence that Russia interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential race face imminent deportation from Thailand to Russia or Belarus. [The New York Times]• The cherished sword of a samurai who in the late 19th century established a prominent winery in California was found in the ruins of a building destroyed in last year’s wildfires. [The Asahi Shimbun]• Foodies in Southeast Asia have laid into a British cooking show’s judges for insisting that a Malaysian contestant’s chicken rendang curry should have been crispy. [A.P.]• A story sweeping China: A taxi driver from Chengdu and his wife will be reunited with their missing daughter after searching for her for 24 years. [South China Morning Post]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Save your relationship — outsource the chores (if you can).Advertisement• Make a luxury trip to Paris affordable with these tips.• Recipe of the day:  Swedish meatballs, mashed potatoes and a little lingonberry jam.• Special rules in American football: A Times reporter found stringent rules in place for N.F.L. cheerleaders, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons — even as the sport grapples with accusations of domestic violence and sexual harassment.• From our At War blog: Alissa J. Rubin, our former Baghdad bureau chief, made a return trip to northern Iraq — and found herself navigating checkpoints as endless as the rival armed fighters manning them.• Anna Chennault, a Chinese-born anti-Communist Washington lobbyist, died last week. She dabbled in foreign intrigue after the death of her husband, the renowned leader of World War II’s Flying Tigers.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: Niobe.The Greek mythological character Niobe was the subject of a tough clue from last Wednesday’s crossword puzzle: “ ‘Like ___, all tears’: Hamlet.” The word has appeared in Times crosswords 139 times.Niobe is most closely associated with tears, as noted in William Shakespeare’s “Hamlet”:“A little month, or ere those shoes were oldWith which she followed my poor father’s body,Like Niobe, all tears. Why she, even she —O God, a beast that wants discourse of reasonWould have mourned longer! — married with my uncle …”It was arrogance that was Niobe’s undoing, and the cause of her tears.The story of Niobe’s tears began at a ceremony held to honor the Titan Leto, mother of the twin gods Apollo and Artemis. In a fit of arrogance, Niobe bragged that she was superior to Leto because she had more children (either 12 or 14, depending on the version of the myth).When the twins heard this, they came to Earth and killed all of Niobe’s children. In deep anguish, she ran to Mount Sipylus to beg the gods to put an end to her pain. Zeus felt sorry for her and turned her into a rock, so she would not feel anymore.AdvertisementHowever, even as a rock, Niobe’s tears continued to flow, and the stream that pours from the real Weeping Rock in Manisa, Turkey, symbolizes a mother’s eternal mourning.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By YONETTE JOSEPHMARCH 30, 2018
For Christians around the world, Easter is a revered religious holiday: a deep mediation on the Crucifixion and Resurrection of Christ.From South Africa to India to Israel to Indonesia, the faithful held solemn ceremonies and processions, re-enacted Christ’s suffering on the cross and prayed for loved ones.The Holy Week leading up to Easter Sunday — also called Pascha and Resurrection Sunday — took various forms.Ahead of Easter celebrations, a church in Colombia donated 250,000 wafers to Venezuela’s Catholic Church, which has struggled to buy its own because a shortage of flour, according to news reports.Advertisement“It is important to attend to the needs that afflict the faith as a result of this time of border crisis,” according to a statement from the diocese, in the city of Cúcuta. “At this time of the week, the central mysteries of the Christian faith can be celebrated.”AdvertisementThe BBC said the wafers were handed over on a bridge between the two countries.Good Friday celebrations in the parish of Saiqi, China, went on with a conspicuous absence: the worshipers’ bishop had been whisked away by the government a day earlier.Bishop Guo Xijin, 59, of the Mindong diocese in central-eastern China, has been at the center of a tug of war between the Holy See and the Chinese authorities over who can appoint bishops in China and how to unite the country’s Catholics. He was detained on Monday after refusing to celebrate the Easter Mass with a government-approved bishop. But he was allowed to return home on Wednesday.At a pre-dawn Mass on Thursday, the bishop urged congregants at the Saiqi church to be brave and keep the faith. “Full of comfort and hope, we are inspired to more bravely face struggles and offer our love to God,” he told them.Not long after, government agents took him away for what they described as a “vacation” — a euphemism in China for an enforced disappearance, according to The Associated Press.On Holy Thursday, Pope Francis washed the feet of prisoners at an all-male prison in Rome, Regina Coeli — including two Muslims, an Orthodox Christian and a Buddhist. “Everyone always has the opportunity to change life and one cannot judge,” Francis told the prisoners.It was the fourth time in his five-year papacy that Francis has celebrated Mass in an Italian jail. But it took place alongside an eye-popping controversy, after the Rome newspaper La Repubblica quoted the pope as saying “A hell does not exist.”Eugenio Scalfari, 93, one of the newspaper’s founders, said Francis had told him that bad souls are “not punished,” and that the souls of repentant sinners “obtain God’s forgiveness and take their place among the ranks of those who contemplate him, but those who do not repent and cannot be forgiven disappear,” according to one translation.AdvertisementThe reported remarks were seized upon by the pope’s conservative critics, and the Vatican scrambled to tamp down the brewing controversy, issuing a statement that said the conversation had been private and that the article should not be “considered a faithful transcription of the Holy Father’s words.”Mr. Scalfari is known for not taking notes and for reconstructing lengthy conversations with prominent figures from memory. An outspoken atheist, he has been granted several interviews by Francis, many of them followed by Vatican objections.The Paixão do Cristo (Passion of Christ) is a theatrical production in Pernambuco, Brazil, that is based on the life of Christ and is considered to be the largest open-air theater in the world.The play runs for one week during Easter and is watched by about 6,000 to 10,000 people each night.At a traditional Easter church service at St. George’s Chapel in Windsor, England, Queen Elizabeth II gave out purses containing commemorative coins to mark Maundy Thursday, when almsgiving and washing of feet traditionally start the celebrations for Easter.In a televised message on Good Friday, Prince Charles spoke of the persecution of Christians around the world and said he had been “deeply moved” by those who had the courage to forgive their tormentors.In Durban, South Africa, priests and nuns silently marched through the streets with wooden crosses on their shoulders on Good Friday, and throngs placed flowers on a wooden cross.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In Nairobi, Kenya, many Christians spent Good Friday fasting or in prayer, repentance and meditation on the agony and suffering of Christ.In Ethiopia, Easter is generally celebrated after 55 days of fasting, with followers of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church offering daily prayers at the church and tending not to eat until 3 p.m., except on Saturday and Sunday, when prayers are conducted early in the morning.Villages and towns in Spain celebrated Semana Santa, or Holy Week, in their own way. In Verges, a village in Catalonia near the Costa Brava, the faithful wore skull masks and skeleton outfits while carrying scythes, ashes and clocks to perform an ancient “dance of death” to the beat of drums.AdvertisementThe tradition is said to symbolize the final judgment after death to decide if a soul goes to heaven, to purgatory to hell.Others took part in flamboyant parades or extravagant penitents’ processions, carrying crosses on their backs to commemorate Jesus’ suffering.Roman Catholic devotees wearing crowns of twigs, including a woman, were nailed to wooden crosses by Filipinos dressed as Roman centurions in a Good Friday re-enactment of Jesus Christ’s sufferings.The ritual in the village of San Pedro Cutud merged church traditions with folk practices in which penitents attempt to atone for sins, pray for the sick or a better life, or give thanks for what they believe were miracles.The spectacle was watched by thousands of spectators but frowned upon by church leaders in the Philippines, Asia’s largest Roman Catholic nation. Archbishop Socrates Villegas said in a statement: “Instead of spilling your blood on the streets, why not walk into a Red Cross office and donate blood? Choose to share life. Share your blood.”In Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim nation, an estimated 6,000 Catholic pilgrims visited Larantuka — in the far east of the archipelago — for ceremonies around Holy Week.The festival there is centered on the legend of three religious statues that reportedly washed up on the shores in the 1500s.Locals pray for deceased relatives, there are religious processions by boat and on the streets, and worshipers crawl from the entrance of a church toward an altar where they pay homage to a shrine of religious relics, among other ceremonies.AdvertisementIn Ireland, the holiday this year marked the advent of a new law.For almost a century, selling alcohol in Ireland on Good Friday had been banned — a legacy of the country’s deeply rooted Christian traditions. But after the Parliament passed new legislation in January, pubs in Ireland lifted the ban on alcohol for Good Friday.The move is seen as a boon for tourists and for businesses. It could generate as much as 40 million euros ($49 million) in sales.“The Good Friday ban is from a different era,” Padraig Cribben, chief executive of the Vintners’ Federation of Ireland, told the BBC. “Like all other businesses who were never subject to a ban, publicans now have a choice to open.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DANNY HAKIMMARCH 30, 2018
Gibson, what happened?There’s been talk of bankruptcy swirling around Gibson, the venerated Nashville-based guitar company, which takes in more than $1.2 billion in annual revenue but is more than $500 million in debt. Buzzards are circling. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the private equity giant, is a bondholder. Blackstone is also a major lender.Gibson’s problems are not hard to diagnose. The company’s longtime chief executive, Henry Juszkiewicz, wanted to diversify by turning Gibson into what he has called a “music lifestyle company” — basically a consumer electronics business that sells headphones and hi-fis as well as guitars. He made a splashy purchase of the audio and home entertainment division of Netherlands-based Royal Philips in 2014, and then ran headlong into the collapse of the euro.It was a disaster. Mr. Juszkiewicz, in an interview, didn’t sugarcoat it.“No, it wasn’t a great decision,” he said. “It didn’t work out very well. I think it was a rational decision, but it turned out to be a very poor decision, and it’s a decision I made. It is what it is.”Before we go further, we need to step back and take stock. Much is at stake.Chuck Berry’s “Maybellene,” which is now in the Smithsonian, is a Gibson. Tony Iommi of Black Sabbath wields a Gibson SG. Slash, of Guns N’ Roses? The company calls him its Global Brand Ambassador.AdvertisementYou once got the feeling that Carlos Santana could take an entire smoke break while he held a single note on one of his Gibsons, in the days before he switched to Paul Reed Smith guitars. Jimmy Page bought a Gibson off Joe Walsh and called his Les Paul “my mistress and my wife.” His double-necked Gibsons looked so heavy they might topple his spindly frame. Hendrix was really more of an upside down Stratocaster guy, but he had a Gibson Flying V, one of the most distinctive guitars ever made. So, of course, did Eddie Van Halen.AdvertisementAnd then there is Nigel Tufnel.No veneration of Gibson was greater than the scene in the movie “Spinal Tap” in which Nigel, played by Christopher Guest, took the filmmaker Marty DiBergi, played by Rob Reiner, around his voluminous guitar collection.Nigel, wearing a skintight T-shirt with a life-size drawing of a rib cage, starts the tour by lifting up a 1959 sunburst Gibson Les Paul Standard.“This is the top of the heap right here, there’s no question about it,” Nigel says, deadly earnest. He points to the body of the guitar. “Look at the flame on that one. It’s quite unbelievable. This one is just” — he shakes his head — “it’s perfect. Nineteen fifty-nine.”Then he tilts the guitar toward the fictional documentarian. “Listen,” he says, reverently.Marty begins to ask him how much it costs, but is immediately cut off.“Just listen for a minute.”Marty: “I’m not …”Nigel: “The sustain. Listen to it.”Marty: “I’m not hearing anything.”Nigel pauses, looks at the guitar and then back at Marty, and says, “You would, though, if it were playing.”I could keep going with “Spinal Tap” dialogue, and I actually tried to before my editor wisely intervened. But I think I’ve made my point. Gibson is more than just a company, it’s a public trust.AdvertisementMr. Juszkiewicz was part of an investor group that bought the company in 1986, the last time it was on the verge of bankruptcy. He was a turnaround guy who had been an engineer at General Motors and played guitar in a band at Harvard Business School. (“It was mostly rock ’n’ roll, we did a lot of parties. Think ‘Animal House.’”)He righted the ship, but in recent years has had a series of struggles. The Justice Department raided the Gibson factories and offices in 2011, accusing it of importing banned woods from India and Madagascar. Mr. Juszkiewicz railed against government overreach, became a right-wing darling and got invited to Congress for a speech by President Barack Obama, in an act of defiance. The next year, Gibson agreed to pay a penalty of $300,000 and $50,000 more to promote conservation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Juszkiewicz also wanted to make Gibson guitars more techno-whizzy, so they could even tune themselves. Purists were horrified. Neal Schon of Journey once referred to it as “all this electronical, robot crap.”Mr. Juszkiewicz called it “great technology” and said he believed all guitars will eventually have it. But auto-tuning has been scaled back after, he said, “the trolls took over the dialogue.”“My regret is we probably pushed a little too fast,” he added.Still, Mr. Juszkiewicz sticks to his broader vision for Gibson, which includes lower-priced brands like Epiphone and Kramer. Nike has been his model. He said he realized that, “like Nike, you couldn’t just sell to track guys, you had to sell to regular consumers.”Certainly, one can make an argument to diversify. Guitar sales are still below the peak they reached in the years before the financial crisis, though they have been recovering, according to data from The Music Trades, a magazine.Even Mr. Juszkiewicz worries about the future. “Kids today have so many more choices,” he said. And there are no guitar heroes anymore. Justin Bieber strumming an acoustic doesn’t cut it.Whether a company should diversify or stick to what it’s good at is an eternal business dilemma. But ultimately it’s about execution, and he made a losing bet.Mr. Juszkiewicz acknowledged that his hold on the company is at risk.“It is accurate to say bankruptcy is a possibility in the sense that our bonds expire,” he said, although he was hopeful about ongoing discussions to refinance.AdvertisementAt the same time, he said, some of the bondholders are not concerned about getting paid. “They are more interested in owning the company,” he said. “That’s an ownership play.” He did not elaborate further on that point.Gibson’s future will be much clearer by Aug. 1, when much of its debt comes due.In a statement, K.K.R. said it was “in constructive dialogue with the management,” and called Gibson “a terrific company with dedicated customers, employees and suppliers.”Blackstone did not comment.For its fans, Gibson has a powerful legacy.When I was a kid, I worked at a sub shop on the Virginia Beach boardwalk so I could earn enough cash to buy a Les Paul off a sailor looking to unload it. I brought along my older brother, who once built his own acoustic guitar and assembled sound effects for electric guitars from kits. He’s a man of few words, so I tend to monitor his eyebrow movements like one might watch a seismograph. When the Gibson’s case was opened, his forehead would have registered on the Richter scale. We closed the case and closed the deal. I didn’t have an ear or a sense of rhythm, but it was nothing that distortion and wah wah pedals couldn’t fix.Whatever happens, Mr. Juszkiewicz is 65 and his future with Gibson is winding down. For his long-term vision to succeed, he said, he will eventually “have to pass the baton to someone who also has that dream.”He added, “Part of this is evaluating financing options, and I have to look at what is best for the company, all of the stakeholders and myself.”Send tips, leaks and suggestions to hakim@nytimes.com or tweet @dannyhakim. Guitar tablature also accepted. (No Yngwie please.) A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BU3 of the New York edition with the headline: While Their Guitars Gently Weep.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHARLES McDERMID and INYOUNG KANGMARCH 29, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The Koreas set a meeting date, a homecoming in Pakistan and lives adrift on Cambodia’s waterways. Here’s what you need to know: • Russia hits back.The Kremlin announced that it would expel 150 Western diplomats and close the American consulate in St. Petersburg, as tit-for-tat retaliation continues over a nerve-agent attack on British soil that London and its allies have blamed on Moscow.Britain said it would review the cases of 700 wealthy Russians who were granted visas largely because they could invest millions of dollars. It also signaled an openness to blocking the Russian government from British financial markets.The moves came on a day of good news in the poisoning attack. Yulia Skripal, above, who was attacked with her father, Sergei Skripal, “is no longer in a critical condition.”_____• It’s a date.North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea agreed to meet for the first time on April 27.AdvertisementThey’ll get together at the truce village of Panmunjom at Peace House, meaning that Mr. Kim would become the first leader from the North to set foot in the South since the Korean War.AdvertisementMr. Kim has signaled that he would meet with President Trump, though no date has been set._____• “I never wanted to leave my country.”Malala Yousafzai, the world’s youngest Nobel laureate, returned to Pakistan for the first time since she was gravely wounded there by a Taliban attack in 2012.Ms. Yousafzai, now studying at Oxford, is expected to stay mostly in Islamabad, the capital, during her four-day visit. She met Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi on Thursday.“I am just 20 years old, but I have seen a lot in life,” said Ms. Yousafzai, speaking in a choked voice about how she watched the Swat region slide into extremism and terrorism._____• “My only remorse is not being able to do more than dedicating my life to my country.”Our Overlooked series remembers the life of Yu Gwan-sun, a Korean independence activist who organized peaceful protests against Japan’s colonial rule.“Even if my fingernails are torn out, my nose and ears are ripped apart, and my legs and arms are crushed,” she wrote in prison, “this physical pain does not compare to the pain of losing my nation.”Ms. Yu was tortured to death at 17 but is remembered as the face of Korea’s 35-year fight for independence.Advertisement_____• In Cambodia, hundreds of floating villages, comprising tens of thousands of families, thrive on the Tonle Sap River and the lake of the same name.Some of the villages, a reporter for the Times wrote, “are labyrinthine extensions of shore towns, with broad Venetian canals and twisting alleyways, floating temples, churches, schoolrooms and oil-black ice factories.”The villages are home almost exclusively to ethnic Vietnamese, a minority whose status in Cambodian society is also perpetually adrift.• The Facebook scandal was a reminder: You’ve entrusted your digital life to a surveillance machine. Can social media be saved? Our columnist offers some solutions.• An astonishing $100 billion: That’s how much Facebook has lost in market capitalization since Feb. 2. The plunge has investors wary of other social media and internet stocks.• Detailed negotiations no more. President Trump wants to remake global trade in a matter of months. Here’s how he’s trying to do it.• The U.S. plans to invoke an emergency law to limit Chinese investment in sensitive technological sectors, ranging from microchips to 5G wireless.• Weeks after it was seized by the Chinese government, Anbang Insurance is still offering “you snooze, you lose” investments that sound conservative — they are anything but.Advertisement• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Indian officials were ordered to stay away from next weekend’s “Thank You India” events hosted by the Dalai Lama, ahead of tense meetings with Beijing. [The New York Times]• Amal Clooney, the prominent human rights lawyer, joined the legal team representing two Reuters reporters jailed in Myanmar. [Reuters]• Ecuador again cut off internet access for Julian Assange, who lives in its embassy in London, amid concerns that he’s harming the country’s international relationships. [The New York Times]• “I know I’ll regret this for the rest of my life.” Steve Smith, the disgraced former captain of the Australia cricket team, broke down in tears as he apologized on live television for a cheating scandal that has shocked the sport. [The New York Times]• In Venezuela, at least 68 people died after a fire broke out during a riot at a jail in the northern city of Valencia. [The New York Times]• “I’m really happy now.” Eiko Kadono, 83, the Japanese children’s author known for “Majo no Takkyubin” (“Kiki’s Delivery Service”), won the 2018 Hans Christian Andersen Award, considered the Nobel Prize of children’s literature. [The Asahi Shimbun]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette.• Use these tips to throw a healthy and relaxed dinner party.• Recipe of the day: End the week with a quick, delicious dinner of pan-roasted salmon with jalapeño.Advertisement• A farewell wave: Mick Fanning, a three-time world champion surfer and Australian hero who gained fame for punching a shark, is leaving the sport this week after his final competition. Above, Mr. Fanning in a smoke ritual on Wednesday.• License to thrill: With spies in the news, a new $50 million espionage museum has opened in New York. It’s “part museum, part ride,” our reporter writes.• Last week we told you about Ata, a tiny mummy once rumored to be an alien. Now, Chile wants to know how the skeleton was exhumed and smuggled abroad, and researchers have called the medical study unethical.U.S. college basketball’s signature tournament has reached its peak: The Final Four is on Saturday, setting up the championship game on Monday. Here’s our full coverage.The N.C.A.A. tournament, also known as the Big Dance, is among the most cherished rites of American sports. About 350 colleges and universities field a team in the top division, compared with 65 in football. At the end of the regular season, 68 teams move on to a knockout tournament.The first men’s tournament was held in 1939, and for more than a decade only eight teams were invited. The women’s tourney started in 1982. The moniker “March Madness” became part of pop vernacular in the mid-1980s, stemming from the David-versus-Goliath upsets that always shock players, coaches, fans and bookmakers.The odds of picking a perfect bracket are 1 in 9.2 quintillion. Even so, it’s almost a duty of U.S. citizenship to fill out a tournament bracket. (Last year, ESPN.com reported that some 70 million brackets were filled out and a total of $10.4 billion was wagered.)The men’s Final Four consists of Kansas, Michigan Villanova and Loyola-Chicago, a team that entered as a 300-to-1 underdog and wasn’t supposed to win its first game.AdvertisementIn the women’s tournament, Connecticut, Louisville, Mississippi State and Notre Dame are the last teams standing.Matt Futterman contributed reporting. _____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BRET STEPHENSMARCH 28, 2018
THE RETURN OF MARCO POLO’S WORLD War, Strategy, and American Interests in the Twenty-First Century By Robert D. Kaplan 280 pp. Random House. $28.The 1990s: Remember them? The decade began with the collapse of the Soviet Union. It ended with the Dow bursting past the 10,000 mark. In between, we got victory in the gulf, the creation of the European Union and the World Trade Organization, NATO enlargement, an American budget surplus, peace in Northern Ireland, Google, victory in the Balkans and (Charles Barkley aside) a world firmly united in wanting to be “like Mike.”Good times.Or so they seemed. In 1994, Robert D. Kaplan, a foreign correspondent who had cut his teeth covering the Balkans, the Iran-Iraq war and the famine in Ethiopia, wrote an influential essay in The Atlantic warning of “The Coming Anarchy.” If, as Francis Fukuyama thought, we had entered a “posthistorical” era of bourgeois comfort and democratic legitimacy, it was an era whose bounties relatively few shared. The rest, Kaplan wrote, “will be stuck in history, living in shantytowns where attempts to rise above poverty, cultural dysfunction and ethnic strife will be doomed by a lack of water to drink, soil to till and space to survive in.”History has not vindicated every aspect of Kaplan’s thesis — Pakistan and India, for instance, haven’t fallen apart, despite the essay’s suggestion that they might, and most measures of human welfare continue to show progress. But his general pessimism about the world that lay in wait in the 21st century now looks remarkably prescient, at least next to the Pollyannaish forecasts of techno-optimists, democracy promoters and globalization enthusiasts.AdvertisementThat’s reason to welcome “The Return of Marco Polo’s World,” an eclectic collection of elegant and humane essays, all but one of which previously appeared in The Atlantic and other publications over the past dozen or so years. Kaplan’s interests run wide: the ethnic tangles of Central Asia; the political thought of Samuel Huntington; the unsung heroism of Medal of Honor winners; the prospect of war on the Korean Peninsula. Above all there is his fascination with the decisive impact of geography on the calculations, ambitions and illusions of statesmen and societies.AdvertisementTake the Mediterranean. For half a millennium, it mostly separated not only two continents but also two civilizations: Christendom and Islam. Yet the collapse of political order throughout much of the Maghreb has reminded millions of Africans that the Middle Sea isn’t so wide after all. Thousands have drowned trying to cross it; many more have succeeded, with cumulative effects on what we used to think of as European society.“We are back to a much older cartography that recalls the High Middle Ages, in which ‘the East’ did not begin in any one particular place because regions overlapped and were more vaguely defined,” Kaplan writes. “The dichotomy of the Orient and the Occident is breaking down the world over, even as subtle gradations continue to persist.”What’s true in the Mediterranean basin is true in other places, too — and in other ways. Russia’s 2014 invasion of Ukraine (and the West’s de facto acquiescence in it) is the most visible evidence of the flimsiness of the post-Cold War’s national borders.But what about covert Russian influence peddling in places like Bulgaria; or overt influence peddling through the Russia Today “news” channel; or cyberoperations, via Twitter and Facebook, to disrupt and undermine Western elections?After the Cold War, many of us naïvely assumed that the communications revolution would be the vehicle through which the West would spread its values, attitudes and tastes to the rest of the world. We forgot that the revolution worked in the opposite direction as well: that for every Google executive fighting for political liberalization in Cairo, there might also be an alienated young Islamist in the West learning how to build a bomb by reading Inspire, Al Qaeda’s slick online magazine.Kaplan never loses sight of this fluidity: “The smaller the world actually becomes because of the advance of technology,” he writes, “the more permeable, complicated and overwhelming it seems, with its numberless, seemingly intractable crises that are all entwined.”That is the world’s reality — crooked, unexpected, ironic and often tragic — and it leads Kaplan to his capital-R Realist foreign-policy inclinations. It’s a subject he explores in chapter-length profiles of Henry Kissinger, Huntington and the University of Chicago’s John J. Mearsheimer (whose 2001 magnum opus, “The Tragedy of Great Power Politics,” was later overshadowed by his tendentious and bigoted screed, “The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy,” written with Stephen M. Walt).Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Kaplan makes clear that, at its best, Realism provides American statesmen with a middle path between what Kissinger once called “the disastrous oscillations between overcommitment and isolation.” This is what guided the Nixon administration as it sought to get out of Vietnam in a way that preserved America’s reputation as a reliable ally, while also securing a balance of power (through the opening with China) that would help see the United States through the Cold War.AdvertisementThat Kissinger was willing to do this in ways that scandalized moralistic American liberals is more than fine by Kaplan. “Ensuring a nation’s survival sometimes leaves tragically little room for private morality,” he argues. “The rare individuals who have recognized the necessity of violating such morality, acted accordingly and taken responsibility for their actions are among the most necessary leaders for their countries, even as they have caused great unease among generations of well-meaning intellectuals who, free of the burden of real-world bureaucratic responsibility, make choices in the abstract and treat morality as an inflexible absolute.”There is much truth in that observation: Foreign policy is not merely a subset of ethics. Yet Realism also has limits that its practitioners can fail to appreciate. If it offers a powerful caution against overdosing on the kind of idealism that led us into nation-building exercises in Vietnam and Iraq, it can also keep statesmen from grasping their opportunities. Many Realists were scandalized by Ronald Reagan’s belief that the Cold War could be won. He proved to be right, in part because he understood the moral dimensions of the struggle against Communism better than they did; and in part, too, because sometimes there really is a good case for optimism.Realists can also fail to grasp the power of ideology to shape the behavior of states, often in ways that deform or disregard their own interests. Iran, for instance, has no rational reason to threaten Israel, with which it shares ancient cultural bonds and current enemies. Yet Tehran threatens Israel as a matter of theological conviction, Realpolitik be damned. It is the very rationalism of much of what goes by the name Realism that undermines its claims to understand the world as it really is.Kaplan gets this: “A student of Shakespeare,” he writes, “would have grasped Vladimir Putin’s character long before an international relations wonk.” Geography may be the immutable fact of geopolitics, but geopolitics is still politics, and thus a human story.This makes one of Kaplan’s final chapters, on the dangers of a new utopianism, all the more chilling. We may think we’ve put Orwell’s “Big Brother” behind us, but the psychological conditions that gave rise to fascism and Communism are very much with us today. “The very idea that some sermon or blog or tweet has gone viral is a sad reflection on the state of individualism in the 21st century,” he says. “The electronic swarm is a negation of loneliness that prepares the way for the new ideologies of totalitarianism.”It’s a dark prophecy from an observer with a depressingly accurate record of predictions. When it comes to curbing our enthusiasms, Kaplan’s achievement is to throw so much shade with so much verve.Bret Stephens is a columnist for The Times.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.A version of this review appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page BR11 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Foreign Policy From the Dark Side.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.
Square Feet By                     
 C. J. HUGHES
 
MARCH 27, 2018
THOMPSON, N.Y. — Patti Greco Sunshine, 57, a longtime resident of this town near the Catskill Mountains in Sullivan County, has watched as the region’s once-mighty hospitality industry literally crumbled around her.The Pines resort, where Ms. Greco Sunshine, a professional singer, made her regional debut in 1970 at the age of 10, and which closed in the late 1990s, is now a rotting hulk.Similarly, the Breezy Corners Bungalow Colony, where Ms. Greco Sunshine went to camp as a child, was bulldozed a few years back. It was replaced by a casino hotel, Resorts World Catskills, which opened last month.But rather than bemoan the changes, Ms. Greco Sunshine has capitalized on them. In October, she relocated a business she owns, the Funky Hippy Chic Boutique, to a street by the new casino, betting that visitors might stop in for her colorful clothes.Advertisement“Some think the casino has arrived a little late because people have already sold their homes and gone on to do other things,” Ms. Greco Sunshine said. “But those of us who stayed are hoping the whole community benefits.”The casino is not the only tourism-focused project to stir hopes of renewal in the struggling county, a landscape of low hills about two hours from New York.AdvertisementDevelopers are working on or have completed a string of resort and hotel projects, including a gleaming new yoga retreat, a converted former furniture store and a renovated lakeside boardinghouse.It is contributing to a small but significant increase in the number of hotel rooms, according to the Sullivan County Visitors Association.After remaining flat for more than a decade, the number of rooms has jumped 25 percent in the past few years and now totals 2,100 across about 50 properties, the association said.But that seems like a sliver of what existed in the mid-20th century, the borscht belt era memorialized by the movie “Dirty Dancing.”Indeed, in the early 1950s, there were more than 500 hotels in the area, plus 2,500 bungalow colonies, including some in neighboring Ulster County, according to historical accounts.Hotel proponents have also pointed to the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts, the performance space that opened in 2006 on part of the site of the 1969 Woodstock festival. The center drew 265,000 guests in 2017, a spokeswoman said, and some of those music fans were presumably looking for places to spend the night.AdvertisementFew seem willing to go out on a limb and predict that the revived hospitality business will lead to widespread growth. After all, the county’s comeback has been heralded before.But the signs of progress can seem heartening. “We’re just at the beginning of this,” said Marc Baez, the president of the Partnership for Economic Development in Sullivan County, a nonprofit organization that lends to small businesses and matches developers with land and tax-incentive packages.And yet, “there’s a certain different mood when you drive around the county, from the average resident up into the business community,” Mr. Baez added.Much of the optimism seems to focus on jobs. Though it has dropped considerably in recent years, the county’s jobless rate in January was 6 percent, versus 4.1 percent in Manhattan.That rate could dip further because of Resorts World Catskills, whose site was owned in recent years by the Concord Resort Hotel, a once-grand getaway that has been razed. Of the 1,000 people who work at Resorts World, which is connected to an 18-story, 332-room hotel, about 600 are from Sullivan County, said Ryan Eller, the chief executive of Empire Resorts, the owner.And when other hotels and amenities like an indoor water park and a golf course open on the property by spring 2019, resulting in a total of about 800 rooms, the $1.2 billion project will employ about 2,200 people, Mr. Eller said.Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But jobs could be in jeopardy if business falters, critics say. And the casino may have competition.Other casinos awarded gambling licenses since 2014 to help stimulate their upstate communities include Tioga Downs Casino in Nichols, about 120 miles away, and Rivers Casino and Resort in Schenectady, about the same distance. Resorts World even owns a casino in Queens.Mr. Eller said the competitors did not offer the same family-friendly amenities. “This goes beyond pure gaming,” he added.AdvertisementBut casinos in New York State have suffered from lower-than-expected revenue.On a weekday afternoon in March, the parking lot at Resorts World Catskills had about 200 cars but was not full. Mr. Eller declined to share attendance figures but said snowy weather was probably dampening totals. “We’re pleased with the amount of visitation that we’ve seen,” he said.The county has been generous with tax incentives. Officials defend them as necessary to attract business.But the property tax breaks phase out over time, said Subhash Chandra, the chairman of Essel Group, a company based in India that is developing Yo1 Wellness Center, a 350,000-square-foot, 131-room complex on Baileys Lake.The $165 million project, which is to open in May, is expected to create 200 full-time jobs, said Mr. Chandra, who considered sites in Massachusetts and on Long Island before arriving upstate.Named for the Sanskrit word for “youth,” Yo1 will offer yoga, acupuncture and meditation classes, Mr. Chandra said. Situated on a slice of the former Kutsher’s Hotel and Country Club, a popular borscht belt resort that closed in 2013, Yo1 is just a piece of Mr. Chandra’s development plans for the huge property.Eventually, the 1,400-acre site will have a convention center with its own hotel. And that center will repurpose three Kutsher’s buildings that Mr. Chandra left standing when he otherwise cleared the site, including a racquetball complex. “Our theory is that nothing is permanent in life,” he said.By emphasizing wellness, as opposed to shuffleboard and stand-up comedy, Yo1 brings the region’s tourism back to its origins, said John Conway, Sullivan County’s historian.Beginning in the 1830s, the county was a refuge for city dwellers seeking a healthier environment, especially to rebound from tuberculosis, Mr. Conway said. Those visitors stayed in rustic retreats and engaged in activities like fishing, he added.AdvertisementIt was not until after World War II that the all-inclusive, and indoor-focused, resorts sprang up, he added. “This was the ‘fortress hotel’ that became the standard for Las Vegas casinos,” Mr. Conway said.It’s the period before the borscht belt that informs Sims Foster, a co-founder of Foster Supply Hospitality, which owns four small hotels in the more-rural western part of the county, where Mr. Foster grew up.All the buildings were existing and extensively renovated after being purchased, like the DeBruce, a 14-room lodging that opened last year in Livingston Manor on Willowemoc Creek. It features a dining room with hemlock tables and a wood stove, but also an optional nine-course tasting menu.“Building a new building on top of the hill is going to make everybody nervous,” Mr. Foster said. Other locations include the Nine River Road, on the Delaware River in Callicoon, an 1880s former furniture store that is now an eight-room hotel.Mr. Foster, who works with his wife, Kirsten Harlow Foster, is at work on a fifth property, a former boardinghouse in Kenoza Lake that will have 17 rooms. Twelve cabins will also be offered on the 55-acre property when it opens in 2019, he said.Hotel developers say some benefits will be indirect. After being introduced to the area, guests could be inspired to buy second homes, they say. Already, weekenders have helped revitalize the commercial districts in places like Narrowsburg and Livingston Manor, whose tiny downtowns have a vibrant mix of bistros and housewares shops.Buying a weekend retreat certainly would not be a new trend. As it is, the population of 70,000 in Sullivan County almost doubles when weekenders are counted, Mr. Baez said. Some part-timers even live in old-time bungalow colonies that went co-op years ago.But there may be room to grow, said Dawn J. Curreri, the owner of the Eagle Valley Realty. Prices for single-family houses, which average about $200,000, still have not surpassed their prerecession levels, Ms. Curreri said.And if anything, the new hotels, with workers from elsewhere in some cases, seem to be stimulating the rental market. “It’s too early to tell” what the effect of the new tourism infrastructure will be, Ms. Curreri added.Advertisement“But there are a lot of really good things happening in the entire county,” she said, “and they’re all positive.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ANA SWANSON, ALAN RAPPEPORT and IAN AUSTENMARCH 27, 2018
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s steel and aluminum tariffs are provoking a chain reaction around the globe, as governments from Europe to Canada prepare to erect barriers to prevent cheap metal once bound for the United States from entering their markets.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada announced a series of regulatory changes that would make it easier for border officials to block steel and aluminum imports into that nation. The European Union has begun a “safeguard investigation” that could result in tariffs or other trade actions if it determines that steel intended for the American market is being diverted to the bloc.“These past few days, we’ve looked at strengthening the measures that we already have in place because it’s important that we not be taking in dumped steel from around the world,” Mr. Trudeau told reporters in Ottawa.Foreign policymakers have long shared President Trump’s concerns about cheap foreign steel flooding their markets, particularly from China. But Mr. Trump’s stiff 25 percent steel tariffs and 10 percent aluminum tariffs, which will halt the flow of foreign metals into the United States, have prompted other countries to move more rapidly to curtail overseas imports.AdvertisementThe response could help Mr. Trump claim victory on one of his primary trade goals: cutting down on a glut of cheap Chinese steel, including metals that are routed through other countries through a process known as transshipping.AdvertisementThis month, Mr. Trump called transshipping “a big deal” and argued that China routes much more steel to the United States than the statistics show. Administration officials have contended that Chinese steel is lightly processed and shipped through other countries, but they have been unable to quantify the pervasiveness of this practice.The American metals industry has long claimed that it is powerless against an onslaught of cheap metal from China, which now produces roughly half of the world’s steel and aluminum. Companies argue that past efforts to get China to reduce overcapacity have largely failed and that the only recourse is taking broader action that could galvanize a global movement.Scott N. Paul, the head of the Alliance for American Manufacturing and a supporter of the tariffs, said countries were taking initial steps toward a series of agreements and discussions that could help to squeeze out overcapacity and anticompetitive practices.“Other large steel countries and blocs will necessarily step up to the plate and take a tougher line with China and on transshipment and circumvention. I think you see that occurring in the E.U. with its safeguard investigation, and I think you see that with respect to the Canadian government,” he said. “I don’t think this is by any means the conclusion of the process. I think it’s just getting started.”By restricting the supply of foreign metals in the United States, the tariffs are meant to raise the domestic price of those metals, which will translate into profits for struggling American metal makers. But in the process, more cheap metal will be available in markets outside the United States. That will push down the global price of steel and aluminum and create a two-tiered market.After Mr. Trump announced his tariffs, trade unions and Canada’s steel and aluminum industries warned Mr. Trudeau that, without its own measures, Canada could be flooded with cheap steel and aluminum from countries that export at artificially low prices.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.European officials have also argued that, without protections, their companies could become collateral damage. Officials in Brussels have warned that they will take “safeguard measures” in the form of additional tariffs on steel products if an inquiry into the American tariffs shows there could be a significant surge in cheap steel imports.“The E.U. is more than an innocent bystander,” said Fredrik Erixon, the director for the European Center for International Political Economy, a think tank based in Brussels.AdvertisementThe European Union already has “antidumping” tariffs on steel in place, mainly directed toward cheap Chinese imports. But the bloc’s leaders have also made clear they are prepared to do more and to exert diplomatic pressure on Beijing, pushing China to reduce government subsidies for its steel sector, cut import tariffs and open its market to American and European steel.Some supporters of the tariffs see the moves as evidence that the Trump administration’s strategy is working. But other trade experts see this chain reaction as the first in a damaging series of actions that will end up raising the price of metals globally and making markets around the world less free.Eswar Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell University, said that although Mr. Trump’s approach appeared to be bearing fruit in the short term, it could ultimately hurt the trust of American trading partners and hamper the economy.“Even if it looks like other countries are lining up on the U.S. side, and this is going to help in terms of reducing steel and aluminum supply, it may do very little for employment in those industries, and it may end up hurting other industries that use steel and aluminum as imports,” he said. “So we could end up with a somewhat Pyrrhic victory for the United States.”For decades, the United States has been a primary driver in pushing to remove trade barriers globally, believing that these changes would increase trade and lift wealth around the world. The Trump administration has taken a drastically different approach, arguing that these beliefs have devastated domestic manufacturing and that tariffs and other restrictions are necessary to protect the American market from unfair trade practices.Despite the president’s initial statements that the measure would apply to all countries, Canada, Mexico, members of the European Union, Australia, Argentina, South Korea and Brazil have been exempted from the steel and aluminum tariffs. Together, the countries accounted for nearly two-thirds of American steel and aluminum imports last year.The tariffs now fall on exporters that sent roughly $18 billion in steel and aluminum to the United States in 2017 — mainly Russia, China, Japan, the United Arab Emirates, Taiwan, Turkey, Vietnam and India, according to research by Chad P. Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump continued to push for global pressure on China during telephone calls with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France. In both discussions, according to official readouts released by the White House, Mr. Trump raised China’s unfair trading practices and its “illegal” acquisition of intellectual property.Ana Swanson and Alan Rappeport reported from Washington, and Ian Austen from Ottawa. Milan Schreuer contributed reporting from Brussels.A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump’s Tariffs Set Off a Global Chain Reaction.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.The geneticist at Harvard Medical School has retrieved DNA from more than 900 ancient people. His findings trace the prehistoric migrations of our species.
Profiles in Science By                     
 CARL ZIMMER
 
MARCH 20, 2018
BOSTON — David Reich wore a hooded, white suit, cream-colored clogs, and a blue surgical mask. Only his eyes were visible as he inspected the bone fragments on the counter.Dr. Reich, a geneticist at Harvard Medical School, pointed out a strawberry-sized chunk: “This is from a 4,000-year-old site in Central Asia — from Uzbekistan, I think.”He moved down the row. “This is a 2,500-year-old sample from a site in Britain. This is Bronze Age Russian, and these are Arabian samples. These people would have never met each other in time or space.”Dr. Reich hopes that his team of scientists and technicians can find DNA in these bones. Odds are good that they will.In less than three years, Dr. Reich’s laboratory has published DNA from the genomes of 938 ancient humans — more than all other research teams working in this field combined. The work in his lab has reshaped our understanding of human prehistory.Advertisement“They often answer age-old questions and sometimes provide astonishing unanticipated insights,” said Svante Paabo, the director of the Max Planck Institute of Paleoanthropology in Leipzig, Germany.AdvertisementDr. Reich, Dr. Paabo and other experts in ancient DNA are putting together a new history of humanity, one that runs in parallel with the narratives gleaned from fossils and written records. In Dr. Reich’s research, he and his colleagues have shed light on the peopling of the planet and the spread of agriculture, among other momentous events.In a book to be published next week, “Who We Are and How We Got Here,” Dr. Reich, 43, explains how advances in DNA sequencing and analysis have helped this new field take off.“It’s really like the invention of a new scientific instrument, like a microscope or a telescope,” he said. “When an instrument that powerful is invented, it opens up all these horizons, and everything is new and surprising.”Dr. Reich oversees a team with many different skills, from genetics to mathematics. But the “clean lab” is where the raw material for all their work — ancient DNA — is recovered. The head-to-toe suits that the researchers don in an airlock each morning ensure that no stray flake of skin or bead of sweat contaminates the bones with modern DNA. Each night the entire lab is bathed in gene-destroying ultraviolet light.
            A new book by David Reich, a geneticist at Harvard Medical School, details his laboratory’s findings on prehistoric human migrations and the complex mixing of different populations. This map shows some of those migrations, including the expansion of modern humans from Africa and the Near East, and several major mixing events.        DENISOVANSA finger bone from a Siberian cave yielded the genome of a previously unknown lineage of humans called Denisovans, a diverse group who split from Neanderthals roughly 400,000 years ago.DISPLACING THE NEANDERTHALSAs modern humans moved through Eurasia, they eventually displaced the Neanderthals, who were extinct by around 40,000 years ago.TO THE AMERICASGenetic evidence suggests there were at least four prehistoric migrations into North America, with the first at least 15,000 years ago and the last around 1,000 years ago.EUROPEDenisova CaveEuropeanhunter-gatherersAncient NorthEurasiansApproximaterange ofNeanderthalsASIACHINAAncestors ofEast Asians andAustraliansEast Asianhunter-gatherersPACIFIC WAVESThe first people in the remote Pacific arrived around 3,000 years ago, in a migration that began in Taiwan.MIXING WITH NEANDERTHALSDr. Reich helped prove that a wave of modern humans leaving Africa interbred with Neanderthals, likely in the Near East 54,000 to 49,000 years ago. Living humans outside Africa still carry traces of Neanderthal DNA.INDIATAIWANIndianhunter-gatherersPHILIPPINESAFRICAAncientshorelinesNEWGUINEABANTU EXPANSIONA migration from West Africa beginning about 4,000 years ago spread agriculture to southern Africa. Bantu-speaking farmers displaced some hunter-gatherers and mixed with others, such as central African pygmies and the San in southern Africa.INTO AUSTRALASIAModern humans had arrived in Australia by at least 47,000 years ago.AboriginalAustraliansDr. Reich helped show that this group interbred with a branch of Denisovans, probably somewhere in Southeast Asia, 49,000 to 45,000 years ago.AUSTRALIADENISOVANSA finger bone from a Siberian cave yielded the genome of a previously unknown lineage of humans called Denisovans, a diverse group who split from Neanderthals roughly 400,000 years ago.DISPLACING THE NEANDERTHALSAs modern humans moved through Eurasia, they eventually displaced the Neanderthals, who were extinct by around 40,000 years ago.TO THE AMERICASGenetic evidence suggests there were at least four prehistoric migrations into North America, with the first at least 15,000 years ago and the last around 1,000 years ago.EUROPEDenisova CaveEuropeanhunter-gatherersAncient NorthEurasiansApproximaterange ofNeanderthalsCHINAASIAAncestors ofEast Asians andAustraliansEast Asianhunter-gatherersMIXING WITH NEANDERTHALSDr. Reich helped prove that a wave of modern humans leaving Africa interbred with Neanderthals, likely in the Near East 54,000 to 49,000 years ago. Living humans outside Africa still carry traces of Neanderthal DNA.INDIAIndianhunter-gatherersAFRICAAncientshorelinesBANTU EXPANSIONA migration from West Africa beginning about 4,000 years ago spread agriculture to southern Africa. Bantu-speaking farmers displaced some hunter-gatherers and mixed with others, such as central African pygmies and the San in southern Africa.INTO AUSTRALASIAModern humans had arrived in Australia by at least 47,000 years ago.Dr. Reich helped show that this group interbred with a branch of Denisovans, probably somewhere in Southeast Asia, 49,000 to 45,000 years ago.DISPLACING THE NEANDERTHALSAs modern humans moved through Eurasia, they eventually displaced the Neanderthals, who were extinct by around 40,000 years ago.EUROPEEuropeanhunter-gatherersNeanderthalRANGEMIXING WITH NEANDERTHALSDr. Reich helped prove that a wave of modern humans leaving Africa interbred with Neanderthals, likely in the Near East 54,000 to 49,000 years ago. Living humans outside Africa still carry traces of Neanderthal DNA.AFRICABANTU EXPANSIONA migration from West Africa beginning about 4,000 years ago spread agriculture to southern Africa. Bantu-speaking farmers displaced some hunter-gatherers and mixed with others, such as central African pygmies and the San in southern Africa.DENISOVANSA finger bone from a Siberian cave yielded the genome of a previously unknown lineage of humans called Denisovans, a diverse group who split from Neanderthals roughly 400,000 years ago.DenisovaCaveTO THE AMERICASGenetic evidence suggests there were at least four prehistoric migrations into North America, with the first at least 15,000 years ago and the last around 1,000 years ago.CHINAASIAEast Asianhunter-gatherersAncientshorelinesINTO AUSTRALASIAModern humans had arrived in Australia by at least 47,000 years ago.AboriginalAustraliansDr. Reich helped show that this group interbred with a branch of Denisovans, probably somewhere in Southeast Asia, 49,000 to 45,000 years ago.AUSTRALIAMARCH 19, 2018
The clean lab feels like it belongs in a computer chip factory. But Dr. Reich has not forgotten that these are human remains, not widgets on a conveyor belt.“This is a bone from a person’s body who lived four thousand years ago, and we’re destroying it,” he said, gazing down at the Uzbek remains. “I think we need to do well by the individuals we’re studying.”Doing well means understanding who these people were, and how they were linked to one another — and to us.AdvertisementStanding next to Dr. Reich was a suited technician, Ann Marie Lawson. She picked up the Uzbek bone and lowered it into a box, which she covered with a clear plastic lid. She pushed her gloved hands through two rubber-lined holes on its sides.She picked up the bone in her left hand; with her right hand, she switched on a sandblasting hose and pointed it at the bone. An outer layer of dirt flew upward, quickly sucked away by a fan in the box.Ms. Lawson then inspected the freshly white bone. It came from the base of a skull, and deep inside was the inner ear. The bone that surrounds the inner ear turns out to be the best place in the body to search for ancient DNA.Ms. Lawson began sandblasting again, chiseling away chunks of bone. Eventually, she was left holding a remnant only as big as a grain of rice.“That’s the motherlode,” said Dr. Reich.Dr. Reich grew up in Washington, the son of the novelist Tova Reich and Walter Reich, the first director of the Holocaust Memorial Museum and now a professor at George Washington University.Dr. Reich began studying sociology as a Harvard undergraduate, but later he turned to physics and then to medicine. After graduating, he went to Oxford to prepare for medical school.There he met Dr. David B. Goldstein, who at the time was comparing the DNA of living people for clues to what their distant ancestors were like.“When I first met him, he was obviously smart, but he gave an impression of being a little bit shy and not having a very forceful personality,” said Dr. Goldstein.Advertisement“It turned out that’s the most misleading impression he could possibly give. He knows exactly what he wants to do.”It was obvious that his student was captivated by the research. But Dr. Goldstein had come to view it as a scientific dead end.“I said, ‘My God, don’t spend your career on human evolutionary genetics,” recalled Dr. Goldstein, who now studies disease genetics at Columbia University.“He just listened very politely and wasn’t persuaded an iota,” he added with a laugh. “He wasn’t just proven right. He was proved dramatically right.”Abandoning medical school, Dr. Reich continued with genetics research and was hired by Harvard Medical School in 2003. By then, he had developed a close partnership with a mathematician named Nick Patterson, who had come late in life to genetics after twenty years working as a cryptographer in British intelligence and then joining a hedge fund.Dr. Reich appointed Dr. Patterson deputy head of the newly formed genetics lab, and together they began developing new statistical techniques to plumb genetic data for hidden patterns.The two researchers devised a way to determine whether a single population descended from two or more distinct groups. Collaborating with researchers at the Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad, India, they put their method to its first big test.Analyzing DNA from hundreds of villages, they discovered that just about every living Indian descends from two distinct groups. One, which the researchers called Ancestral North Indians, is related to Central Asians, Near Easterners and Europeans.AdvertisementThe second group, Ancestral South Indians, is a mysterious population that is not closely related to any living people outside of India. The two populations mixed together, Dr. Reich estimated, 2,000 to 4,000 years ago.As Dr. Reich and his colleagues gained attention for their new methods, they got an extraordinary invitation: to study the DNA of Neanderthals.The invitation came from Dr. Paabo. In the 1990s, he had pioneered methods to extract ancient DNA from fossils dating back tens of thousands of years. While he studied many extinct species — such as cave bears, mastodons and ground sloths — Neanderthals were his deepest passion.Fossils of these heavy-browed individuals date back over 200,000 years in Europe and the Near East. They made tools, weapons and even cave art. But they vanished about 40,000 years ago.Dr. Paabo gradually filled in gaps to reconstruct the entire Neanderthal genome. In 2006, he invited Dr. Reich’s team to help figure out how modern humans and Neanderthals were related.Dr. Reich threw himself into the project, and over the next few years, the scientists made a series of landmark discoveries.The DNA of Neanderthals indicates that their ancestors split from our own about 600,000 years ago. But Dr. Reich’s tests revealed that living humans outside of Africa still carry traces of Neanderthal DNA.How is that possible? Before Neanderthals became extinct in Europe, they encountered and interbred with the ancestors of modern humans as they departed Africa.As the scientists searched in more fossils for Neanderthal DNA, they got another surprise. In 2010, a nondescript pinkie bone recovered in a Siberian cave called Denisova yielded the entire genome of a previously unknown, and extinct, lineage of humans.Every week, we’ll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Denisovans, as they came to be known, split off from Neanderthals about 400,000 years ago, genetic analysis revealed.AdvertisementDenisovan DNA has turned up only in a few additional teeth discovered in that Siberian cave. The oldest such fossils date to over 100,000 years old; the pinkie bone belonged to a Denisovan who lived sometime between 48,000 and 60,000 years ago.Dr. Reich and his colleagues discovered that Denisovans, like Neanderthals, left a genetic legacy in living people, mostly in Australia, New Guinea and Asia.Their research also suggested that Denisovans divided early in their history into two lineages. “They were isolated from each other for many hundreds of thousands of years,” said Dr. Reich.A study published on Thursday by Princeton geneticist Joshua Akey and his colleagues confirmed this finding and brought Denisovans into sharper focus.Each branch, the new study suggests, interbred with the ancestors of living humans. One Denisovan group left behind DNA in modern-day Asians and Oceanians. The other branch left genetic traces only in living people in China and Japan.Ancient DNA has summoned the genetic shadows of a long-vanished people, one that fossils alone could not reveal. Many scientists now suspect that ancient DNA will reveal other extinct kinds of humans in the future.Advertisement“The discovery of Denisovan DNA was a landmark in my thinking about ancient DNA,” said Dr. Reich. “It can reveal things about the past that are completely unexpected, that are not dreamed of in our philosophy.”Dr. Reich’s voyage through prehistory left him wondering about what DNA could reveal about more recent events. Museums around the world were loaded with bones of people who lived within the last 20,000 years, after all.Since those remains were younger, they’d be more likely to still have some DNA in them. To begin retrieving it, Dr. Reich retooled his laboratory, copying Dr. Paabo’s facility in Germany to the last detail.“We even cloned the linoleum from Leipzig,” he said.But in important ways, Dr. Reich broke from the standard scientific strategy for searching for ancient DNA.Dr. Paabo and other experts typically examine many fossils to find a rare one packed with DNA. They then try to reconstruct the entire genome.Dr. Reich’s lab instead designed DNA “traps” that snag hundreds of thousands of genetic fragments from the human genome. The result is far from a complete genome sequence, but enough to divine ancestries and even get some clues about the traits of ancient people.In 2015, the first results emerged from Dr. Reich’s new research pipeline. He and his colleagues published DNA from 69 ancient Europeans who lived 3,000 to 8,000 years ago.According to their results, farmers with Near East ancestry displaced hunter-gatherers already living in Europe. Then, about 4,500 years ago, another wave of people arrived, descended from the horse-riding nomads of what are now the Russian steppes.AdvertisementLess than three years since that study, Dr. Reich’s team has published a torrent of similar findings. They have traced the spread of the first farmers in the Near East, for example, and have tracked the rise and fall of various populations in ancient Africa.While some of these results describe migrations across continents, Dr. Reich’s team also focuses on smaller regions to reconstruct the genetic makeup of people over thousands of years.Recently, for example, Dr. Reich and his colleagues published the DNA of people who lived on what are now the British Isles 3,500 to 10,000 years ago. It, too, tells a story.When the Ice Age glaciers retreated from the islands, hunter-gatherers moved in from what is now Europe. About 6,000 years ago, farmers with Near Eastern ancestry reached Britain, and mostly replaced the hunter-gatherers.About 4,500 years ago, archaeologists have found, there was a sudden shift in Britain to new styles of pottery and metalworking, known collectively as the Beaker culture. Many experts have argued that farmers borrowed the techniques from the European continent.But the DNA says otherwise, Dr. Reich and his colleagues found. While the Beaker culture spread from society to society on the mainland, it was brought to Britain by immigrants descended from the nomads of what are now the  Russian steppes.These people almost entirely replaced the earlier farmers. Today, British people trace 90 percent of their ancestry to this immigrant wave.Were it not for the genetic findings, “nobody would have believed the scale of the turnover,” said Ian Armit, an archaeologist at the University of Bradford who collaborated with Dr. Reich on the research.Advertisement“Archaeologists will need to get to grips with this 90 percent replacement, and what this might really mean in human terms,” he added.The Beaker people needed only to cross the English Channel to get to the British Isles. A far more spectacular voyage took place about 3,300 years ago, when humans first sailed to remote islands in the Pacific.Dr. Reich and his colleagues have shed light on that migration by analyzing ancient DNA from the skeletons of early Pacific voyagers.“It’s changed the game,” said Matthew Spriggs, an archaeologist at Australian National University, who has collaborated with Dr. Reich.Until recently, many archaeologists argued that the ancestors of Pacific Islanders were related to the indigenous people of Taiwan. They had sailed south to the islands around New Guinea, the idea went, later mixing with the population, known as Papuans. Only later did their descendants sail east to Pacific islands.This theory helped account for the kinds of languages spoken in the Pacific, the agriculture, and styles of pottery, as well as the mix of East Asian and New Guinea DNA found in the islanders.Dr. Spriggs and other archaeologists provided Dr. Reich with bones from Vanuatu and Tonga, and his team succeeded in recovering DNA where others had failed. And what did it say about the prevailing theory?“We found genetically that wasn’t right at all,” Dr. Reich said. He and his colleagues published their results last month in the journal Current Biology.AdvertisementInstead, the people who first arrived on Vanuatu and other Pacific islands came directly from Asia — perhaps Taiwan or the Philippines — without ever stopping in New Guinea. Only later did a wave of Papuans arrive.“We know now when that wave hits — it hits before 2,400 years ago,” said Dr. Reich. “And it’s a total replacement.”And that second wave actually was made up of at least two migrations. The Papuans who came to what is now Vanuatu probably sailed from the Bismarck Islands. But the Papuans who arrived further east, in Polynesia, came from other islands, possibly New Britain.As of last month, Dr. Reich’s team has published about three-quarters of all the genome-wide data from ancient human remains in the scientific literature. But the scientists are only getting started.They also have retrieved DNA from about 3,000 more samples. And the lab refrigerators are filled with bones from 2,000 more denizens of prehistory.Dr. Reich’s plan is to find ancient DNA from every culture known to archaeology everywhere in the world. Ultimately, he hopes to build a genetic atlas of humanity over the past 50,000 years.“I try not to think about it all at once, because it’s so overwhelming,” he said.An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of a mathematician. He is Nick Patterson, not Neil.Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 20, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Uncovering Ancient DNA.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By KEITH BRADSHER and ALAN RAPPEPORTMARCH 26, 2018
BEIJING — China has struck a hard stance on the issue at the root of the looming trade fight between Beijing and Washington: China’s government-led drive, which Washington describes as breaking international rules, to build the cutting-edge industries of the future.Chinese officials in recent days have been defending the government’s ambitious plan, known as Made in China 2025, to create globally competitive players in industries like advanced microchips, driverless cars and robotics. While Beijing has signaled a willingness to compromise on other matters, the intractable standoff over its core industrial policy could prolong a trade fight that has already shaken markets and led to concerns about a full-blown trade war.“We are three years into the implementation of Made in China 2025, and we will keep going,” Miao Wei, China’s minister of industry and information technology, said on Monday, the last day of a three-day economic policy forum in the Chinese capital.The Trump administration has threatened to impose tariffs on imports involving many of the industries being developed under the Made in China 2025 program. Administration officials strongly object to the program’s goal of having Chinese companies dominate these advanced industries, particularly in the Chinese market.AdvertisementWashington has also protested that companies in the targeted industries have been offered loans at low interest rates by state-controlled Chinese banks. The White House argues that will result in global capacity gluts that could drive down prices and destroy the viability of tech companies in the West, as well as in countries, like Japan and South Korea, that are allied with the United States.Advertisement“China has engaged for a very long time in the theft of our intellectual property as well as practices like forced technology transfer,” Peter Navarro, President Trump’s trade adviser, said on CNBC on Monday. “We’re hopeful that China will basically work with us to address some of these practices.”Mr. Navarro on Monday tried to calm financial markets, which were rattled last week by the prospect of a trade war. He emphasized that “growth and stability” were the aim of Mr. Trump’s policy goal of ensuring that trade with the United States is fair and reciprocal.Investors’ fears of a trade war seemed to subside some on Monday. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index climbed 2.7 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.8 percent and the Nasdaq composite jumped 3.3 percent.Whether an agreement that forestalls a protracted economic conflict can be reached remains unclear. The two nations, whose markets are highly integrated, have engaged in discussions for years with little to show as a result. Talks between the United States and China stalled last summer, and the Comprehensive Economic Dialogue between two countries has produced little progress.The Trump administration has largely shunned the highly structured discussions of past administrations, which were used to try to reach agreement on economic and security issues. The White House now views those channels as producing largely hollow promises by the Chinese and has shifted toward engaging directly with senior-level Chinese counterparts.On Saturday, just two days after the administration announced tariffs on up to $60 billion worth of Chinese imports, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, called Liu He, China’s economic czar, to congratulate him on his new role of vice premier. The two discussed the trade tensions, including reducing tariffs on American cars and opening up China’s financial services sector to American firms.“They also discussed the trade deficit between our two countries and committed to continuing the dialogue to find a mutually agreeable way to reduce it,” a Treasury spokeswoman said.AdvertisementChina’s official news agency, Xinhua, characterized the call between Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Liu as confrontational, with Mr. Liu warning Mr. Mnuchin that America’s trade actions against China were straining economic ties between the countries.Chinese leaders contend that their country’s economy is still developing. They openly reject Mr. Trump’s call for reciprocity in trade relations. They have instead offered concessions like raising  caps on foreign investors’ stakes in Chinese financial institutions, and proposed eliminating import tariffs in narrow categories like drugs to treat cancer.Beijing says that opening up some services sectors would improve the efficiency of the Chinese economy as well as make money for foreign companies. Improving health care, particularly for the aging, has also become a national priority.But Chinese officials argue that their country is still dangerously reliant on smokestack industries of the past, like steel,  aluminum and cheap manufacturing. The average Chinese household lives on a quarter of the income that American and Western European households do, and standards of living remain very low in rural parts of the country, and across central and western China.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce, and Pascal Lamy, a former director general of the World Trade Organization, squared off at the Beijing forum over precisely that issue.Mr. Wang insisted that China had made considerable strides in opening up its health, agriculture and shipping sectors to international competition. He noted that the United States and the European Union had higher tariffs than China on some imports of shirts and dairy products. He argued that China meets its W.T.O. obligations; the W.T.O. has long allowed developing countries to have higher tariffs to protect certain industries from international competition.Mr. Lamy, a longtime critic of protectionism and government intervention, dismissed those arguments. China — which has the world’s second-largest economy, after the United States, and is the world’s largest manufacturer by far, of everything from steel and cement to laptop computers — had made too much progress to be lumped in with poor countries, he said.“Pretending it is like India, or like Senegal, or like Botswana is pushing the envelope too far,” Mr. Lamy said. He added that China still had to do more to “ensure a level playing field between Chinese producers and foreign producers, whether they produce inside China or outside of China.”On crucial issues, China and the United States appear to be talking past each other, not even agreeing on what is being debated.AdvertisementTake semiconductors, for example: China is a major customer for microchips, which are used to power computers, smartphones and an ever-widening array of other electronics. Chips from the United States account for just 4 percent of China’s $260 billion in annual chip imports. While Chinese trade officials have been willing to discuss buying more chips from factories in the United States, that could take market share from Japan and South Korea. Washington has resisted that solution.American officials say the problem is that China’s national, provincial and municipal governments are working with state-owned banks to rush the construction of factories, particularly to make memory chips.The new factories often rely on technology that foreign companies have had to transfer as a condition of competing in the Chinese market, according to the United States. Global trade rules ban mandatory technology transfers.Numerous factories are nearing completion, which will unleash an avalanche of additional output. China contends that it has assisted the sector partly to upgrade its economy and partly because the factories will mainly be supplying its domestic market.But since factories in China are the world’s main assemblers of electronics, the country’s drive for self-sufficiency in microchips could pose a threat to chip producers in the rest of the world.For now, China seems to be pinning its hopes on heavy lobbying in Washington by Wall Street, traditionally Beijing’s most reliable ally in bilateral disputes. China’s sovereign wealth fund owns stakes in a variety of American financial institutions. Estimates of Chinese outbound investment over the next decade run as high as $2.5 trillion, a rich source of advisory fees in the United States.Mr. Wang said on Sunday that China might go beyond its earlier offer to raise caps on foreign ownership in Chinese financial institutions. “It is even possible we will remove those caps altogether” in some categories, he said.But he also made clear that China would not be intimidated if its offers are not enough to satisfy the Trump administration, which has focused on reviving American manufacturing.“If China’s interests are impaired,” he said, “we will have to take measures.”Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher.Keith Bradsher reported from Beijing, and Alan Rappeport from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: China’s State-Backed Tech Is Major Trade Sore Spot for U.S.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:14 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump isn't always bringing genuine statistics to the fight as he goes after China on trade.Trump stretched credulity on a variety of subjects over the past week, trade among them. He mangled comments from 2016 presidential rival Hillary Clinton, inflated expectations of an overhaul in health services for veterans and gave his administration too much credit for defeating the Islamic State. Here's a look at some of his recent statements.TRUMP: "Last year we lost $500 billion on trade with China. We can't let that happen." — comments at the White House on Friday.THE FACTS: That didn't happen. Last year, Americans bought about $506 billion in goods from China. That's not "lost" money but purchases of products that Americans wanted. And it's only part of the equation. China bought more than $130 billion in goods from the U.S. So the actual trade deficit in goods was $375 billion.AdvertisementFactor in trade in services and the actual U.S trade deficit with China was $337 billion.___TRUMP: "On terrorism, in Iraq and Syria, we've taken back almost 100 percent, in a very short period of time, of the land that they took. And it all took place since our election. We've taken back close to 100 percent." — National Republican Congressional Committee dinner Tuesday. Comments Friday: "We've gotten just about 100 percent of our land back from ISIS."AdvertisementTHE FACTS: It's not true that progress against the Islamic State group "all took place" since the election. The Obama administration said IS had lost more than 40 percent of its territory by the time the last president left office.IS was pushed to the point of collapse in Mosul, its main Iraqi stronghold, before Trump took office. In 2016, Iraqi military forces, supported by the U.S.-led coalition, waged successful battles to oust IS from Fallujah, Ramadi, eastern Mosul and a number of smaller towns along the Tigris River. They also established logistical hubs for the push that began in February 2017 to retake western Mosul.It's true that advances since then have decimated IS as a territorial force. Those advances came on many fronts from multiple foes of the Islamic State, including U.S.-backed Iraqi forces and fighters of Syrian President Bashar Assad, supported by Russia.  The assertion that "we've taken back close to 100 percent" is only supportable if "we" means the various groups, often hostile to one another, that have been battling IS.___TRUMP, on Clinton: "I would say her last statement about women — they have to get approval from their husbands, their sons, and their male bosses to vote for Trump. That was not a good statement. Not good." — Republican dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: That's not what she said. In remarks this month in India, Clinton advanced the theory that a slim majority of white women voted for Trump because of "ongoing pressure to vote the way that your husband, your boss, your son, whoever, believes you should." She did not say women felt they needed approval from men to vote for Trump — but rather that they faced pressure from them to side with Trump instead of her.___TRUMP: "Republicans also repealed one of the nation's cruelest and most unfair taxes ever: the Obamacare individual mandate. And the mandate is gone forever. And that's a beauty. You pay a lot of money not to have to pay and not to get health care. So you're paying not to have health care. I mean, that wasn't so good. But we got rid of it." — Republican dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: The mandate is not gone. Fines for going without health insurance coverage are still in effect this year. They disappear next year under the repeal law he signed.Advertisement___TRUMP on a marketing campaign against opioid abuse: "That's the least expensive thing we can do, where you scare them from ending up like the people in the commercials. And we'll make them very, very bad commercials. We'll make them pretty unsavory situations." — speech in New Hampshire, March 19.THE FACTS: This "scared straight" advertising was neither inexpensive nor particularly effective the last time it was tried and researched. There is some evidence, though, that anti-drug messages focused on teenagers' need for independence can help discourage drug use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Between 1998 and 2004, the U.S. government spent nearly $1 billion on a national campaign to persuade young people to avoid illegal drugs, particularly marijuana. A 2008 follow-up study funded by the National Institutes of Health found the campaign "had no favorable effects on youths' behavior" and may actually have prompted some to experiment with drugs — an unintended "boomerang" effect.___TRUMP: "Choice is coming. Choice — where the veterans can actually, instead of waiting on line for weeks and weeks and weeks, they can actually go and see a doctor and have it taken care of, and we pay. And that's going to be the big one." — Republican dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: A long-term plan along these lines doesn't appear to be coming any time soon. It's stalled in Congress and delays experienced in the program so far mean it won't be fully implemented until 2019 or later.A choice program was put in place after a 2014 wait-time scandal that was discovered at the Phoenix VA hospital and elsewhere throughout the country. It allows veterans to go to private doctors if they endure long waits for VA appointments. According to the Government Accountability Office, Congress' investigative arm, people using the program suffer wait times potentially as long as 81 days. Last summer, an unexpected budget shortfall in the program forced VA to limit outside referrals, leading to additional delays in medical care.VA Secretary David Shulkin said last month VA care is "often 40 percent better in terms of wait times" compared with the private sector.He hoped a long-term overhaul would be approved by Congress in December, but proposals have stalled due to disagreements over cost and how much access veterans should have to private doctors.___DEMOCRATIC SEN. PATTY MURRAY, questioning VA Secretary David Shulkin:  "I was really concerned to see your budget asks for a large decrease in the Office of Inspector General ... . I want to know why this budget doesn't provide the OIG with the full funding that they need." — Senate hearing Wednesday on VA budget.AdvertisementSHULKIN: "We are supportive of the role of the OIG as well. And in fact this budget actually does provide them the resources. ...They do have the staffing they need." — Senate hearing Wednesday.THE FACTS: Neither is entirely correct.The Trump administration's proposed budget would provide $172 million to VA's internal watchdog office for the budget year beginning Oct. 1. That's technically an increase from the administration's $159 million budget level in 2018, but a decline from the office's actual spending of roughly $174 million due to increased demands to investigate problems at VA. The inspector general's office used leftover money from previous years to fill the gap, cash that is now largely gone.To maintain current staffing levels, the IG's office is seeking $181 million for the next budget year, or $9 million above what the Trump administration is proposing. Without that money, it says it will have to cut the equivalent of 30 full-time staff positions, most of them directly involved with the IG's core criminal investigations, auditing and health inspections work.The IG office, with about 850 full-time staff, is charged with keeping watch over the government's second largest department, whose 360,000 employees provide medical care and other benefits to 9 million military veterans. In recent months, the watchdog has put out blistering reports concluding that Shulkin violated ethics rules during an 11-day trip to Europe and that systemic leadership problems at VA put patients at risk. Shulkin is now being investigated over allegations that he used his security detail to run personal errands for him; he has denied wrongdoing.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd___Associated Press writers Matthew Perrone, Bradley Klapper and Christopher Rugaber in Washington and Carla K. Johnson in Seattle contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 24, 2018, 11:05 P.M. E.D.T.
KANDY, Sri Lanka —  Police and politicians backed by the country's former strongman President Mahinda Rajapaksa joined anti-Muslim riots that rocked Sri Lanka's Kandy district this month, according to witnesses, officials and CCTV footage reviewed by Reuters.Scores of Muslim mosques, homes and businesses were destroyed as mobs ran amok for three days in Kandy, the central highlands district previously known for its diversity and tolerance. The government declared a state of emergency and blocked social media platforms for a week to control the unrest.The role of police and some local Buddhist politicians suggests the Sri Lankan government lost control of elements of its security forces, and that the violence was more than a spontaneous outbreak fuelled by fringe Buddhist extremists and hate-speech spread on social media.Rajapaksa has denied that he or other leaders of his party were involved. Police said the allegations against officers and politicians were being investigated.AdvertisementVictims and witnesses, whose accounts were partly backed by CCTV footage seen by Reuters, described members of an elite paramilitary police unit, the Special Task Force (STF), assaulting Muslim cleric and leaders. Local STF commanders declined to comment.Advertisement"They came to attack," said A.H Ramees, a cleric at a mosque where worshippers say they were beaten by police who were supposed to be protecting them. "They were shouting. There was filthy language. They said all the problems were because of us, that we were like terrorists."Ruwan Gunasekera, a spokesman for the national police force, including the STF, said a special investigation unit was "probing the deficiencies of the police in the incident". A second unit was examining the role of political actors, he said.The riots were the latest example of rising Buddhist nationalism and anti-Muslim sentiment in the region and have unnerved Sri Lanka's multi-ethnic coalition government, which ousted Rajapaksa in an election in 2015, according to analysts and two sources familiar with the government's deliberations.Buddhists make up about 70 percent of Sri Lanka's 21 million people. Tamils, most of whom are Hindu, account for 13 percent while Muslims make up about 9 per cent of the population.Sri Lanka's Law and Order Minister Ranjith Madduma Bandara has said the violence in Kandy was "well organised" and pointed the finger at members of Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP), a political party backed by Rajapaksa that scored a huge victory in local elections last month. [nL4N1Q22UG]At a press conference flanked by senior leaders earlier this month, Rajapaksa said the accusations were politically motivated. In fact, the government fomented the violence to "get the Muslim vote" and to distract from its inadequacies, he said.TRIGGER FOR VIOLENCEThe violence in Kandy was triggered by an attack on a Buddhist truck driver, H.G Kumarasinghe, by four Muslim men after a traffic dispute on Feb. 22.AdvertisementAs Kumarasinghe lay in a coma, calls for retribution and anti-Islam polemics flooded social media and the government ordered the deployment of 1,000 members of the STF.Rioting erupted after his funeral 11 days later. [nL4N1QO3EI] [nL4N1QP3TL]An excerpt of CCTV footage from the first day of attacks reviewed by Reuters showed police letting a large group of men through the cordon protecting the Noor Jummah mosque in Digana, a Kandy township.The men rush into a multi-story building opposite the mosque. A local SLPP politician, Samantha Perera, can be seen pointing at the higher floors of the building.Perera confirmed he was the person shown in the footage. He said he was trying to calm the rioters and only found out later the mosque had been attacked. "I am a good Buddhist. I am not instigating violence against anybody," he told Reuters.Cabinet spokesman Rajitha Senaratne said Perera was under investigation for "attacking Muslim-owned shops and mosques with stones". At least three other SLPP politicians, including a national politician, were being investigated and another SLPP councillor has been arrested for setting fire to a mosque, he said. All deny any involvement in the violence.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."There's a political motive to discredit me, Mahinda Rajapaksa and the party," Perera said."MONSTER BEYOND CONTROL"Anti-Muslim sentiment has surged in Sri Lanka since 2009, when a long civil war against Tamil insurgents was brutally ended by Rajapaksa amid charges by a United Nations panel of experts of human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings by the military and STF.As in Myanmar, from where 700,000 Rohingya Muslims have fled an army crackdown in recent months, Buddhist hardliners in Sri Lanka have argued that Islam is a threat to the Buddhist way of life.Though the level of violence is not comparable, the Sri Lankan Secretariat for Muslims, a civil society group, logged more than 600 attacks and threats to Muslims in the past five years, according to director Hilmy Ahamed, who added the rate of anti-Muslim violence had accelerated in the recent years.Advertisement"The fear that Muslims are going to take over, are going to deprive you of your welfare, is so widespread," he said.Veteran political analyst Jayadeva Uyangoda said Buddhist chauvinism in Sri Lanka was a "monster beyond control", as local activists draw inspiration from the Buddhist extremists in Myanmar and Hindu radicals in India hostile to Muslims."CAN YOU BELIEVE IT?"About 10 minutes after the incident near the Noor Jummah mosque shown in the CCTV footage, the mob returned via a back road, out of the line of sight of the mosque's exterior cameras, and threw a petrol bomb into the mosque's first floor office, according to witnesses Mohamed Niyaskhan, who said he was beaten and left bloodied, and the mosque secretary M.I.M Shukry.The men burned Korans during 45 minutes of looting and destruction, they said.Niyaskhan said earlier that day he had prepared food and drinks for STF members protecting the mosque, but they had left shortly before the attack."No STF, no police were there," he said. "They had gone around the corner. Can you believe it?"Later that day, eight to 10 members of the STF rushed the Hijrapura mosque, also in Digana, according to clerics and worshippers.The police assaulted worshippers with batons, according to Ramees, the cleric.CCTV footage shows police in riot gear striking Ramees and another cleric, M.S.M Nizam, four times with batons. A local Buddhist monk, Gerendigala Chanda Wimala, told Reuters he saw the men being manhandled by police and successfully demanded their release.At about the same time, a local Muslim politician, Abdul Saleem Mohamad Fazil, and a friend Mohamad Faizal, were also attacked by members of the elite police unit, according to the victims and a witness, Father Christy Paul, the prelate at Digana's Catholic church."Three STFs came through the back entrance of the house and started beating us," said Fazil, who suffered a deep head wound and said he spent in a night in prison after being refused medical treatment.Advertisement"They grabbed some bottles from the landing and put them in a bag and said we were making petrol bombs."Father Christy said he heard the men's screams and saw the police hitting them with batons. The men were cowering on the ground and not offering any resistance to the police, he said.A local STF commander, asked about the incidents described to Reuters, declined to comment, citing restrictions on talking to the media. The law and order ministry referred to the police special investigation into alleged abuses.Police say they have arrested more than 300 people involved in the riots.(Reporting by Tom Allard and Shihar Aneez; Additional Reporting by Ranga Sirilal; Editing by Alex Richardson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 8:41 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump isn't always bringing genuine statistics to the fight as he goes after China on trade.Trump stretched credulity on a variety of subjects over the past week, trade among them. He mangled comments from 2016 presidential rival Hillary Clinton, inflated expectations of an overhaul in health services for veterans and gave his administration too much credit for defeating the Islamic State. Here's a look at some of his recent statements.TRUMP: "Last year we lost $500 billion on trade with China. We can't let that happen." — comments at the White House on Friday.THE FACTS: That didn't happen. Last year, Americans bought about $506 billion in goods from China. That's not "lost" money but purchases of products that Americans wanted. And it's only part of the equation. China bought more than $130 billion in goods from the U.S. So the actual trade deficit in goods was $375 billion.AdvertisementFactor in trade in services and the actual U.S trade deficit with China was $337 billion.___TRUMP: "On terrorism, in Iraq and Syria, we've taken back almost 100 percent, in a very short period of time, of the land that they took. And it all took place since our election. We've taken back close to 100 percent." — National Republican Congressional Committee dinner Tuesday. Comments Friday: "We've gotten just about 100 percent of our land back from ISIS."AdvertisementTHE FACTS: It's not true that progress against the Islamic State group "all took place" since the election. The Obama administration said IS had lost more than 40 percent of its territory by the time the last president left office.IS was pushed to the point of collapse in Mosul, its main Iraqi stronghold, before Trump took office. In 2016, Iraqi military forces, supported by the U.S.-led coalition, waged successful battles to oust IS from Fallujah, Ramadi, eastern Mosul and a number of smaller towns along the Tigris River. They also established logistical hubs for the push that began in February 2017 to retake western Mosul.It's true that advances since then have decimated IS as a territorial force. Those advances came on many fronts from multiple foes of the Islamic State, including U.S.-backed Iraqi forces and fighters of Syrian President Bashar Assad, supported by Russia.  The assertion that "we've taken back close to 100 percent" is only supportable if "we" means the various groups, often hostile to one another, that have been battling IS.___TRUMP, on Clinton: "I would say her last statement about women — they have to get approval from their husbands, their sons, and their male bosses to vote for Trump. That was not a good statement. Not good." — Republican dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: That's not what she said. In remarks this month in India, Clinton advanced the theory that a slim majority of white women voted for Trump because of "ongoing pressure to vote the way that your husband, your boss, your son, whoever, believes you should." She did not say women felt they needed approval from men to vote for Trump — but rather that they faced pressure from them to side with Trump instead of her.___TRUMP: "Republicans also repealed one of the nation's cruelest and most unfair taxes ever: the Obamacare individual mandate. And the mandate is gone forever. And that's a beauty. You pay a lot of money not to have to pay and not to get health care. So you're paying not to have health care. I mean, that wasn't so good. But we got rid of it." — Republican dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: The mandate is not gone. Fines for going without health insurance coverage are still in effect this year. They disappear next year under the repeal law he signed.Advertisement___TRUMP on a marketing campaign against opioid abuse: "That's the least expensive thing we can do, where you scare them from ending up like the people in the commercials. And we'll make them very, very bad commercials. We'll make them pretty unsavory situations." — speech in New Hampshire on Monday.THE FACTS: This "scared straight" advertising was neither inexpensive nor particularly effective the last time it was tried and researched. There is some evidence, though, that anti-drug messages focused on teenagers' need for independence can help discourage drug use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Between 1998 and 2004, the U.S. government spent nearly $1 billion on a national campaign to persuade young people to avoid illegal drugs, particularly marijuana. A 2008 follow-up study funded by the National Institutes of Health found the campaign "had no favorable effects on youths' behavior" and may actually have prompted some to experiment with drugs — an unintended "boomerang" effect.___TRUMP: "Choice is coming. Choice — where the veterans can actually, instead of waiting on line for weeks and weeks and weeks, they can actually go and see a doctor and have it taken care of, and we pay. And that's going to be the big one." — Republican dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: A long-term plan along these lines doesn't appear to be coming any time soon. It's stalled in Congress and delays experienced in the program so far mean it won't be fully implemented until 2019 or later.A choice program was put in place after a 2014 wait-time scandal that was discovered at the Phoenix VA hospital and elsewhere throughout the country. It allows veterans to go to private doctors if they endure long waits for VA appointments. According to the Government Accountability Office, Congress' investigative arm, people using the program suffer wait times potentially as long as 81 days. Last summer, an unexpected budget shortfall in the program forced VA to limit outside referrals, leading to additional delays in medical care.VA Secretary David Shulkin said last month VA care is "often 40 percent better in terms of wait times" compared with the private sector.He hoped a long-term overhaul would be approved by Congress in December, but proposals have stalled due to disagreements over cost and how much access veterans should have to private doctors.___DEMOCRATIC SEN. PATTY MURRAY, questioning VA Secretary David Shulkin:  "I was really concerned to see your budget asks for a large decrease in the Office of Inspector General ... . I want to know why this budget doesn't provide the OIG with the full funding that they need." — Senate hearing Wednesday on VA budget.AdvertisementSHULKIN: "We are supportive of the role of the OIG as well. And in fact this budget actually does provide them the resources. ...They do have the staffing they need." — Senate hearing Wednesday.THE FACTS: Neither is entirely correct.The Trump administration's proposed budget would provide $172 million to VA's internal watchdog office for the budget year beginning Oct. 1. That's technically an increase from the administration's $159 million budget level in 2018, but a decline from the office's actual spending of roughly $174 million due to increased demands to investigate problems at VA. The inspector general's office used leftover money from previous years to fill the gap, cash that is now largely gone.To maintain current staffing levels, the IG's office is seeking $181 million for the next budget year, or $9 million above what the Trump administration is proposing. Without that money, it says it will have to cut the equivalent of 30 full-time staff positions, most of them directly involved with the IG's core criminal investigations, auditing and health inspections work.The IG office, with about 850 full-time staff, is charged with keeping watch over the government's second largest department, whose 360,000 employees provide medical care and other benefits to 9 million military veterans. In recent months, the watchdog has put out blistering reports concluding that Shulkin violated ethics rules during an 11-day trip to Europe and that systemic leadership problems at VA put patients at risk. Shulkin is now being investigated over allegations that he used his security detail to run personal errands for him; he has denied wrongdoing.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd___Associated Press writers Matthew Perrone, Bradley Klapper and Christopher Rugaber in Washington and Carla K. Johnson in Seattle contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Siva VaidhyanathanOn March 16, as the buzzer sounded in perhaps the worst upset in N.C.A.A. tournament history, and my beloved University of Virginia went down to the 16th-seeded University of Maryland, Baltimore County, I had one thought: I need to deactivate my Facebook account. I did not want to endure the taunts and trash talk of my friends who cheer for Duke.I do this often. When I need to focus on a project or relax a bit, I turn off the noise that comes from Facebook — the constant stream of disturbing faces, angry comments and shallow pulls on my precious attention. I also lose the lovely pictures of puppies and babies. But sometimes it’s worth it to retreat from the addictive torrent of stimuli framed in blue.If you feel the same way about how Facebook affects your daily life, by all means suspend or even delete your account (not that Facebook makes it easy to). But don’t pretend it will make a difference to Facebook or to the state of the world.A Twitter movement known as #DeleteFacebook is motivated by the stream of terrible things that Facebook has been involved in, including the proliferation of hate speech, harassment and propaganda meant to undermine trust in democratic institutions. The final spark was the news that the British political data firm Cambridge Analytica had acquired Facebook data on 50 million Americans.But even if tens of thousands of Americans quit Facebook tomorrow, the company would barely feel it. Facebook has more than 2.1 billion users worldwide. Its growth has plateaued in the United States, but the service is gaining millions of new users outside North America every week. Like most global companies, Facebook focuses its attention on markets like India, Egypt, Indonesia, the Philippines, Brazil and Mexico. At current rates of growth, it could reach three billion users by 2020.People in those countries are getting value out of Facebook; in some places, it’s one of the few reliable ways to keep in touch. In much of the developing world, Facebook is also the only news source that matters. This should horrify us. But it’s not a problem that will be solved by indignant Americans leaving the service.Moreover, quitting Facebook lets Google and Twitter off the hook. It lets AT&T and Comcast and its peers off the hook. The dangers of extremist propaganda and hate speech are just as grave on YouTube, which is owned by Google. Russian agents undermining trust in institutions and democracy are even more visible on Twitter. And every major telecommunications firm, as well as Google and Twitter, relies on surveillance systems similar to the one Facebook uses to run targeted advertising. Facebook is bigger and better at all of this than the others, but its problems are not unique.Facebook’s problems are not peripheral, not just some rough edges that can be sanded down. Its core functions are to deploy its algorithms to amplify content that generates strong emotional responses among its users, and then convert what it learns about our interests and desires into targeted ads. This is what makes Facebook Facebook. This is also what makes Facebook such an effective vehicle for promoting so much garbage and what makes it the most pervasive personal surveillance system in the world. As long as that’s true, don’t expect Facebook to fix itself.Hope lies, instead, with our power as citizens. We must demand that legislators and regulators get tougher. They should go after Facebook on antitrust grounds. Facebook is by far the dominant social platform in the United States, with 68 percent of American adults using it, according to the Pew Research Center. That means Facebook can gobble up potential competitors, as it already has with Instagram, and crowd out upstarts in fields such as artificial intelligence and virtual reality.The Department of Justice should consider severing WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger from Facebook, much as it broke up AT&T in 1982. That breakup unleashed creativity, improved phone service and lowered prices. It also limited the political power of AT&T.The European Union has already stepped up its legal efforts to protect data. Its General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect in May, is intended to ensure that users understand and consent to data collection and how that data is used. Users won’t have to agree to give access to their data to start using a product.As with some recent American consumer finance regulations, data collection policies under the new European Union rules must be clear, concise and in plain language. Companies will have to declare up front how they will use the data, and users can withdraw consent at any time. This should significantly deter many abuses that companies like Facebook and Google have committed. It won’t repair the sins of the past. But it’s something.Regulatory interventions have limitations. As long as Facebook is big and rich, its algorithms will determine and distort much of what we read and watch. Our long-term agenda should be to bolster institutions that foster democratic deliberation and the rational pursuit of knowledge. These include scientific organizations, universities, libraries, museums, newspapers and civic organizations. They have all been enfeebled over recent years as our resources and attention have shifted to the tiny addictive devices in our hands.If we act together as citizens to champion these changes, we have a chance to curb the problems that Facebook has amplified. If we act as disconnected, indignant moral agents, we surrender the only power we have: the power to think and act collectively. We could even use Facebook to mount campaigns to rein in Facebook. It is, after all, a powerful tool for motivation, even if it’s a terrible tool for deliberation.So go ahead and quit Facebook if it makes you feel calmer or more productive. Please realize, though, that you might be offloading problems onto those who may have less opportunity to protect privacy and dignity and are more vulnerable to threats to democracy. If the people who care the most about privacy, accountability and civil discourse evacuate Facebook in disgust, the entire platform becomes even less informed and diverse. Deactivation is the opposite of activism.Siva Vaidhyanathan is a professor of media studies at the University of Virginia and the author of the forthcoming book “Antisocial Media: How Facebook Disconnects Us and Undermines Democracy.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionColin KoopmanAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Paul ElieVATICAN CITY — One recent Friday evening, Pope Francis presided over a penitential service at St. Peter’s. After the Gospel was read he strode beneath the great dome and knelt at a wooden booth, while other Catholics did likewise throughout the basilica. “I am a sinner,” he had said shortly after his election in 2013, and five years later the self-description still holds: Before going into the booth to listen as others confessed their sins, he confessed his own.In recent centuries, the pope has been both symbol and cipher for an authoritarian ruler. As Western governments became more expressive of the will of the governed, the leader of the Roman Catholic Church has been seen, by contrast, as a figure vested in bulletproof pre-modern absolutes, immune to electoral or popular pressures, accountable to God alone.So it’s striking that in our time, Pope Francis has emerged as a counterweight to authoritarian rule, a pope who has set the office he holds in symbolic opposition to would-be autocrats.The age of the strongman is at hand: Xi Jinping in China, Vladimir Putin in Russia, Viktor Orban in Hungary and Donald Trump in the United States all disdain checks and balances, the independent press and other forces that might counter a self-determined chief executive.In these circumstances, Pope Francis has emerged as the anti-strongman. His choice of name evoked Francis of Assisi, humble patron saint of the poor. His decision to live in the Santa Marta guesthouse rather than the Vatican Palace suggested his essential simplicity. Paying his hotel bill in Rome, carrying his own briefcase onto Shepherd One: Here was a pope with both feet on the ground.Those gestures also signaled his wish to unhitch the papacy from the office’s authoritarian legacy. The name Francis (never before chosen by a pope) placed him outside the lineage of his roman-numeraled, monarchical predecessors. Setting up in the guesthouse kept him clear of the papacy’s history of worldly power through rule of the Papal States. Paying his hotel bill suggested that even a potentate doesn’t get a free ride.Francis took office at a time of unprecedented change for the papacy. Benedict’s resignation in February 2013 — the first by a pope in 598 years — altered the power structure of the Vatican overnight. Now that it can no longer be assumed a pope will rule for life, the Vatican is less like an absolute monarchy than a coalition government in which politicking is out in the open and the pope must hold factions together.Francis has embraced this new openness: appointing a group of consulting cardinals, and actually consulting them; holding a papal synod focused on discussion more than conclusions; answering hard questions unguardedly; and taking his strongest stand on the problem of environmental degradation.Even as they grant that he was elected to shake up the constricted Vatican bureaucracy, his critics see his approach as that of a stealthy revolutionary or a reckless agent of disruption. In fact, Francis’s exercise of the papal role reflects the Jesuit practice of discernment, which involves waiting, listening, letting competing options for action emerge, and choosing one after prayer and internal deliberation.The group of advisory cardinals is significant because it belies the supposed solitary autonomy of papal decision-making and incorporates cardinals from places long thought remote from power: Santiago, Chile, and Mumbai, India, as well as Munich and Boston. The group’s members are compromised figures whose blind spots are often akin to Francis’s own. But it is a significant step that such a body exists at all.The 2015 synod on marriage and the family, judged a debacle by many, is better understood as an instance of soft power in action. By calling the synod, Francis signaled that the issues surrounding Catholic teaching on marriage are not closed to further Vatican discussion — in sharp contrast to the “Rome has spoken” approach of his predecessors. Then Francis set out to point the synod discussions in a progressive direction on the issue of whether divorced-and-remarried Catholics in certain countries may receive communion at Mass. Traditionalists accused Francis of flirting with heresy.Of necessity, the process was unruly. But discussions were had, and cardinals who opposed Francis were heard — because Francis let them be heard. He gave a closing speech thick with exasperation, replaced some resistant curial officials and demoted the hostile American Cardinal Raymond Burke — but he set aside the most far-reaching proposals about marriage and family for a future time, meanwhile keeping the discussion open.Francis has acted on his conviction that Catholic faith is less about the use of power to shape the social order — the stuff of present strongmen and past popes — than about straightforward efforts of kindness and generosity.While John Paul forged a relationship with Opus Dei — the strict and secretive movement with roots in the postwar Spain of Francisco Franco — Francis is at ease with the Community of Sant’Egidio, founded in Rome during the student uprisings of 1968 and now present in 70 countries, working with the poor, migrants, the elderly and people with AIDS. With its members, Francis has acted like a 21st-century Christian who happens to be pope: washing the feet of Muslim men and women on Holy Thursday, airlifting Syrians out of the Lesbos refugee camp on the papal plane and instituting a shelter for homeless people inside the Vatican.Francis could serve as pope for another year, or five or 10. The test of his soft power in the coming years will be its encounter with hard power. Will he issue an encyclical on migration and the demonizing of the immigrant “other”? As he seeks openings for the church in seething Russia and rising China, will he address those countries’ human rights violations, opposing authoritarianism with the authority of the Gospel? Possibly — but not certainly. Traditionalists in the Vatican are insisting that Francis would do better not to engage with intransigent leaders and intractable problems at all. And Francis’s record is frankly poor in some areas. On priestly sexual abuse, for example, he has acted like a highhanded cleric of old instead of taking firm, clear action.Symbolically, the papacy is meant to be a “contrast structure” to worldly forms of authority. Too often, it has been such a structure in the wrong ways: crabbed, self-protecting, aloof and denunciatory. Five years into his pontificate, Francis is no small-d democrat, no faultless leader — and no perfect pope. And yet in this pope, our upside-down age has a leader whose approach and example stand as reminders of what the sensitive exercise of power can look like.Paul Elie, the author of “The Life You Save May Be Your Own” and “Reinventing Bach,” is a senior fellow at Georgetown’s Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25, 2018, 10:50 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Factbox on major ball-tampering incidents in cricket after in the wake of the ongoing probe into the Australian team for attempting to alter the state of the ball during the third day of the third test against South Africa:- 1977 - England bowler John Lever was accused of applying Vaseline on one side of the ball to make it swing better during the third test against India in Chennai.- The visitors said that Lever and bowling partner Bob Willis had applied Vaseline-covered gauze above their eyes to divert sweat from their forehead away.- No charges were brought.- 1990 - New Zealand had used bottle tops to tamper the ball during the third test against Pakistan in Faisalabad, former wicket-keeper batsman Adam Parore said decades later.- The tampering increased the swing on the ball and helped seamer Chris Pringle take an 11-wicket haul.Advertisement- No charges were brought.- 1994 - England captain Michael Atherton rubbed loose dirt from his pocket onto the ball during the first test against South Africa at Lord's.Advertisement- Atherton said that he used the soil, taken from the pitch, to keep his hands dry.- He was fined but avoided suspension and held on to the captaincy.- 2000 - Pakistan paceman Waqar Younis worked on the ball with his fingers in a match against South Africa during a triangular one-day series in Sri Lanka in 2000.- The bowler was the first player to be suspended for ball tampering after being found guilty and was also fined 50 percent of his match fees.- 2001 - Indian batting great Sachin Tendulkar was accused of scuffing the seam by running his fingers on it by match referee Mike Denness during the second test against South Africa in 2001.- Tendulkar maintained his innocence saying that he was trying to remove dirt from the ball in wet conditions but was handed a suspended one-match ban.- The Indian team threatened to pull out of the tour if the decision was not reversed. The Indian cricket board (BCCI) boycotted the third test and fielded a reserve team to play an unofficial test.- International Cricket Council (ICC) subsequently said that Tendulkar was not guilty of ball tampering but rather of cleaning the ball without the umpire's permission.Advertisement- 2004 - Indian batsman Rahul Dravid rubbed a cough lozenge on the shiny side of the ball during a one-day international win over Zimbabwe in a triangular series held at Brisbane.- Dravid was found to be guilty by match referee Clive Lloyd and was fined 50 percent of his match fee.- 2005 - Former England batsman Marcus Trescothick said in his autobiography that he used mint-induced saliva to keep the shine on the ball as his team recorded their first Ashes victory after 18 years.- The tampering aided with the unplayable swing delivered by England bowlers as Australia lost the series 2-1.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.- No charges were brought against Trescothick, who retired before his book was published.- 2006 - During a controversial test at the Oval, England were awarded five extra runs after Pakistan were accused of ball tampering by umpires Darrell Hair and Billy Doctrove.- Pakistan refused to take the field after the tea break, in protest of the decision, and forfeited the test.- The scandal led to years of conflict between the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) and current and former players.- 2010 - England bowlers Stuart Broad and James Anderson were accused of ball tampering after the former treaded on the ball with his spikes while the latter appeared to be picking at the seam during a test against South Africa.- The duo both rejected the accusations, with Broad saying he was just being lazy while stopping the ball and Anderson claiming he was absent-mindedly playing with it.Advertisement- Neither player was charged.- 2010 - Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi was caught on camera biting the ball during a one-day international against Australia in Perth.- Afridi was banned for two Twenty20 internationals.- 2012 - Australia bowler Peter Siddle was accused by Sri Lanka of raising the seam of the ball during the first test at Hobart after the paceman collected five wickets for 54 runs in the first innings.- Siddle was later cleared by the ICC.- 2013 - South Africa batsman Faf du Plessis scuffed the ball on the zippers of his trousers while fielding during a test against Pakistan in 2013.- On-field umpires awarded Pakistan five runs and changed the ball.- Du Plessis plead guilty to the charge and was fined 50 percent of his match fees.- 2014 - South Africa's Vernon Philander scratched the ball with his finger and thumbs during a test against Sri Lanka at Galle.- Philander was found guilty and fined 75 percent of his match fees.- 2016 - Faf du Plessis was charged for ball tampering yet again during the second test against Australia at Hobart after the South African skipper applied saliva from a mint or lollipop onto the ball.- Du Plessis was found guilty by the ICC and fined his entire match fee.- 2018 - Australia batsman Cameron Bancroft was caught on camera using a yellow object to rub the ball and then concealing the object in his trousers during the third test against South Africa.- Captain Steve Smith and Bancroft admitted to the offence at the end-of-day press conference, saying a number of senior Australian players had planned the tampering.- Smith and David Warner stepped down from their roles as captain and vice-captain respectively.- The ICC suspended Smith for one test and fined him 100 percent of his match fee while Bancroft was fined 75 percent of his match fee.Advertisement(Reporting by Aditi Prakash in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By IAN PARKESMARCH 22, 2018
After seven years of testing and debate, a head protection system will appear on racecars for the first time in a Formula One grand prix on Sunday.The feature, known as the halo — although the correct technical term is frontal cockpit protection device — is a roll-bar structure with a single central strut, made of titanium and weighing 15.4 pounds.A driver’s head has long been vulnerable in open-wheel racing. The need for better protection became obvious in 2009, when one driver was killed and another injured in separate incidents a week apart.Henry Surtees, the son of John Surtees, a Formula One world champion, was killed when an untethered wheel struck him on the helmet during a Formula Two race at the Brands Hatch track in England.AdvertisementSix days later, during qualifying for the Hungarian Grand Prix, Felipe Massa, then driving for Ferrari, was hit on the helmet by a suspension spring that had fallen off the Brawn GP car of a fellow Brazilian, Rubens Barrichello. Massa, who required a titanium plate in his head, returned to racing the next season.Advertisement“When we started the program in 2011, we looked at a very large variety of solutions to ensure nothing was discounted,” Laurent Mekies, safety director at the F.I.A., the sport’s governing body, explained in an interview. Mekies, who is to join Ferrari in September in a technical role, added, “It was an open-minded approach, to look at everything, all possible concepts.“So we looked at full canopies — a fighter-jet style of the canopy; we looked at a roll bar in front of the drivers, and a partial roll bar just in front of the monocoque.“Some of these concepts made it to the track. For instance, with the GP2 cars, we used a roll bar in front of the drivers, in order to not only protect them but also assess visibility.”It was determined that a driver needed to be protected from an object as large as a complete wheel assembly, weighing 44 pounds and traveling at 140 miles an hour.“This was the driving factor of all the concepts,” Mekies said. “All our testing was based around that.“As we progressed the work, what we realized is that in asking for a structure to be as strong as what we were looking for, it had massive benefits in a number of other areas and potential accidents, other than a simple wheel strike,” such as car-to-car contact or a car hitting a tire or concrete wall.“Having chosen the load, the testing conditions involved a full-scale dynamic test where we projected a wheel assembly at the structure, and observing the behavior, or not, of that structure, in two respects: Does it fail? And is it able to deflect a wheel away from the driver’s head?”AdvertisementThroughout development, and before making a final decision on which device to use, Mekies and the F.I.A. were aware of the impact the structure would have on the sport.After its initial introduction at a preseason test in 2016, the halo was almost universally derided, in particular for its aesthetics.So Red Bull developed its own prototype, the aeroscreen, which struggled in tests conducted by the F.I.A. before the team abandoned the idea.The F.I.A. had planned to introduce the halo for the start of the 2017 season, but decided to look at other options, forcing a delay.At last year’s British Grand Prix, and after relatively successful tests, a system known as the shield was fitted to the Ferrari of Sebastian Vettel during a practice session. During that short test, it was discovered that the device offered less protection than the halo.So the halo was adopted, but criticism remains.Toto Wolff, the head of the Mercedes team, recently said he was “not impressed with the whole thing.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“If you give me a chain saw, I would take it off,” he said. “We need to look after the driver’s safety, but what we have implemented is aesthetically not appealing.“We need to come up with a solution that simply looks better. It’s a massive weight on top of the car, and you screw up the center of gravity massively. As impressive as the statistic is that you could put a bus on top of it, this is a Formula One car.”Mekies said making a decision “was not an easy process.”“The reason why is because you have many different sensitivities when it comes to how safe the sport needs to be; is the danger part of the thrill of watching it?” he said. “Then there were the aesthetic considerations of bolting a new structure on an open cockpit.Advertisement“From an aesthetic point of view, it was something so new — and we didn’t target aesthetics then, we targeted function and maximum safety — the initial reaction was very mixed.“But once we showed it to people — and perhaps we should have done more, and much earlier — the ways in which it would be beneficial in an accident scenario, then we started to receive more support.”But the device has created difficulties for the teams.Andrew Green, the technical director of Force India, claims it has cost his team “in the hundreds of thousands, if not the millions” of dollars to put on the car because it has forced teams to make other changes to their cars. The system itself costs just $16,000.The team is still working on the aerodynamics of the halo, which has “a significant downstream effect, especially around the wing area,” Green said.Another effect has been on weight. While the F.I.A. increased the overall minimum weight of this year’s cars by 13.2 pounds to 1,618 pounds, the weight of the halo, along with the mountings to attach it to the car, totals 26.5 pounds.“The weight limit did go up, but by not nearly as much as the installation weight of the halo, which put additional stress on all the other parts of the car.“The other area we had to bear in mind is that we have to hit a weight distribution target, so we faced a big challenge, with the architecture of the car changing right up to the last minute.”Whatever the discontent among teams, the halo is now a fixture in Formula One. Although the halo is the first head protection device approved by the F.I.A., it is unlikely to be the last.“There is no direction we will not pursue,” Mekies said. “It could be a canopy, or maybe automatic deployment of the safety structure, if you want to look further.Advertisement“In terms of research and development, that is very much our job, to look at different styles of things. Whatever we do, it has to be done for additional safety, and that is the overriding reason why we now have the halo.”A version of this article appears in print on March 24, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: A new era of protecting drivers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAN LEVINMARCH 22, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Boris Johnson’s Hitler comment, Mark Zuckerberg’s admission and Emmanuel Macron’s big challenge. Here’s what you need to know:• Tensions between Britain and Russia hit a new peak.Boris Johnson, the top British diplomat, told Parliament that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, would use the World Cup this summer as a propaganda tool, much as Hitler did with the 1936 Olympic Games.In Moscow, the Russian Foreign Ministry summoned foreign diplomats to suggest Britain itself may have been responsible for poisoning a former Russian double agent and his daughter with a nerve agent. (The British ambassador did not attend.)Separately, European leaders are expected to approve a deal today to avoid a sudden change of trade rules when Britain quits the European Union next March. But Brexit supporters are angry about policy retreats from London.Advertisement_____• President Trump plans today to announce at least $50 billion worth of annual tariffs and other penalties against China for its theft of technology and trade secrets, which administration officials say has robbed American companies of billions of dollars in revenue and killed thousands of jobs. Above, Mr. Trump led a delegation of top U.S. companies to China last year.AdvertisementThe measures represent Mr. Trump’s most aggressive move yet against a fast-rising economic rival that he has accused of preying on the United States.Mr. Trump also defended his decision to congratulate Mr. Putin on his re-election, and he lashed out at the news media for reporting that he had disregarded the advice of his national security team in doing so._____• “We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it.”Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, broke his silence on the growing furor over reports that outside companies harvested data from 50 million accounts.He said Facebook would crack down on outside apps and bolster privacy. The company has lost about $50 billion in market value since the reports were published, and growing numbers of users are considering deleting their accounts. British officials investigating fake news say Mr. Zuckerberg misled them and have summoned him for an explanation.On “The Daily,” we talk to one of our reporters who broke the story and discuss how a key data scientist at Cambridge Analytica, one of the companies involved, became a whistle-blower._____• A proposal by President Emmanuel Macron to erase the special status — and cut the generous benefits — of French railway workers has created a new and formidable challenge to his campaign to reshape France: strikes.A wave of nationwide walkouts by public sector workers, the first since Mr. Macron took office, begins today. Trains, planes and schools will be affected, and how he responds will be a signal of his resolve.Advertisement_____What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• The European authorities proposed revamping how digital businesses in the region are taxed, outlining broad changes that they hope will curb tax avoidance across the bloc. Above, Google’s headquarters in Dublin.• The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Under a new chairman, Jerome Powell, it signaled two more increases this year.• Swiss prosecutors began an investigation into the French luxury group Kering, owner of Gucci and Saint Laurent, widening the legal scrutiny of its tax practices in Europe.• One of Turkey’s leading media groups was sold to an ally of the country’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a move widely seen as likely to further limit the independence of the Turkish news media.• Our technology reporter in Mumbai explains how cheap mobile data is changing India, and why WhatsApp is indispensable.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Israel confirmed it had destroyed a Syrian nuclear reactor in 2007, breaking years of secrecy as tensions mount over Iran’s nuclear ambitions. (Israel released the above image yesterday.) [The New York Times]• The ashes of Stephen Hawking, the renowned cosmologist, will be interred next to the grave of Sir Isaac Newton at Westminster Abbey. [The New York Times] • In the U.S., a portrait emerged of the bomber who terrorized Austin, Tex., hours after he blew himself up. The police say they found his video confession. [The New York Times]Advertisement• More than 20 people were at the table for President Trump’s meeting with the Saudi crown prince. None were women. [The New York Times]• Bird populations across the French countryside have collapsed by a third over the last 15 years, and scientists say pesticides are to blame. “The situation is catastrophic,” a researcher said. [The Guardian]• Former  President Nicolas Sarkozy of France faces corruption charges in connection with his 2007 election campaign, which is alleged to have received illegal financial support from the Libyan government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. [The New York Times]• Kosovo’s Parliament ratified a border agreement with Montenegro, though opposition lawmakers tried to stop the proceedings by releasing tear gas. [Reuters]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Brighten up the usual salmon dinner with a sauce of capers, scallions, parsley and garlic.• Thinking of going to Brazil? You’ll need this vaccination.• Here’s how to protect your data on Facebook.• Nepal wants to remove 200,000 pounds of trekkers’ garbage in a campaign aimed at “saving the glory of the Everest region.” (They’re going to need more yaks.)• In Germany, a growing number of art museums offer tours for dementia patients, designed to bring stimulation and solace.Advertisement•  A scientist in Australia asked people across the country to mail her fallen feathers, like the ones shown above, so she could map bird movements as the country’s wetlands disappear. The response, she says, has been “really exciting.”On this day in 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Eisenstadt v. Baird that it’s unconstitutional for a state to deny unmarried people access to contraception.The court  ruled in 1965 that state bans on contraceptives for married couples violated their privacy rights. But a few states still restricted access for single people.Bill Baird, an activist, violated one such law in Massachusetts. He appealed his conviction to the Supreme Court, which struck down the law.Justice William Brennan held that the law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment because it discriminated between married and unmarried people.The case became an important precedent in subsequent landmark rulings by the Supreme Court, including its 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized abortion rights, and, more recently, the 2015 decision guaranteeing a right to same-sex marriage.A movie about Mr. Baird’s case is in development. Above, Mr. Baird in 2012.Mr. Baird has continued working as an activist, but his legacy is complicated by what The Times described in 1993 as an “unapologetic zealotry” and a willingness to criticize “even his ideologic allies.” Planned Parenthood once called him an “embarrassment.”Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.AdvertisementCheck out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Tech Fix By                     
 BRIAN X. CHEN
 
MARCH 21, 2018
In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which data from over 50 million Facebook profiles was secretly scraped and mined for voter insights, many Facebook users have decided to delete their accounts — but untangling yourself from a site like Facebook is not as easy as pressing “delete.”In the wake of news that the Facebook data of 50 million people was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm, many users are mulling whether it is time to leave the social network. Even a co-founder of WhatsApp, which Facebook bought for $16 billion in 2014, declared that it was time to delete Facebook.But while deleting your account is as simple as clicking on a few buttons, Facebook may be too ubiquitous to truly quit. For one, it would probably be inaccurate to say you have removed Facebook from your life just by leaving the site. Chances are you still use WhatsApp, the largest messaging app in the world, or Instagram, the most popular photo-sharing app. Facebook owns both.Keep in mind that Facebook isn’t the only company capable of collecting your information. One big culprit: Web trackers, like cookies embedded into websites and their ads. They are everywhere, and they follow your activities from site to site.You can quit Facebook if you simply find no joy in it. But if you’re looking to leave for philosophical reasons concerning privacy, it’s a futile effort. You may be better off tweaking your privacy settings on the site.AdvertisementHere are some answers to questions that many people are posing to The New York Times via social media.AdvertisementWhat are the alternatives to using Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp?There is no real substitute for Facebook if you’re looking for a social network that includes virtually everyone you meet in real life. Social networks are all about the people on them, and Facebook has more than 2 billion monthly users. You could consider Snapchat, which has about 187 million daily users, but it’s a far different experience — you primarily use it to send photos that self-destruct — with an interface that many people find confusing.There are plenty of alternatives to WhatsApp. But they have drawbacks and aren’t as far-reaching as WhatsApp, which has more than 1.5 billion monthly users.Signal is a solid app for secure encrypted messaging — but it is still a young service with a relatively small number of users. You might be able to get hundreds of your friends to join Signal. But chances are you have friends or family in other countries, and WhatsApp is the go-to messaging service internationally. For example, practically every smartphone user in India — more than 200 million people — uses WhatsApp.Another WhatsApp alternative is WeChat, a Chinese messaging app that has about a billion monthly users. But the majority of people on that service are in China. And WeChat faces its own privacy issues because of China’s notorious reputation for mass surveillance. Tencent, the company that runs WeChat, denies that it stores the chat histories of its users. But WeChat users have been arrested over conversations they have had in the app, and chat transcripts have been used as evidence in court proceedings.Instagram, which has more than 800 million monthly users, is also a tough one, giving Facebook a stranglehold on photo sharing. The only real competitor to Instagram is Facebook itself, which has its own photo-sharing features. Remember Flickr? The Yahoo-owned site is the closest thing either has to a competitor, and it’s like a graveyard of people’s digital memories before they abandoned it for Facebook and Instagram.Google Photos is a compelling service, but it is a photo album management tool, not so much a social network.How else do you keep in touch with friends and family? How do you create and discover events? How do you market and manage customer service for your small business? How do you spark and build grass-roots movements?Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook is the one-stop shop to accomplish all those tasks. But if you have the patience, you can juggle multiple apps to cobble together the same experience.AdvertisementMessaging apps are popular for keeping in touch with friends and family — a group chat between family members via text message, for example, is still an efficient way to keep in touch. And sites like MeetUp are designed for hosting and discovering events.As for customer service, many companies use Twitter to engage with their customers and resolve complaints. Yelp, the reviews site for local businesses, is a common place for customers to talk about their experiences, and business owners often engage with people there.For grass-roots movements, a Twitter hashtag might be enough. Recent examples include #metoo, the movement for people to discuss sexual assault, #deleteuber, the campaign to protest Uber last year amid political controversy, and now, there is the movement to #deletefacebook in response to the Cambridge Analytica controversy.What does it mean to delete Facebook? How can you actually delete your account?You can permanently delete your account by clicking a few buttons on Facebook’s website. The company delays deletion for a few days, so do not log back in. Facebook also offers a tool for extracting a copy of your data before deleting your account.After you delete your account, it won’t be recoverable. But there are caveats.Shadows of your digital self would remain on the site. For example, if people uploaded photos of you, those photos will still be there. The conversations you had with friends through Facebook won’t disappear, either.When you delete your account, you are only deleting the media you posted, like your status updates and photos that you uploaded. That’s not going to do much for your privacy, considering that an overwhelming amount of what you do on Facebook involves engaging with other people. All of your friends (and their friends, too) would also have to delete their accounts in order to have any sort of meaningful effect.What other things are you losing access to if you delete Facebook? Why do so many apps require a Facebook login?AdvertisementOne painful part of breaking up with Facebook would be potentially losing access to the many third-party apps and websites that are tied to your account. Over the past decade, many shopping sites and apps teamed up with Facebook to use the company’s login tool, Facebook Login.Facebook Login became popular because it was a good product. By clicking a button, you could sign up for an account with an app or website just by sharing your Facebook account data. That allowed you to skip manually entering details like your name and email address — a process that is especially cumbersome on a small smartphone screen. This sped up the process of signing up for an account to buy that pair of shoes you saw go on sale.If you were to delete Facebook, you would break your access to many sites and apps that you signed up for using Facebook Login. But fortunately, many sites and apps still let you sign up for accounts directly through them, and many also let you log in through your Google account.It’s not impossible to delete Facebook. But it would be a long and tedious process to create new accounts for all the apps and sites you use.Where does Facebook really equal the internet?Keep in mind that Facebook reaches well beyond the United States. As my colleague Sheera Frenkel noted on Twitter, deleting Facebook is a privilege. In some parts of the world, like Myanmar, Egypt and Indonesia, people rely on Facebook as a primary means to conduct business and stay in touch with friends and family. In Africa, Facebook has struck deals that offer basic services — centered on those provided by Facebook — to residents for free.Brian X. Chen, our lead consumer technology reporter, writes about solving tech-related problems like sluggish Wi-Fi, poor smartphone battery life and the complexity of taking your smartphone abroad. What frustrates you about your tech? Send your suggestions for future Tech Fix columns to brian.chen@nytimes.com.A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 2018, on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: Want to #DeleteFacebook? Well, You Can Try.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By GARDINER HARRISMARCH 21, 2018
VIENNA — As they gathered last week, perhaps for the last time, diplomats from countries that brokered the Iran nuclear accord publicly and uniformly declared it was working — despite a death watch over the deal in Washington.But behind the closed doors of the chandeliered room, complaints spilled forth about President Trump’s threats to tear up the agreement.Iranian envoys said the warnings from Washington had scared away investors who had been expected to bolster the country’s economy after the deal was negotiated in 2015, according to participants. The American delegation countered that though the deal had effectively limited Tehran’s nuclear program, it had failed to curb Iran’s support for regional terrorism.And when he emerged from the meeting, Brian H. Hook, the chief American representative to the talks, called the nuclear issue “important — but it is just one aspect of the threats from the Iranian regime.”AdvertisementThat has been the mantra of the Trump administration as it threatens to withdraw the United States from the accord, which the Obama administration and other world powers negotiated with Iran. Without new restrictions on Iran’s ballistic missile programs and nuclear fuel production by May 12, Mr. Trump has warned that the United States will impose harsh sanctions against the country — and, in doing so, scuttle the agreement for other powers that still support it.AdvertisementHoping to avoid that, European diplomats have signaled that they might support an addendum to the 2015 agreement to enforce new limits on Iran’s intercontinental ballistic missile development and testing.At the center of the negotiations sits Mr. Hook, whom European diplomats believe may represent the best shot at keeping the nuclear deal alive.Over meals of schnitzel and schnapps in Vienna, his team sought to bridge the gap between European concerns and Mr. Trump’s demands. It is a precarious balance for the earnest Midwestern political junkie who served as a senior policy adviser to Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson — before the top American diplomat was fired via presidential Twitter post last week, three days before the talks opened here.“We are taking things one week at a time,” Mr. Hook, the only aide close to Mr. Tillerson who survived the State Department purge, told reporters on Friday of talks with his European counterparts. “We are having very good discussions.”European diplomats agreed. Envoys from Britain, France, Germany and policy officials representing the European Union helped negotiate the original deal, in part to improve security for their respective countries. But they share the Trump administration’s concerns about Iran’s activities in Syria, Yemen and elsewhere in the Middle East, which they said should be discouraged.At least some European officials left Vienna believing that the United States still wants the nuclear accord to survive.“All parties recommitted to the full implementation of the agreement,” Federica Mogherini, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, told reporters on Monday in Brussels. “It’s, for us, a matter of security for Europe and for the rest of the world.”AdvertisementAbbas Araghchi, Iran’s deputy foreign minister, also said the American delegation that Mr. Hook led in Vienna “indicated that they are committed.”Mr. Araghchi added, “As long as there is no new instruction out there, or no new decision at the top level.”But the clock is ticking and the odds are long.Mr. Trump has called the deal “the worst ever.” Mike Pompeo, whom the White House has nominated as the next secretary of state, has said he wants it scrapped. And Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, predicted Sunday that Mr. Trump would soon cast it aside.For weeks, under Mr. Tillerson’s direction, Mr. Hook has traveled to European capitals to convince his counterparts that the proposed addendum might save the entire Iran deal.Back in Washington, he also helped formulate much of the Trump administration’s foreign policy and wrote many of Mr. Tillerson’s most important speeches, including a proposal that India join an alliance with the United States, Japan and Australia — a proposal the allies so far have politely dismissed.But Mr. Hook has never been known in global policy circles for his in-depth knowledge of foreign governments and cultures or for his grand strategic ideas. He has largely relied on sharp political instincts and easy mannerisms to foster American diplomacy abroad.The son of a banker and grandson of a newspaper publisher, Mr. Hook was raised in one of the most prominent families in Bettendorf, Iowa. He grew up so enamored by the conservative intellectual William F. Buckley’s command of language that he covered the headboard of the bed in his college dormitory room with sticky notes on which he had written obscure English words.After graduating with a bachelor’s degree in marketing from the University of St. Thomas in Minnesota, Mr. Hook worked for a Republican congressman from Iowa and Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, also a Republican, before studying and practicing law. He returned to government during President George W. Bush’s administration, working on Iran issues as a political appointee at the State Department and rising to the level of assistant secretary of state.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.When President Barack Obama was in office, Mr. Hook helped found the John Hay Initiative, a volunteer network of hundreds of conservative foreign policy, defense and intelligence experts. It represented the heart of the Republican establishment, and many of its members joined the “Never Trump” bandwagon during the 2016 presidential campaign.AdvertisementThose members disqualified themselves from serving in the Trump administration, but Mr. Hook did not sign on. So when Mr. Tillerson called, Mr. Hook did not hesitate to rejoin the government.“In campaigns, no policy group creates the kinds of divisive, bitter drama that foreign policy experts bring about. Not education, not economics, nothing else comes close,” said Matt Rhoades, who managed the campaign of Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential nominee in 2012. Mr. Hook served on that campaign as an adviser.“But Brian brought together hundreds of these people and got them collaborating,” Mr. Rhoades said.It is precisely this quality that European negotiators hope Mr. Hook can employ for the Iran deal. Representatives for the United States and Europe have mostly agreed on a set of penalties they would impose if Iran develops an intercontinental ballistic missile — a weapon that the Western negotiators agree is useful only to carry nuclear payloads.But they remain far apart on how to deal with provisions in the accord that currently allow Iran to resume some civil nuclear activities in 2025 and 2030. Washington wants to shut down those activities permanently; the Europeans believe this would renege the terms of the deal. Bridging this disagreement — over what is known as the deal’s sunset provisions — is Mr. Hook’s top goal in his continuing talks.Mark Dubowitz, who is advising the Trump administration on how to harden the accord, said there was no room for negotiation on this issue.“On sunsets, I think there can be no compromise,” said Mr. Dubowitz, the chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. “They have to be eliminated.”Even if the United States and Europe find a middle ground to keep the agreement in place — but extend it with new conditions — there is no guarantee that Iran, Russia and China will approve it, as they did the original deal.AdvertisementPresident Hassan Rouhani of Iran has ruled out revisiting its terms, warning that Tehran might resume uranium enrichment if the United States withdraws from the accord, scuttling it for the other world powers.American officials in Vienna for the talks pointed to the Western sanctions that crippled Iran’s economy during the Obama administration as proof that it is the United States and Europe — and not Russia and China — that can force Tehran to comply with the new demands.European diplomats who were there disagreed. They worried that Iran could worsen an already unstable situation in the Middle East were it to restart its nuclear program now, relying in part on trade with Russia, China and countries that did not negotiate the accord.Still, the seriousness of the negotiations among the parties has fostered hope. A crucial moment will come in late April, when President Emmanuel Macron of France visits Washington.For Mr. Hook, the negotiations could be either a capstone or an end to his tenure in the Trump administration.On Tuesday, the president sounded an ominous tone in chastising Iran for behavior that he described as inappropriate.“A lot of bad things are happening in Iran,” Mr. Trump said, sitting in the Oval Office next to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, one of Iran’s regional rivals. “The deal is coming up in one month, and you will see what happens.”A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Taking Talks ‘One Week at a Time’ on the Iran Nuclear Deal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ANDY NEWMANMARCH 23, 2018
Gary Lincoff, a self-taught mycologist whose contagious enthusiasm turned him into a pied piper of mushrooms, died on March 16 in Manhattan. He was 75.His family said he died after a stroke.Mr. Lincoff, a philosophy major and law-school dropout, wrote a field guide to North American mushrooms that sold more than a half-million copies. He led mushroom hunts as far afield as Siberia, India and the Amazon and as near to his home as Central Park, two blocks away, where over the course of decades he counted more than 400 species.Mr. Lincoff taught for more than 40 years at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx and instructed Martha Stewart on dredging puffballs in panko bread crumbs to bring out their flavor. He wrote peer-reviewed journal articles and poems and songs about mushrooms, and helped found the countercultural science and fun fair in Colorado known as the Telluride Mushroom Festival.He was a fungus fanatic who championed the mushroom as food, medicine, soil decontaminator, psychotropic portal and essential link in the eternal cycle of decay and rebirth.Advertisement“Just to name mushrooms — after a while it gets sort of boring,” he told an interviewer in 2015. “To know what these mushrooms are doing, that drives me. That keeps me thinking. Every plant I see, every tree I see, I know that there are mushrooms totally involved in the health of those trees.”AdvertisementMr. Lincoff loved exotic fantastical-looking mushrooms with names like violet-branched coral and eyelash cup and bearded tooth and wolf’s-milk slime, and he loved nondescript little brown blots that sprouted on dead sticks. He was often asked which mushroom was his favorite, and he invariably replied, “The one that’s in front of me right now.”“He inspired literally thousands of people to overcome their fear of fungi,” said Paul Stamets, another member of the tiny cohort of celebrity mycologists. “No matter how dumb your question was, he never humiliated you, he never put you down. He never believed there was such a thing as a stupid question.”Gary Henry Lincoff was born on Oct. 3, 1942, in Pittsburgh to Leonard Lincoff, an optometrist, and the former Bette Forman. He graduated from the University of Pittsburgh in 1963 with a bachelor’s in philosophy, a passion for Thoreau and an unfulfilled sense of purpose.He left law school at George Washington University because “he didn’t admire his professors,” his wife, Irene Liberman, said. She met him in 1967, when he was doing graduate work in English literature in Pittsburgh.In addition to Ms. Liberman, a graphic designer, Mr. Lincoff is survived by their son, Noah, and a younger brother, Bennett.The couple moved to New York in 1968, and Mr. Lincoff set out to write a novel about a draft dodger who waits out the Vietnam War living in Central Park. In his research he got hung up on a question: What would the protagonist eat?“I took six months off to learn everything there was to know about survival in the city — wild foodwise,” Mr. Lincoff told The New York Times in 1978. “I began to see that every tree, every weed, wasn’t alike. I got into minutiae.”AdvertisementHe and Ms. Liberman led forays to gather edible plants for suppers of acorn burgers, pokeweed shoots and Juneberry pies. In 1971, the couple went on their first walk with the New York Mycological Society. “I said, ‘Let’s promise not to eat anything,’ and we ate nine wild mushrooms that day,” Ms. Liberman recalled. Mr. Lincoff had found his calling.He steeped himself in mushroom studies and eventually persuaded the New York Botanical Garden to let him teach despite his lack of formal credentials. In 1978, he published a book on toxic and hallucinogenic mushroom poisoning and was soon recruited to write the National Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Mushrooms, which was published in 1981 and is in its 31st printing. He served for nine years as president of the North American Mycological Association.(Mr. Lincoff had never tried hallucinogenic mushrooms when he wrote the poisoning book, Ms. Liberman said, but when he finally did, in the 1980s, “He was delighted.” At least once, he found the hallucinogen Gymnopilus junonius, known as “laughing gym,” in his beloved Central Park. “I came out of the park with a big cluster of it and I walked smack into three cops,” he said. “I thought, ‘This is it.’ But they just said, ‘You better be careful if you don’t know those.’ I said, ‘I’m going to take these back and study them.’ ”)Mr. Lincoff helped found the Telluride Mushroom Festival in 1981. It was conceived by a Denver radiologist and mushroom-lover, Emanuel Salzman, as an alternative to stuffier mycological conferences.“We had an ‘Edibility Unknown’ party every year that would horrify serious professional mycologists,” said the alternative-medicine guru Dr. Andrew Weil, another festival co-founder. No one ever got sick, Dr. Weil said, though the pioneers discovered that one species tasted like old tires.Mr. Lincoff was in demand as a tour leader and headed expeditions to more than 30 countries, on every continent except Antarctica. When he was back in New York, he served as lecture coordinator and animating presence of the New York Mycological Society. Three years ago, he decided that unlike other mushroom clubs, the society should hold walks year round.This past New Year’s Day, with the mercury around 10 degrees, he led a walk in Central Park.“We walked for two hours and found almost 50 species,” said Vivien Tartter, one of Mr. Lincoff’s many acolytes. Someone found a cluster of Eutypella scoparia — tiny hairlike tufts too small to be seen without a loupe — growing on a twig. “Gary was very excited.”Follow Andy Newman on Twitter @andylocalWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHARLES McDERMIDMARCH 21, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A new Communist takeover, Boris Johnson’s Hitler comment, and Mark Zuckerberg’s highly anticipated moment. Here’s what you need to know: • Party power.China issued a blueprint for shaking up its bureaucracy that vastly increases the Communist Party’s control over government and culture.The plan empowers party panels to shape policy on reform, cybersecurity, economics, finance and foreign affairs. And it merges state-run radio and television broadcasters into a “Voice of China” conglomerate answering to the party’s Department of Propaganda, which will also control film, books and magazines.This week, Shanghai briefly detained and then returned a Chinese-born Australian, John Hugh, who has been sharply critical of the party’s efforts to influence Australian politics._____• A three-way summit meeting?President Moon Jae-in of South Korea floated the possibility of joining the planned meeting of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump in May, which he said would be “a momentous event in world history.”AdvertisementMr. Moon and Mr. Kim are planning to meet in late April at Panmunjom, the “truce village” that straddles the Demilitarized Zone between the two Koreas.AdvertisementSome South Korean news outlets interpreted Mr. Moon’s remarks as indicating that he wanted the summit meeting to be held there, too — affording his government great optics._____• He blew himself up as the police closed in.Mark Anthony Conditt, 23, a suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the city of Austin, Tex., died early this morning by detonating an explosive in his vehicle.In a blog about his political views created for a college class, he described himself as a conservative and argued against same-sex marriage and sex offender registries and in favor of the death penalty. Here’s what we know about him._____• Tensions between Britain and Russia hit a new peak.Boris Johnson, the top British diplomat, told Parliament that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, would use the World Cup this summer as a propaganda tool, much as Hitler did with the 1936 Olympic Games.In Moscow, the Russian Foreign Ministry summoned foreign diplomats to suggest Britain itself may have been responsible for poisoning a former Russian double agent and his daughter with a nerve agent. (The British ambassador did not attend.)_____• In the U.S., Republican lawmakers are among those faulting President Trump for congratulating Vladimir Putin on winning election to a fourth six-year term to lead Russia.The immediate leak of their conversation signals the depth of frustration inside the White House. Only a small circle would know of the content of the leaders’ conversation on Tuesday or could have revealed the existence of a briefing card cautioning Mr. Trump: “DO NOT CONGRATULATE.”AdvertisementAn analyst left Fox News with a searing farewell, accusing it of becoming “a mere propaganda machine for a destructive and ethically ruinous administration.”_____• “We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it.”Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, above with Sheryl Sandberg in 2012, responded publicly (via Facebook) to the growing crisis over reports that outside companies harvested data on millions of users.He said the company would crack down on outside apps and bolster privacy. Facebook has lost about $50 billion in market value since the reports were published, and a growing numbers of users are considering deleting their accounts.On “The Daily,” we talk to one of our reporters who broke the story, and discuss how a key data scientist at Cambridge Analytica became a whistleblower.• The U.S. Federal Reserve  raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Under a new chairman, Jerome Powell, it signaled two more increases this year.• Toyota suspended tests of self-driving vehicles on public roads so it could “assess the situation” after an autonomous Uber vehicle fatally struck a pedestrian on Sunday in Arizona.• Shares of Crown Resorts slipped after James Packer, the Australian billionaire enmeshed in an Israeli corruption scandal, resigned as director of that huge casino company to deal with “mental health issues.”• This year’s Turing Award, often called the Nobel Prize of computing, went to Dave Patterson and John Hennessy for their visionary influence on computer chip design.Advertisement• Our technology reporter in Mumbai explains how cheap mobile data is changing India, and why WhatsApp is indispensable.• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• In Afghanistan, a suicide bomber killed at least 31 people among a crowd in Kabul celebrating Nowruz, the Persian New Year. [The New York Times]• The ailing president of Myanmar, Htin Kyaw, resigned. Parliament is expected to rapidly choose a successor who will allow Aung San Suu Kyi, officially a state counselor, to continue to exert power. [The Guardian]• A U.S. State Department official said American policy would continue “to ensure that Taiwan’s people can continue along their chosen path, free from coercion,” shrugging off a threat from China. [The New York Times]• Tributes are pouring in for Kak Channthy, 38, the lead singer of the Cambodian Space Project, who was killed Tuesday in a traffic accident in Phnom Penh. (Watch one of the band’s performances.) [The Phnom Penh Post]• Space junk is a problem. A team of Australian scientists wants to use powerful ground-based lasers to shoot it away. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Thinking of going to Brazil? You’ll need this vaccination.• Here’s how to protect your data on Facebook.• Recipe of the day: Brighten up the usual salmon dinner with a sauce of capers, scallions, parsley and garlic.Advertisement• Thoughtful feathers: An scientist in Sydney implored people across the country to mail her fallen feathers so she could map bird movements as the country’s wetlands disappear. The response, she says, has been “really exciting.”• Nepal wants to remove 200,000 pounds of trekkers’ garbage in a campaign aimed at “saving the glory of the Everest region.” (They’re going to need more yaks.)• And  15 years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times reintroduces At War, a forum on global conflict that evolved from a renegade blog. The first essay is the tale of a U.S. Marine who led tanks into Baghdad.On this day in 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Eisenstadt v. Baird that it’s unconstitutional for a state to deny unmarried people access to contraception.The court had ruled in 1965 that state bans on contraceptives for married couples violated their privacy rights. But a few states still restricted access for single people.Bill Baird, an activist, violated one such law in Massachusetts. He appealed his conviction to the Supreme Court, which struck down the law.Justice William Brennan held that the law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment because it discriminated between married and unmarried people.The case became an important precedent in subsequent landmark rulings by the Supreme Court, including its 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized abortion rights, and, more recently, the 2015 decision guaranteeing a right to same-sex marriage.AdvertisementA movie about Mr. Baird’s case is in development. Above, Mr. Baird in 2012.Mr. Baird has continued working as an activist, but his legacy is complicated by what The Times described in 1993 as an “unapologetic zealotry” and a willingness to criticize “even his ideologic allies.” Planned Parenthood once called him an “embarrassment.”Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MARC SANTORAMARCH 20, 2018
GEVGELIJA, Macedonia — From the time he was a high school student and made his first discovery — graves dating to the Iron Age and coins 3,000 years old — Emil Slamkov said he wanted to be an archaeologist.“For me, it is a chance to discover what the earth is hiding,” he said. “And then to try and find a way to bring it back to life and give meaning to what came before.”In the Balkans, however, giving meaning to the past can be a fraught business.In recent years, Mr. Slamkov, 52, has found his skills in demand as the government has poured money into excavating ancient sites with a single goal: finding connections to ancient Macedonia to add legitimacy to its claim on the name.It is not an academic question. For more than two decades, this country of just two million people has been fighting with its southern neighbor Greece over the right to have Macedonia in its name.AdvertisementNow the issue has come to the fore again, as Macedonia’s government earnestly renews a push to join NATO and the European Union, hoping to alleviate the Balkan country’s poverty and isolation.AdvertisementGreece has blocked Macedonia from joining either institution, claiming that the name implies designs on Greece’s northern region of Macedonia.50 milesSerbiaKosovoBulgariaSkopjeMacedonia(FYROM)GevgelijaAlbaniaGreeceMARCH 14, 2018
A solution may be closer that it has been in decades, with the Greek foreign minister scheduled to visit the Macedonian capital, Skopje, later this week to continue negotiations.Last week, the United States Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs told journalists in Skopje that conditions for reaching a compromise were “better than they have ever been.”Still, it is a delicate moment. Mere word of possible compromise set off protests by thousands in Greece in recent months. If not handled properly, the issue has the potential to tear apart the fragile governing coalitions in both nations.Those who want a solution fear that outside actors who do not want to see the expansion of NATO, namely Russia, are stoking opposition to compromise.Russia recently warned Macedonia that its entry into NATO “might have negative consequences for regional security and bilateral relations.”Even without outside agitation, the name issue has long been used to stir anger and resentment in both Greece and Macedonia, as it touches on questions of identity, history and culture.For the European Union, which was founded in part to overcome tribal identity politics and unbridled nationalism, a solution could present a bit of good news as it faces a host of other difficult challenges in the region.AdvertisementBut failure could leave it with yet one more festering source of tension in the Balkans.To appease Greece, the Macedonians have altered their Constitution, changed their flag — getting rid of the Vergina Sun that Greece claims as its own — and changed their name once to its current United Nations designation: the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.Even Mr. Slamkov, fiercely proud of his heritage, is willing to find further compromise. Up to a point.He does not care what name politicians come up with for use outside the country — as long as it includes the word Macedonia.Standing amid the ruins of one of the country’s most important dig sites, a few miles from the Greek border, where his team found a trove of coins stamped with the visage of Alexander the Great, he said that, like the artifacts in the ground, some things are just what they are.“No one,” he said, “can tell you what to call yourself in your own home.”The roots of the name dispute are as tangled as the finely woven silver jewelry for which this region is famous.For some, it stretches back to fourth century B.C., when Philip II and his son Alexander the Great conquered much of the known world, establishing a kingdom that stretched from the Mediterranean to India.Both governments lay claim to this history. For the Greeks, it is obvious: Philip and Alexander were born and based in what is now Greece.AdvertisementFor the Macedonians, it is equally obvious: The ancient Macedonian kingdom encompassed a large swath of the country. It is the name they have always called themselves.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Milan Boshkoski, a professor at the Institute of National History in Skopje, said that to understand the dispute, it was best to start during the period when the Ottomans ruled this territory — for around 500 years until the turn of the 20th century.While researching a book about the history of the name Macedonia, he said, he found a document dating to 1902 that forbid the use of the term Macedonian. At the time, the Ottoman rulers were battling nationalists, and they worried that the name would give the rebels a sense of identity.“It is a story that repeats itself,” he said. “But if an atom bomb destroyed this place, we would still be called Macedonians.”The first Balkan wars ended in 1913 with Macedonia divided by three of the warring parties — Greece, Serbia and Bulgaria.The Serbian enclave was later absorbed into the former Yugoslavia. But even then, the professor said, in a concession to the Greeks, textbooks excluded nearly all discussion of the ancient Macedonian kingdom.The bad blood grew during the Greek civil war, when Slavic-speaking Macedonians sided with Greek Communists. In 1948, after they were defeated, many were expelled from northern Greece.Some Greeks have expressed concern that if this country is allowed to call itself Macedonia, the families of those expelled will seek restitution.After Macedonia became an independent republic in 1991, following the break up of Yugoslavia, the Greeks immediately opposed international recognition of the new country.AdvertisementIn 1995, a compromise was reached when the country agreed to temporarily call itself the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. It also changed the Constitution to make it clear it had no territorial ambitions.Still, the Greeks are not satisfied with the changes.Politicians in Greece still refer to the country almost exclusively by its acronym, FYROM, or by the capital city, Skopje.In recent months, with a new center-left government in Macedonia, relations between the two countries have improved. For the first time in a decade, there is cautious optimism.“I believe we will be able to conclude the negotiations successfully by the NATO summit in July,” the Macedonian prime minister, Zoran Zaev, said in a recent interview with an Austrian radio station.But the renewed talk of a possible deal has fueled protests among Greeks, who have their own narrative on the history of the name.Western diplomats also say the opposition has been stoked by an aggressive disinformation campaign by Russia, which does not want to see NATO expanded, and they believe the Kremlin is working to undermine a deal.For instance, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras of Greece recently noted in an interview that in ancient times there was no nation known as Macedonia.His words were quickly distorted across the internet — starting with a website with ties Russia, according to a Western diplomat — so it seemed he had suggested that there had never been any country called Macedonia, an inaccurate and far more inflammatory comment.“It is really difficult to be rational about this issue,” Macedonia’s foreign affairs minister, Nikola Dimitrov, said in an interview in his office in Skopje. “This is something I have to fight daily, even for myself.”AdvertisementBut this is bigger than the politics of the moment, he said.“Macedonia has been locked in the waiting room,” he said, referring to its desire to be a part of NATO and the European Union. “I think it is fair to say we have lost a generation because of this issue.”An earlier version of this article gave the incorrect year in which Macedonia agreed to temporarily call itself the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. That compromise was reached in 1995, not 1993.Aleksandar Dimoshkovski contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 21, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s in a Name? For Macedonia, Peace and Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KAREN ZRAICK and LANCE BOOTHMARCH 18, 2018
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. A firm tied to the Trump campaign used private information — including contacts and “likes” — harvested from the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users without their permission.The Times teamed up with The Observer of London for the investigation into Cambridge Analytica, a voter-profiling company bankrolled by conservative investors that worked on the 2016 Trump campaign. Above, Christopher Wylie, who helped found the company and worked there until 2014.Facebook banned the firm after we started asking about its practices; the firm, which paid an outside researcher for the data, is facing scrutiny from investigators and lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic.Our news quiz will return next week. In the meantime, try our health news quiz or our copy editing quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper.____2. Other comings and goings in Washington:Andrew McCabe, above, who was fired as F.B.I. deputy director days before his retirement, kept contemporaneous memos on his interactions with President Trump and his former boss, James Comey. Mr. McCabe was among the first officials to scrutinize the possible links between Russia and the Trump team and came under repeated attack from Mr. Trump.AdvertisementWith Rex Tillerson out as secretary of state, the C.I.A. is taking the lead on planning for talks with North Korea. The agency’s director, Mike Pompeo, is set to succeed Mr. Tillerson.AdvertisementThere were rumors that the president would fire other members of his cabinet, but they didn’t materialize. Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, made it known that he’d be ready to replace Attorney General Jeff Sessions should the position open.____3. President Trump boasted that he insisted to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, above, that the U.S. runs a trade deficit with his country — without knowing whether that was true.Our White House correspondent says the episode goes to the heart of a fundamental debate about Mr. Trump: When does he know the things he says are false and when is he simply misinformed?And Mr. Trump’s lawyers filed court papers claiming that Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic film actress who alleges she had an affair with him, could be liable for $20 million in damages for violating a nondisclosure pact.____4. Just hours before a pedestrian bridge collapsed in Miami on Thursday, the company that engineered it told university officials a crack had not compromised its structural integrity.At least six people were killed when the newly installed bridge, intended to connect Florida International University and the city of Sweetwater, collapsed onto the roadway below. It had not yet opened to the public.We talked to people who saw the bridge come down and looked at how it was built, using a method called accelerated construction.Advertisement____5. Russia goes to the polls on Sunday, and Vladimir Putin is expected to win a fourth presidential term by a wide margin. The question is how high turnout will be. Above, a campaign billboard.Meanwhile, the diplomatic crisis over the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain intensified.Britain’s foreign minister, Boris Johnson, said it was “overwhelmingly likely” that Mr. Putin had personally ordered the attack, which was carried out using a military-grade nerve agent. After Britain ordered 23 Russian diplomats to leave, Moscow responded in kind.____6. A $100 million federal study is now underway that could provide medical evidence needed to recommend a daily alcoholic drink as part of a healthy lifestyle. (Above, a happy drinker in Philadelphia in 1907.)And alcohol companies are paying for most of it, through donations to a private foundation that raises money for the National Institutes of Health.Using a Freedom of Information Act request, we obtained documents showing that the institute waged a vigorous campaign to court the alcohol industry. It even paid for scientists to travel to meetings with executives, where they gave talks strongly suggesting that the study’s results would endorse moderate drinking as healthy.____7. March Madness saw the ultimate upset.A No. 16 seed — the Retrievers of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County — beat the top-seeded Virginia Cavaliers, 74-54, on Friday.Our college sports reporter said the defeat was a long time coming. “The Retrievers played on the vulnerabilities Virginia had all along, and that had made many doubt whether the Cavaliers could truly make a deep tournament run,” he wrote.U.M.B.C. is better known for academics than for team sports. “The symbolism of last night is that my young men went out there to be the best that they can be, and believed in themselves, against all odds,” its president said.Advertisement____8. Tuesday is the vernal equinox in the Northern Hemisphere, otherwise known as the first day of spring.In this season, our minds turn to preparations for summer. And while some of us might grimace thinking of that lapsed gym membership, imagine what hibernating animals go through.Here’s a look at what black bears, bees and other creatures do when they wake from winter’s long slumber.____9. “Saturday Night Live” addressed the spate of departures in the Trump administration as well as a poorly received “60 Minutes” interview given by Education Secretary Betsy DeVos.Kate McKinnon, above, appeared as Ms. DeVos, saying, “Look, I may not be very good on camera, but behind the scenes, my ideas are much worse.”____10. Finally, in memoriam: Stephen Hawking, the physicist and author whose mind soared past physical paralysis and changed our understanding of the universe. He was 76. Above, a beach in India.Looking for something else to read? Check out this week’s list of New York Times best sellers.New on the hardcover fiction list are adaptations of “The Shape of Water” and “Star Wars: The Last Jedi.” The directors Guillermo del Toro and Rian Johnson were involved with the writing of their respective films’ books.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAVA SOBELMARCH 19, 2018
A LAB OF ONE’S OWN Science and Suffrage in the First World War By Patricia Fara 334 pp. Oxford University Press. $24.95.BROAD BAND The Untold Story of the Women Who Made the Internet By Claire L. Evans 278 pp. Portfolio/Penguin. $27.A woman scientist was such a rarity in early 20th-century Britain that other women could not conceal their surprise at encountering one. Even the eminent suffragist Emmeline Pankhurst, when seated next to a female engineer at a formal dinner, was heard to exclaim, “But surely that’s a very unsuitable occupation for a lady, isn’t it?”The nation that employed two million women as domestic servants in 1900 counted 200 female doctors and two female architects. The Great War upset that imbalance. By the time the war ended, almost a million British women were carrying out chemical work in munitions factories, while others were synthesizing medicines, developing antiaircraft systems and code-breaking in naval intelligence. As Patricia Fara recounts in “A Lab of One’s Own,” however, many wartime advances in women’s employment were rolled back soon after the Armistice.AdvertisementFara, who studied physics at Oxford, did not venture lightly into writing about suffrage and science. Her first book-length biographies focused on Isaac Newton, Carl Linnaeus and Joseph Banks, but her research must have convinced her that there were many women toiling — anonymously and sometimes secretly — alongside such famous men.Advertisement“A Lab of One’s Own” is an engrossing, exciting tale of uncelebrated scientists who innovated and experimented against a background of grand historical events. The numerous heroines named in its pages, many of whom come and go with only a brief mention, challenge the reader to keep track. Yet their very multitude underscores Fara’s underlying argument that there is nothing unusual about a feminine engagement with science. The love of botany, the passion for chemistry, the fascination with geology or cosmology is just as likely to animate a girl’s mind as a boy’s. If only her parents, her circumstances and the cultural norms of her country will answer her interest with education and opportunity, any girl may aspire to a lab of her own.For all Fara’s erudition and scholarship, not to mention her description of herself as a “pernickety academic” at Clare College, Cambridge, she writes without a trace of stuffiness. She also avoids whining about chances missed or credit denied. With the same refreshing approach to perceived injustice that she displayed in earlier books like “Pandora’s Breeches” and “Science: A Four Thousand Year History,” Fara bends her talents to a sprightly telling of what happened: “At Imperial College London, during the First World War, Muriel Baker — wife of the professor of inorganic chemistry — was isolated at home in a small laboratory where she experimented on using stockings stuffed with cotton wool to absorb poisonous gases.”Among the women Fara singles out for chapter-length treatment, Dr. Isabel Emslie Hutton led a particularly eventful life. “Taught by her parents to give away all but one of her Christmas presents on New Year’s Day, she committed herself to medicine at the age of 17, renouncing with the dedication of a nun all thoughts of marriage.” Eventually she did marry Maj. Thomas Hutton, but not before working as a pathologist in a Scottish mental hospital, carrying out research into chemical tests for syphilis, selling experimental guinea pigs to laboratories throughout Scotland and seeing in the outbreak of World War I the opportunity to practice surgery, “her favorite specialty but one normally reserved for men.”Upon arrival in Salonika in October 1915, Emslie and her female colleagues “built incinerators, dug latrines, erected tents, installed X-ray equipment and set up a dispensary in a disused silkworm factory.” She operated on wounded soldiers in a wooden hut.Military invasions and outbreaks of malaria kept Emslie moving from one field hospital to another — even serving as a commanding officer — all the way until the end of the war. Even then she stayed on in the region for two more years to treat civilian surgical patients in Serbia and children in Sebastopol.Despite Emslie’s distinguished war record, her marriage in 1921 disqualified her from future employment as a surgeon in Britain. Resuming a prior interest, she served three decades as honorary consultant psychiatrist at the British Hospital for Mental and Nervous Disorders in Camden, “playing a key role in the introduction of psychoanalysis to Britain.” At the same time she campaigned for equal pay for women doctors and helped women achieve international pilot’s licenses by demonstrating that they were not “incapable of flying during periods and pregnancies.” When her husband was posted to India she gave up her own career to follow him. “Trapped there during the Second World War,” Isabel Emslie Hutton became director of the Indian Red Cross.“A Lab of One’s Own,” with its title salute to Virginia Woolf, is primarily an English war story. “Broad Band,” in contrast, mostly takes place in the United States of the 1940s through the 1990s, and is peopled predominantly with all-American girls wanting, as Time magazine once quipped, “a ROM of their own.”The author, Claire L. Evans, has met and managed to interview most of the principals in this recent history of technology. Her familiarity puts the reader on a first-name basis with all of them, as well as with two important predecessors — Ada (Countess of Lovelace, generally considered the world’s first programmer) and Grace (Admiral Hopper, the Navy’s much decorated queen of software).AdvertisementEvans proves a companionable guide for a tour through cyberspace. An insightful, intelligent observer, she speaks fluent tech lingo, has written about science and sci-fi for the likes of Vice and Wired, and also sings in a pop group.“When we say the words ‘internet’ and ‘web,’” Evans writes, “we often mean the same thing: the force, larger than nature, that emanates from our screens.” But the internet predates the web by decades. It harks back to the time when folks “dialed directly into each other’s machines and into host computers to exchange files and post messages” in text-only format. “Many of these ad hoc networks interacted with, and eventually coalesced with, the infrastructure of the internet,” a map of which today “is a tensile, crazy, fractal thing” akin to “a beating heart, a web of synapses, a supernova.” The World Wide Web sits atop the internet, functioning as “a network of interconnected visual pages built in a shared language called HTML … structured pages of text, images and video dotted with clickable links connecting individual points to one another. Those connections don’t just influence how we navigate the web … but how we communicate with one another, and ultimately how we understand the world.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The women pioneers who penetrated the mostly male domain of early computing did not always fit the geek mold. When Radia Perlman, for example, enrolled in her first programming course as a high school student in the 1960s (and many more courses later as an odd-woman-out at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology), she discovered that her classmates had been dismantling radios and other electronics from a tender age. “I never took anything apart,” she told Evans. “I would have assumed I would break it or get electrocuted.” Nevertheless, Evans reports, Perlman invented a protocol for moving information that is now fundamental to the way computers are networked. “Her work might be invisible to the everyday user, but it’s invisible in the way that laws are invisible or the rules of traffic in a busy city are invisible: It directs the flow of information at a layer beyond our conscious awareness.”Such contributions embolden Evans to declare, with emphasis: “Even when women were invisible, it never means they weren’t there.”It is tempting to think these unsung female presences of the past paved the way for today’s women scientists. In fact they did not. They filled particular niches that opened briefly before closing again, leaving scant evidence, let alone a path to follow. Most people struggle to name even one woman scientist (usually Marie Curie).Both “A Lab of One’s Own” and “Broad Band” — along with numerous other recent titles like “Hidden Figures,” by Margot Lee Shetterly — provide much needed perspective, along with presumed-absent foremothers and role models. As a genre, these true stories constitute a chorus of voices all saying the same thing: “Yes, Virginia, there are women who do science.”Dava Sobel is the author of “Longitude,” “Galileo’s Daughter” and, most recently, “The Glass Universe.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.A version of this review appears in print on March 25, 2018, on Page BR8 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Beyond Marie Curie.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 7:58 P.M. E.D.T.
AUGUSTA, Ga. —  The Latest on the Masters (all times local):5:25 p.m.Jordan Spieth admittedly felt a little panic last month at the Valspar Championship in Palm Harbor, Florida.Spieth shot a 6-over 76 in the opening round and missed the cut the following day."I made big strides in the last two weeks to get from kind of a panic place to a very calm, collected and confident place," Spieth said two days before the Masters. "It's difficult to do in two weeks. Sometimes it takes years. And I feel like I've been able to speed that process up a lot over the last couple weeks."Spieth believes he got off to a slow start in 2018 partly because he was sick for most of December. Taking a few lengthy flights in January didn't help him recover. He missed the cut in Phoenix in early February and reached a low point — especially with his usually steady putter — in the Tampa Bay area two months later.He says, "You're like, 'What the heck happened?'"The 2015 Masters champion feels like he found his previous form last week at the Houston Open, when he finished tied for third.AdvertisementSpieth says his "iron play and off the tee (have) been fantastic, just like it was last year."He says, "It's just been about just finding the (putting) setup that I had for a couple years that I kind of got a little stiff and away from recently. So settling into that from round one will be important, but I feel like last week was a tremendous stepping stone in the right direction."Advertisement___4:45 p.m.Phil Mickelson agrees with anyone who believes this is the most anticipated Masters in years or decades, maybe even ever.And not just because of Tiger Woods' return.Mickelson, who played a rare practice round with Woods on Tuesday, says "there's a lot of players, a lot of the top quality players, young and old, are playing some of their best golf. I think that's going to lead to one of the most exciting Masters in years."Dustin Johnson, Justin Thomas, Rory McIlroy, Jon Rahm, Justin Rose, Bubba Watson, Jordan Spieth, Jason Day, Woods and Mickelson are among the favorites. Johnson, Thomas, McIlroy, Rahm, Rose, Watson, Day and Mickelson already have won this season.And Woods looks capable of joining them.Even Lefty is cheering for his longtime rival.Mickelson says "nobody respects and appreciates" what Woods has done for the game more than he does "because nobody's benefited from what he's done for the game of golf more than I have."___2:45 p.m.Rory McIlroy knows how significant this Masters could be in terms of golf history.Once again, he's got a shot at the career Grand Slam.The Masters remains the only major championship to elude McIlroy, who has won the U.S. Open, the British Open and the PGA Championship. Only five players have captured all four of the modern major championships, making it one of golf's most exclusive clubs.McIlroy says he needs to "relish the opportunity that's been put in front" of him, and then "go out and grab it."AdvertisementAmazingly enough, McIlroy nearly won his first major at Augusta National in 2011. He led after each of the first three rounds and seemed to be cruising toward the green jacket, only to collapse on the back nine Sunday.McIlroy says that experience made him "a better golfer, a better person." Without the lessons learned that day, he doubts that he would've had so much success.While he hasn't come as close to winning as he did seven years ago, McIlroy has always played well at Augusta National, finishing in the top 10 each of the last four years.He comes into this year's event off a win at Bay Hill, giving him plenty of confidence that this can finally be the year he finally breaks through.___2:30 p.m.Shubhankar Sharma got his first glimpse of childhood hero Tiger Woods at the Masters on Tuesday.Well, sort of."I saw his bag outside the clubhouse with his caddie," Sharma said with a smile.The 21-year-old golfer from India, a rising star on the European Tour, is making his Masters debut and has his sights set on meeting Woods.He first saw him at the Delhi Golf Club in 2014. Sharma, his father and several friends were among the thousands crammed throughout the tight course to watch Woods play an exhibition round."We were pretty much running from one green to another," he said. "It was a great thing. Tiger has been a big inspiration not only to me but to a lot of kids back home, so it was just great to watch him play in person and got to learn a lot."AdvertisementSharma expects to top that feeling this week at Augusta National. And it starts with meeting Woods."Tiger has a different aura about him and just the player that he is and how he dominated the world of golf is something," he said. "It definitely will be a fanboy moment for me when I go and say hi to him."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___1:45 p.m.Tiger Wood calls his comeback "a miracle."Woods is playing the Masters for the first time since 2015, after going through spinal fusion surgery to relieve chronic back pain.The four-time Augusta champion says he doesn't "know anybody who had lower back fusion and can swing the club as fast as I can swing it."After myriad health problems, Woods seems to have his game in order heading into the first major of the year. He's listed as one of the co-favorites, even though the last of his 14 major titles came nearly a decade ago at the U.S. Open.Woods last won the Masters in 2005. He couldn't play the last two years because of back issues, which he describes as "very, very difficult." He watched as much of the tournament as he could on television, but adds that "it's even more fun playing."Woods like his chance this week. In his words, "This is a tournament where it really helps to have experience" and he has "an understanding of how to play this particular golf course."___12:35 p.m.Tiger Woods will tee off at 10:42 a.m. Thursday in the first round of the Masters. Woods will be paired with Marc Leishman and Tommy Fleetwood.Defending champion Sergio Garcia, Justin Thomas and amateur Doc Redman will be in the group behind Woods. Bubba Watson, Henrik Stenson and Jason Day will tee off behind them, creating a star-studded stretch of golf at the year's first major.Phil Mickelson, Rickie Fowler and Matt Kuchar will tee off in the afternoon, at 1:27 p.m.Rory McIlroy, who is going for the career Grand Slam, tees off at 1:38 p.m., followed by 2015 Masters champion Jordan Spieth. World No. 1 Dustin Johnson is in the final group, which tees off at 2 p.m. Johnson had to drop out of the tournament last year after injuring himself in a fall.AdvertisementThe tournament will begin at 8:15 a.m. with ceremonial tee shots from Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player.___12:15 p.m.Lin Yuxin and Joaquin Niemann hope their appearance at Augusta National will help golf become more popular in their home countries.Lin earned his spot at the Masters by capturing the Asia-Pacific Amateur Championship last October, making him one of two players from China in the field. Niemann won the Latin American Amateur title in January in his native Chile."The game in China is just getting bigger and bigger," the 17-year-old Lin said. "I can see a lot of young kids playing, starting to play golf when they are like 5 or 6. ... I can see a bunch of kids on the range every day at practice and, yeah, the game in China is just getting really popular. Everyone seems to enjoy it and they love it."The 19-year-old Niemann said the sport still has some catching up to do in Chile."But there's still a lot of people that play golf that love the Masters," he added. "When I was a child, it was a dream to be here. When I was like 4 or 5 years old, I was watching the Masters on TV. So it feels nice to be here."___11:50 a.m.Justin Thomas no longer gets questions about when he's going to capture his first major title.He took care of that last year at the PGA Championship, which made his news conference Tuesday at Augusta National a lot more pleasant."Not getting questions on a day like today: When do you feel like you're going to get your first major? Or, do you feel like you're one of the best players without a major?" Thomas said. "I was glad to get that over with as quick as I could."AdvertisementThomas is coming off an amazing season that included five victories in all, as well as a FedEx Cup championship. He's off to another stellar start in 2018 with a pair of wins.That makes Thomas one of the players to beat at the first major of the season."When I get in those scenarios or when I have a chance to win a big tournament, or any tournament, I'm able to look back at the PGA Championship and just remember the things that I went through the feelings I felt, the emotions that I had, and just try to kind of learn from that and use it to my advantage," he said.___For more AP golf coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/apf-GolfWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By LAURA CAPPELLEMARCH 15, 2018
PARIS — French and British theater-makers may be just a hop across the English Channel from each other, but in some ways, they live in different worlds. France has long leaned toward the kind of director-led, concept-driven stage fare that many in Britain, raised on the importance of text and naturalistic acting, find vexing.Yet a few British directors have made the jump to Paris and gained a following there, most prominent among them Peter Brook and Declan Donnellan. Both debuted new productions in the French capital this month ahead of international tours; both have found ways to bridge the cultural gap, with work that combines storytelling and a strong directorial voice.Mr. Brook returned to a theater he has long been associated with, the Théâtre des Bouffes du Nord, to present “The Prisoner,” a philosophical tale about punishment and redemption. While the 92-year-old director is beloved in Britain, where he started his career in the 1940s, he has now resided in France for nearly 50 years.In 1974, he discovered the Bouffes du Nord, a dilapidated 19th-century music hall in a less-than-upscale area, which had been closed as a safety measure in 1952. Mr. Brook oversaw its renovation with his theater company, the International Centre for Theatre Research. They preserved its threadbare charm, and while Mr. Brook handed over the reins of his artistic home to Olivier Mantei and Olivier Poubelle in 2008, he has continued to show new work there.Advertisement“The Prisoner,” which is performed in English and was co-written and co-directed by Marie-Hélène Estienne, will feel familiar to admirers of Mr. Brook’s work. Like many of his productions, starting with his epic “Mahabharata” in 1985, it looks to foreign shores for universal lessons and wisdom. Here, the main character, Mavuso (played by the excellent Sri Lankan actor Hiran Abeysekera), kills his father, who had discovered him in an incestuous act with his sister Nadia. (To complicate matters, Nadia was also engaged in a sexual relationship with their father; somewhat creepily, Mavuso tells her: “I love you the way Father loved you.”)AdvertisementWhen Mavuso is imprisoned, his uncle, Ezechiel, a local public figure, arranges to have his sentence commuted to an unusual form of punishment: Mavuso is left outside the doors of a prison, and told to stay there, alone, until he believes he has paid for his crime. “You must keep the prison inside you,” Ezechiel tells him.Nadia and local men visit Mavuso and try to convince him to leave, but the self-enforced ordeal turns into a rite of initiation. Even as the prison is torn down in front of him, a less than subtle metaphor, he persists.The quiet lesson of “The Prisoner” – that redemption can only come from within – feels almost naïve in the messy world of 2018, and that may be the point. Still, the experience of watching it comes with a sense of disconnect. The story was told to Mr. Brook, who told the AFP news agency that he met the silent wrongdoer standing in front of a prison on a trip to Afghanistan before the Soviet invasion of 1979.On stage, an Englishman, played by Sean O’Callaghan, clearly stands for Mr. Brook himself. He frames the story as his own, announcing as the play starts: “I was for a while in a faraway land.”Watching “The Prisoner,” I wondered how Mr. Brook’s heavy use of spiritual ideas — plucked from India to Afghanistan to Mali — would fare if he were a young director starting out today. While critically acclaimed, “The Mahabharata” was criticized by some in its day for its Orientalist view. In an era when cultural appropriation is now a matter of debate, “The Prisoner” can leave an uneasy taste.Mr. Donnellan has had an even more peripatetic career than Mr. Brook. In addition to his own company, Cheek by Jowl, he founded a troupe in Moscow in 2000, and has found a third home in France, where he is well-known for his punchy ensemble work. He returned this month with his fourth French-language production, a staging of Shakespeare’s “Pericles” that proved strangely unimaginative.There is a reason Pericles is so rarely performed: Not only is the authorship of the play a matter of debate, with some scholars arguing that Shakespeare wrote only part of it, its structure and plot are remarkably weak. A number of elements echo other Shakespeare plays, including “A Winter’s Tale” and “The Tempest,” but the story of the Prince of Tyre, who wanders from shore to shore and loses both his wife and daughter before improbable reunions, never really coheres.AdvertisementNot that Mr. Donnellan gave it his best shot. For reasons unknown, the England-born director opted for the hackneyed device of setting an entire play in a hospital room, with the main character either dreaming or hallucinating the action. Mr. Donnellan doesn’t even specify Pericles’ condition: Our hero is initially unconscious and attended to by his distressed relatives, only to be fitted with a straitjacket straight out of “A Clockwork Orange.”The production backs itself into a corner with this gimmick, because Shakespeare’s play doesn’t support it. It leaves the actors to handle abrupt swerves in tone as the family and hospital staff turn into governors and brothel-dwellers, with no practical support from the static sets. The result was over-the-top acting from some in the seven-strong cast, including Camille Cayol as Thaisa. Christophe Grégoire somehow manages enough emotion to sustain the role of Pericles, and the scene in which he is reunited with his daughter Marina (Valentine Catzéflis) is the only truly affecting one.British directors weren’t the only Anglo-Saxon presence in Paris this month: The young American playwright Aleshea Harris also visited with a new work, “Fore!,” commissioned in tandem by the California Institute of the Arts and the theater La Comédie de Saint-Etienne in France. Five French actors are joined by five based in the United States for the occasion, and the troupe is directed by Arnaud Meunier.Ms. Harris has another play, “Is God Is,” currently evoking vengeance and Greek-style tragedy at the Soho Rep in New York, and “Fore!” explores similar territory. On a two-tiered stage, two families confront a collapsing world: One, the Atrides (like the mythical Greek family), sees their son fall for a mysterious silent woman who spits blood. Above them, the Halburtons, a family of political leaders, are seen reeling from a gun shooting that left the mother paralyzed.The play folds myth into violent reality with some success, although Ms. Harris struggles to bring the competing arcs of the multifaceted characters to a convincing conclusion. Still, it’s a welcome trans-Atlantic collaboration that pushes everyone on stage, including the Saint-Etienne actors required to speak in English out of their comfort zone. The Anglo-Saxon and French theater worlds, shaped by different cultural expectations, still have a thing or two to learn from each other.The Prisoner. Directed by Peter Brook and Marie-Hélène Estienne. Théâtre des Bouffes du Nord, through March 24.Périclès, Prince de Tyr. Directed by Declan Donnellan. Les Gémeaux – Sceaux, through March 25.Fore! Directed by Arnaud Meunier. Théâtre des Abbesses, on tour through March 31.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PETE WELLSMARCH 13, 2018
Some new restaurants you just know are going to be copied like Chanel handbags. I was fairly sure, for instance, that New York’s dining future was full of backless stools, long waits, chicken-liver toasts and precisely engineered pub burgers after one meal at the Spotted Pig.I’ll admit, though, that when Babu Ji showed up on Avenue B in the summer of 2015, I had no clue it would turn out to be a template for Indian restaurants in the city. The blanketing sweetness that covered up the spices in several dishes caused me to write the place off. I should have looked more closely; I should have asked myself why tables were so hard to come by. But I didn’t. Babu Ji closed less than two years later, after two wage-theft lawsuits were filed against the owners, and that, I thought, was the end of that.So much for my second career as a clairvoyant: The lawsuits were settled, and Babu Ji was resurrected at another address, near Union Square. Meanwhile, over the past year I’ve been eating, often very happily, in a number of new Indian places in Manhattan that are casual, not too expensive, and reminiscent of Babu Ji in one way or another. I think of them — Rahi, Badshah, Old Monk and aRoqa — as the Baby Ji restaurants.Some borrow menu items without, thankfully, emulating the original’s sweet tooth, which persists at its second location. What ties them together, and what I think will be Babu Ji’s legacy, has less to do with cooking than with finding a style of casual, inexpensive dining that’s in tune with current sensibilities. They’re learning to create atmospheres and present cooking in ways that resonate with a modern audience, the way Hanjan and Atoboy have done with Korean food or Atla does with Mexican.This is not an issue for the city’s fancier Indian restaurants, such as Indian Accent, Junoon or Tamarind Tribeca. Manhattan has a long tradition of formal Indian restaurants, often overseen by cooks who learned to present their country’s cuisine in a fine-dining idiom by hard-core training in India’s extensive system of hotel kitchens. At the other end of the scale are the no-frills places where value makes style irrelevant. The middle ground, though, is ripe for the Baby Ji rebellion.AdvertisementIn retrospect, it should have been obvious that the source of Babu Ji’s popularity is the way it mimics a big, informal dinner at a friend’s house. Its owners, Jessi Singh and his wife, Jennifer, project gloriously hallucinatory Bollywood numbers on the wall. You’re encouraged to “help yourself” to beer from a refrigerator case in the dining room. (Fear not, this will be recorded on your check.) On top of the refrigerator is a stuffed peacock. Gallery-quality framed photographic portraits of Indian men set the geographic theme without falling into cliché. The food, overseen by Mr. Singh, is dressed for a party: The kitchen is fond of tossing flowers, sprouts and other garnishes on dishes that would otherwise be a study in browns.AdvertisementNone of the second-generation places go quite as hard as Babu Ji. But there is Hindi hip-hop at Badshah, in Hell’s Kitchen, along with a spray-painted mural of tigers and skyscrapers by Carl Joseph Gabriel, and drinks served in canning jars. At Rahi, in Greenwich Village, surreal and cartoonlike figures by the street-art duo Yok and Sheryo crawl along the walls, and there’s more high-energy work in the back from a New Delhi gallery of emerging Indian artists. Flowers and sprouts are rampant.Over in Chelsea, aRoqa is the most cosmopolitan of the bunch, with moody cocktail-bar lighting and a swooping ceiling of bent wooden slats. The chef, Gaurav Anand, lightens the mood by serving rice-and-corn cakes in the luggage compartment of a tiny carrier tricycle. Dry ice makes an appearance, as do squeezable syringes, for injecting various chutneys into molded drums of paneer. Needless to say, there will be flowers.Old Monk, which took over Babu Ji’s original space in the East Village, is decorated with a different set of photographic portraits of men. This time they are monks from around Asia; one is taking a picture and another is holding a smartphone to his ear. The beer fridge is gone, but there is a long beer list, drawn from the more mainstream wing of the craft-brewing movement, like Fat Tire, Flying Dog, etc. (The wine list takes more chances.)One of Babu Ji’s more clever innovations is offering a $62 fixed-price package of dishes as a tasting menu. It’s not a true tasting menu in the style of, say, Blanca, but the term has cachet with modern diners, who end up trusting the kitchen to choose what turns out to be a well-rounded, traditional family-style meal.Old Monk has kept this idea, in a $55, four-course dinner called You’re in Good Hands. I didn’t try it, because my head was turned by the rest of Navjot Arora’s menu: fine pork-stuffed Tibetan momos with a ferocious garlic-chile sambal; tandoori lamb chops marinated in rum and ginger; a slow-cooked dal of mixed lentils that is inspired by Sikh temple cooking and is very delicious.Badshah’s chef, Charles Mani, used to cook at Babu Ji, and even claims to have come up with its General Tso’s Cauliflower, a spin on the classic Chinese-Indian fried cauliflower in chile sauce. In his new job, he calls it Badshah Cauliflower. I’ve eaten just one quick dinner at Badshah so far, and while I was content with the Kashmiri-style goat curry, I was less thrilled by the refrigerator-cold sauces spooned over hot potato croquettes.The most exciting food in this group, I think, belongs to Rahi. Chintan Pandya, the chef, trained under chefs from the Oberoi hotel group, and comes to Rahi from Junoon, where he was executive chef. The cooking isn’t as consistent from night to night as it should be, and Mr. Pandya can sometimes follow his creative impulses right over the cliff; my initial skepticism about tandoori lamb chops smeared with wasabi did not melt away when I tasted it.More often, the flavors are vivid and unexpected. With a chaat of fried artichoke hearts and edamame in a fruity and sour sauce of tamarind and pomegranate molasses, Mr. Pandya showed that he could infuse non-Indian ingredients with flavors that are very true to Indian cooking. There is a captivating appetizer of dark-meat chicken in a basil-chile sauce called Tulsi Chicken, and an inexplicably good snack of Melba toasts under chopped shishito peppers mixed with melted Amul cheese, a processed and highly shelf-stable product that’s everywhere in India. And I’m slightly in awe of his tandoori skate, a pristine hunk of fish cooked so it just slides off its cartilage and coated with a yogurt sauce so rife with cinnamon and cloves that it tastes like A.1. Sauce that some gifted cook had improved almost beyond recognition.AdvertisementOver the weekend, I went to a new place that in some respects fits right in. The Bombay Bread Bar is a quick conversion of Floyd Cardoz’s SoHo restaurant Paowalla. I don’t have the nerve to call it a Baby Ji, though. Mr. Cardoz practically invented fun, casual, inexpensive Indian dining years ago at the old Bread Bar, below Tabla, and he brings some of his old tricks to his new place.But I can’t help noticing that the menu is easier to scan; that the cooking, as good as ever, has moved toward small, colorful plates; that the prices stand firmly in the middle ground; and that the drab, businesslike design of Paowalla has been engulfed by paper marigolds, fruit-patterned oilcloths and a mural painted in comics style by the Pakistani-raised Canadian artist Maria Qamar. I’m not quite sure what it depicts, but it looks like a pair of Bollywood actors.aRoqa 206 Ninth Avenue (West 23rd Street), Chelsea; 646-678-5471; aroqanyc.com.Babu Ji 22 East 13th Street (University Place), Greenwich Village; 212-951-1082; babujinyc.com.Badshah 788 Ninth Avenue (West 52nd Street), Hell’s Kitchen; 646-649-2407; badshahny.com.The Bombay Bread Bar 195 Spring Street (Sullivan Street), SoHo; 212-235-1098; thebombaybreadbar.com.Old Monk 175 Avenue B (East 11th Street), East Village; 646-559-2922; oldmonknyc.com.Rahi 60 Greenwich Avenue (Seventh Avenue), Greenwich Village; 212-373-8900; rahinyc.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the chef at Old Monk. He is Navjot Arora, not Navjut.A version of this review appears in print on March 14, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Casual Indian Restaurants Keep Up With the Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHARLES McDERMIDMARCH 12, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A U.S. porn star’s refund offer, a high-ranking scandal in Japan and some good news from China’s war on smog. Here’s what you need to know:• Where? (If.) President Trump is a reluctant traveler. Kim Jong-un hasn’t left North Korea since he took power in 2011.Some White House officials believe their proposed meeting will never happen. But if it does, the DMZ, above, is just one possible venue.Our chief Washington correspondent notes that Mr. Trump’s determination to kill the 2015 accord limiting Iran’s nuclear capabilities is colliding with his scramble to reach a far more complex deal with Pyongyang.“The ironies abound,” an analyst said._____• Stormy Daniels, the adult film star who says she had an affair with President Trump, offered to return $130,000 she was paid by his personal lawyer.AdvertisementShe is seeking an end to her deal to keep quiet about what she describes as a relationship that started in 2006 and lasted for months.AdvertisementSeparately, Mr. Trump plans to proceed with his proposal to provide firearms training to school employees. He also dropped his pledge to immediately try to raise the age limit for buying the kind of assault rifle used in some of the country’s most lethal mass shootings._____• Uproar in Japan.A new government investigation concluded that unidentified officials tampered with documents related to a sweetheart land deal by deleting references to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s wife and senior members of his party.Mr. Abe’s political future has been cast in doubt, and pressures to escape new U.S. tariffs and the possible meeting between the U.S. and North Korea aren’t helping._____• Inside a Saudi shakedown.In November, the government of Saudi Arabia locked up hundreds of powerful businessmen and many royal family members in the Riyadh Ritz-Carlton, above, in what it called an anti-corruption campaign — but billions of dollars in private wealth were transferred to the control of Crown Prince Mohammed.A team of our reporters gathered insights into the murky operation, including accounts of torture and coercion.The prince heads to the U.S. to court investment this month._____• And some welcome good news.China is winning its war on air pollution. Data shows that its cities have cut concentrations of fine particulates by an average of 32 percent in just four years.That raises the possibility of extraordinary gains in life expectancy if the declines persist._____What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• In an extraordinary move, President Trump blocked Broadcom’s $117 billion bid for the chip maker Qualcomm, citing national security concerns. The decision showed the lengths to which he is willing to go to shelter American companies and ward off foreign investment in the United States. Advertisement• Saudi Aramco’s I.P.O., easily the biggest-ever by hundreds of billions of dollars, may be delayed until next year. London, New York and Hong Kong are front-runners to capture the oil company’s overseas listing.• SoftBank, the Japanese conglomerate, wants to muscle in on the U.S. private equity industry. At the helm of Masayoshi Son’s planned SoftBank Financial Services will be the current head of his Vision Fund, Rajeev Misra, an Indian-born financial engineer.• Every Asian country now trades more with China than with the U.S. But the U.S. still dominates in a crucial category: arms sales.• U.S. stocks were directionless. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• The Chinese artist Ai Weiwei unveiled a giant installation of asylum seekers packed into a raft, one of two works he is showing at the Sydney Biennale. He was sharply critical of Australia’s treatment of refugees. [ABC]• In India, tens of thousands of farmers and their families converged in Mumbai after marching more than 100 miles over six days to demand loan waivers and better produce prices. They disbanded after extracting promises of help from the government. [BBC]• A Bangladeshi passenger plane crashed and caught fire in Kathmandu, Nepal. Officials said at least 40 of the 71 people on board had died. [The New York Times]• Hong Kong’s pro-democracy lawmakers lost two legislature seats, another setback for the bloc whose members were previously disqualified for defying Beijing their oaths of office. [The New York Times]• “Highly likely that Russia was responsible”: Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, revealed the government’s blunt conclusion after saying that a former Russian spy and his daughter had been “poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent of a type developed by Russia.” [The New York Times]Advertisement• Rescuers in New York City fought swift currents as they tried to cut five passengers out of a sightseeing helicopter that crashed into the East River. Only the pilot survived. [The New York Times]• Tiger Woods could have walked away from golf, but he kept pushing and is, once again, thriving. (He just finished tied for second at the Valspar Championship.) [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Don’t be surprised that teens are sexting — include it in conversations about safety and respect.• Prices on smartphones keep going up, but you can still find a good deal.• Recipe of the day: Tonight, make a batch of loaded nachos drizzled with creamy queso.• “It’s like throwing confetti.” Three undergraduate students and their professor worked out how a flower shoots tiny seeds more than six meters through the air.• In memoriam:  Hubert de Givenchy, 91, the French couturier who dressed the likes of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Grace Kelly and Audrey Hepburn.• And in an effort to reduce crowds at the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican collaborated on a multimedia extravaganza — involving actors, dancers and a soundtrack by Sting. But will visitors choose this over the real thing?Thailand officially declared today, March 13, National Elephant Day — or Chang Thai Day — back in 1998.AdvertisementThe country’s national animal, the elephant has always played an important role in Thai society, where it was seen as a symbol of royalty.Practically, the elephant also helped the Thais in warfare, harvest and transportation. In Buddhism, Thailand’s most common religion, the elephant is a symbol of mental strength and frequently appears in allegories and art.There’s even a Thai Elephant Orchestra (!), which has been trained to play percussion instruments.The number of both wild and domesticated elephants has dropped significantly in Thailand over the past century.It’s not completely clear how many elephants live in the country, but in 2006 the number of wild elephants was estimated at between 3,000 and 3,700, while elephants in captivity numbered around 4,000. At the beginning of the 20th century, Thailand was said to have had more than 300,000 wild elephants and about 100,000 domesticated ones.Today, Asian elephants are endangered, with a population of fewer than 50,000 worldwide.Claire Moses contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy John WoganSurrounded by the Baltic Sea, about 60 miles off the southeastern coast of Sweden’s mainland, Gotland is the largest of the country’s bucolic islands (which number well over 200,000), and one that has a seemingly split personality. In the short summer season — primarily July and August, when temperatures hover in the balmy 70s — revelers descend on this mostly wild, windswept and sparsely populated province for all-night partying and the rambunctious weeklong electronic music festival Stockholmsveckan. Outside of high season, though — and anywhere outside of its largest town, Visby (population: 24,300) — Gotland remains a rural paradise, popular with outdoorsy Stockholm professionals looking to escape city life by hiking along the island’s craggy limestone cliffs and cycling past tiny clapboard fishing villages, crumbling medieval churches and 18th-century farmhouses. Several Stockholm-based architects have even chosen to build their own startlingly contemporary houses on the tradition-bound island.Lately, Gotland has been attracting a growing stream of international visitors, too. Chalk it up to gloomy political and environmental forecasts if you will, but as travelers increasingly seek out pristine landscapes offering peace and quiet, the island presents the perfect retreat — just a 40-minute flight from Stockholm. Design-forward boutique hotels offer access to nature that doesn’t require pitching a tent in the wilderness, and a clutch of remarkably good restaurants — serving fresh-caught Baltic fish and all manner of organic locally grown vegetables — show off the bounty of the surrounding farmland. Throw in a few charming craft-oriented Nordic design shops and an impressively large collection of museums for an island with a population of just 60,000, and you have a compelling reason to skip the mainland entirely.Hotel StelorStaying at this tiny, six-room hotel in rural Vastergarn village (about a 20-minute drive south of central Visby) feels like being a guest at a family friend’s country compound. The wood-beamed interiors of the 18th-century farmhouse are endlessly photogenic, decorated with pastel floral wallpaper, sheepskin throw rugs and jugs of freshly picked wildflowers. During the summer, there are live folk music performances in the property’s barn, and the traditionally Swedish restaurant — which uses produce from the hotel’s own two-acre garden — is considered one of the best on Gotland.Fabriken FurillenAn imposing former factory building on the site of an old limestone quarry might not sound particularly inviting, but photographer Johan Hellstrom had a vision for what it could become, and he turned this industrial patch of land into a high-end escape (about an hour’s drive northeast of Visby) after purchasing the abandoned factory in 1999. The 19 guest rooms all have Hastens beds and a color scheme dominated by soothing grays and white, so there’s nothing to detract from the natural, forested surroundings. For those who really want to detach, there’s a “Hermit Cabin” on the grounds — an isolated outpost (a 20-minute bike ride from the main building) with no running water, no Wi-Fi and free-roaming cows and sheep as your only neighbors.Revolver HotelTucked into a quiet courtyard in central Visby, the three-year-old Revolver is an under-the-radar hotel option in Gotland’s main town — there’s no website and no outside signage, so word of mouth has been the main driver for bookings here. Quirky décor dominates — think sparkly golden bathroom tiles, vintage rotary phones as objets d’art, and Fornasetti wallpaper depicting hot air balloons — all of it the singular vision of its owner, the conceptual designer Ingela Tanaka Rohnstrom. There’s no restaurant, but the hotel is within walking distance of the main commercial blocks of Visby, and three of the nine guest rooms have a full kitchen and living room. 011-46-70-639-39-01 BakfickanIn central Visby, the island’s premier seafood restaurant is a no-frills rustic dining room, filled with mismatched wooden chairs and vintage fish prints, that’s usually packed — no reservations accepted. The day’s specials are written on a chalkboard at the entrance and often include baked perch with celeriac and truffle vinaigrette, lobster soup with black radish, and fried herring with spring onion butter and mashed potatoes. In warm weather, simple wooden tables are set up on the street outside — the ideal place to sip a glass of Chardonnay and watch the summer crowds pass by. Krakas KrogA 40-minute drive east across Gotland from Visby brings you to this hybrid restaurant and hotel in the middle of the Kräklingbo countryside. There’s a highly seasonal tasting menu of six to eight courses — regular ingredients include grilled beetroot, local lamb, and frogs’ legs sourced from the nearby pond — all presented by one of the cooks in the spare, minimalist dining room. And with only one seating a night, there’s a sense of special occasion that permeates dinners here. The three guest rooms are similarly simple and refined, all in varying shades of white, with wide-plank wood floors and fluffy down comforters. Lilla BjersThis 30-acre family-run farm on the outskirts of Visby is surrounded by vegetable fields and fruit orchards, from which it sources the ingredients for its organic, constantly changing menu. Everything from blueberries and currants to garlic and nine varieties of asparagus, as well as Christmas trees, are grown on the property. Dishes are a simple affair — think roasted lamb with pickled carrots and potatoes pulled straight from the earth — and a walk around the grounds before a meal is the best way to fully appreciate what you’re about to eat. You can even meet the chickens that supply the kitchen’s eggs. Dinner in the farm’s atmospheric greenhouse can also be arranged, where you’ll dine amid banana, fig and olive trees. C. Jensen Keramik The ubiquity of Nordic design extends to Gotland, where the ceramist Camilla Jensen occupies a studio-cum-store selling her delicate, artfully imperfect handmade stone and porcelain tableware, most in pristine shades of white or jet black. The space itself, in central Visby — all whitewashed walls and pale linen finishings — is reminiscent of an art gallery. On the building’s lower level, Jensen also sells a small selection of home items (textiles, rugs, woven baskets), primarily sourced from India, where she travels every year. ToftalagretIn the medieval coastal town of Tofta, you’ll find an extension of Visby’s Revolver Hotel (which lies about 15 minutes to the north). Here, the hotel’s owner, Ingela Tanaka, and her partner Lena Herrmann, who runs the shop, have created another home for Tanaka’s vast assortment of design and fashion finds, collected over decades. There’s a whole room of vintage clothing (including original Levi’s and Lee denim, wedding dresses and unusual sneakers), bicycles from the 1960s, kitschy decorative items like porcelain parrots, vinyl records and an array of giftable local items (Swedish candy, homemade soaps, specialty loose-leaf teas and herbs). 011-07-63-94-24-44  Visby Botanical GardenA verdant expanse of parkland near the shoreline, Visby’s 150-year-old botanical garden is the place to be on warm summer afternoons — for a picnic lunch or to stroll the garden’s 60 acres while taking a closer look at the magnolia, tulips, cedar and sequoia trees. Be sure to explore the ivy-shrouded ruins of St. Olaf, a former church from the 13th century, whose gray stone structure still stands on the southern edge of the park. Gotland FornsalenThe Gotland Museum comprises seven different structures scattered throughout Visby, but its main building, Fornsalen (housed in a former 18th-century distillery) is dedicated to the culture and history of the island, with a collection that spans roughly 8,000 years. Here, you’ll find everything from the mummified remains of Stone Age islanders to medieval armor from the Danish invasion of 1361. It’s a deep dive into Gotland’s rugged, seafaring culture and why the island holds such a special place in the Swedish imagination.Related: A Low-Key Swedish Island’s Shockingly Modern ArchitectureAdvertisementBy TIM MCDONNELLMARCH 10, 2018
TEMA, Ghana — As recently as the 1980s, the West African nation of Ghana was in crisis, crippled by hunger after a series of military coups. But it has held peaceful elections since 1992, and its economic outlook turned considerably brighter about a decade ago, with the discovery of major offshore oil deposits.Now, as oil prices rise again and the country’s oil production rapidly expands, Ghana is on track to make a remarkable claim for a country mired in poverty not long ago: It is likely to have one of the world’s fastest-growing economies this year, according to the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Brookings Institution.Its projected growth in 2018, between 8.3 and 8.9 percent, might outpace even India, with its booming tech sector, and Ethiopia, which over the last decade has been one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies thanks to expanding agricultural production and coffee exports.According to the I.M.F.’s projections, only Bhutan, with a minuscule economy, and Libya, whose war-ravaged economy plunged in recent years, may have a higher rate of growth this year.AdvertisementIn January, Ghana’s benchmark stock index achieved the world’s highest rate of growth, 19 percent, according to Bloomberg.AdvertisementAnd oil is not the only resource helping to drive Ghana’s economy. Cocoa is Ghana’s other natural bounty, and producers are piggybacking on the oil boom.Edmund Poku, the managing director of Niche Cocoa, said his processing factory in Tema, an industrial suburb of the capital, Accra, already has contracts to sell all of the powder, butter and chocolate bars it plans to make in 2018.“This is the first year we’ve done that,” Mr. Poku said as employees in white lab coats ducked into his office from the factory floor for the day’s marching orders.Inside Mr. Poku’s noisy chocolate factory, crews of technicians sat behind banks of computers, operating machines that roast, grind, boil, press and blend hundreds of pounds of cocoa beans every day.His factory embodies the goal of economists and technocrats across Africa: a local enterprise that offers hundreds of well-paid, skilled jobs and uses cutting-edge technology.Mr. Poku has doubled his factory’s capacity in the last two years and plans to hire another 100 workers this year. He predicted other business sectors would also have the opportunity to expand.“Once people see that the economy is growing, banks and investors will be more willing to see Ghana as a good place to make investments,” he said.AdvertisementWhile the country is on a roll now, economists and other experts have urged Ghana to avoid the so-called resource curse that has plagued other nations that rely too heavily on the extraction of petroleum and minerals — industries often associated with graft and corruption.President Nana Akufo-Addo, who was elected in late 2016 on a wave of discontent over the economy, has pledged to heed that advice, and to funnel oil revenues into education, agriculture and manufacturing, to diversify the economy.In his recent State of the Nation address, Mr. Akufo-Addo called the agriculture industry the “backbone” of his development agenda and said that factories like Mr. Poku’s have been the “takeoff point for industrialization in most developed societies.” He said he also plans to expand incentives for cocoa processors.Cocoa sales are helping lift Ghana’s agriculture sector, which at the end of last year posted its best quarter of growth since 2010, driven by a bumper cocoa crop. Cocoa prices, along with prices for another of Ghana’s exports — gold — are rising again.The cocoa processing industry is expanding to take advantage of an influx of raw beans, said Eric Amengor, the deputy research manager at the Ghana Cocoa Board. Applications for permits to build new factories are flooding in, he added.But critics say that a program to set up new factories across a range of industries — one in each of Ghana’s 216 districts — has been slow to get started.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Growth in industries like finance and health care has also lagged, in part because government investment has been restricted over the last few years, in order to correct for years of overspending. After an initial oil boom in 2011, an overextended public payroll and increasing debt interest payments drove the country into a deep budget deficit when oil prices fell.But today, Ghana seems to be getting back on stable budgetary footing, analysts said.While the long-term goal is to diversify the economy, the main reason behind all the current optimism in Ghana is still oil.In the last 18 months, two major oil fields off Ghana’s coast have started production. In 2017, production jumped to nearly 60 million barrels, resulting in oil export revenues 124 percent above the previous year, according to central bank statistics.AdvertisementIn September, Ghana won an offshore boundary dispute with neighboring Ivory Coast, which is expected to clear the way for further oil exploration. Exxon Mobil signed an exploration deal with the government in January.The boom has some experts worried.“If you suddenly see a resource bonanza coming, there’s a tendency to spend money you don’t have, and that has been the case in the Ghana situation,” said John Page, a senior fellow in the global economy and development program at the Brookings Institution.At the same time, Mr. Page cautioned, if the Ghanaian currency strengthens as a result of oil exports, it could place domestic manufacturers at a disadvantage to imports and lead to a slowdown in manufacturing investment.What happens in Ghana could hold lessons for other West African countries, including Senegal, which recently announced discoveries of oil and gas off shore, and Mauritania, which has signed an exploration deal with Total, the French oil company.While Ghana may have a shot at claiming the title of fastest-growing nation this year, it will still have to prove it can parlay its oil boom into high-quality jobs and sustainable growth.“It’s our hope that our leaders can use these resources strategically,” said Alhassan Atta-Quayson, an economist at the University of Education in Winneba, in Ghana’s western coastal region, not far from the offshore oil wells. “So far, not much has been done. You don’t feel the effect of Ghana being an oil-producing country.”Across the nation, many ordinary citizens feel left out of the economic expansion.The unemployment rate, although below the average of 7.4 percent in sub-Saharan Africa, increased from 4 percent in 2011 to 5.8 percent last year, according to the World Bank. Among youth, the rate is as high as 11.5 percent.On the streets of Accra — where the population has increased by nearly one million in the last decade, to 2.7 million, as people pour in from the countryside in search of work — optimism can be hard to detect.AdvertisementKekeli Aryeetey graduated from Pentecost University College in Accra several years ago with a degree in finance. She was laid off from a microfinance firm, and then from a travel agency, before deciding to open a shop selling bulk rice and palm oil.As a student, she imagined her future in an air-conditioned office with a decent salary and annual vacations. Her income now is about $67 per month, below the national average of $115. She is waiting for the oil money to trickle down.The government “speaks very big,” she said, “but in terms of our daily activities, I don’t see anything. You can go to school, get a qualification, but it’s not enough. We’re still struggling for jobs.”A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Oil and Cocoa Lift Ghana From the Depths.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By LANDON THOMAS Jr.MARCH 11, 2018
The private equity industry has long been dominated by the Wall Street elite: firms like the Blackstone Group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Carlyle.Now SoftBank, a Japanese conglomerate best known in the United States for its ownership of Sprint, is looking to muscle in on this lucrative business.Under Masayoshi Son, the founder who still leads it, SoftBank has been a relentless deal maker for decades, shaking up industries and most recently unleashing a $100 billion investment fund focused on technology.Despite Mr. Son’s reputation — he is sometimes compared to Warren E. Buffett — the Wall Street establishment was skeptical when SoftBank last year made its first big private-equity play, buying Fortress Investment, a midsize asset manager.AdvertisementWhy would a man eyeing the far frontiers of technology buy a firm that invests in mortgage servicing, subprime lending and dubious Italian loans? The $3.3 billion deal for Fortress also represented a rich 38 percent premium to the company’s flagging stock price.AdvertisementWith his technology fund and Fortress under one roof, Mr. Son concluded that SoftBank could create an asset management firm capable of siphoning business from industry heavyweights. With their rich fees and locks on client cash for as much as 10 years, so-called alternative investments — investing in private equity, hedge funds and distressed debt — are the fastest-growing segment of the fund industry.Though not yet formally established, the plan is for the new firm to be called SoftBank Financial Services. Fortress and the Vision Fund would be the main cogs, but they would exist as separate entities.Rajeev Misra, a top Wall Street financial engineer who now heads the Vision Fund, will take charge of the larger company, to be based in London.He is an unusual choice to head a large asset management firm. During a 12-year career at Deutsche Bank, Mr. Misra oversaw the creation and distribution of the complex mortgage securities that were at the heart of the financial crisis in 2008.Nor does he have substantial experience in private equity or venture capital. But his expertise in devising complex financing solutions appealed to Mr. Son, one of the larger players in global debt markets. Mr. Son was also a client of Mr. Misra’s at Deutsche Bank.A native of India, Mr. Misra, who is 56, was among a wave of Indians whose intellect — he has degrees in computer science and mechanical engineering — and ambition propelled them to the top of Wall Street (he is a childhood friend of Anshu Jain, the former Deutsche Bank chief). His raspy voice and occasional coughing fits betray a decades-long chain-smoking habit that he has not yet kicked.“Right now we are close to $140 billion,” he said in a recent interview, counting the combined assets of the Vision Fund and Fortress. “If we perform well, we would hope to be two times that number in the next five years.”In terms of sheer size, SoftBank is already challenging Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, which oversees $168 billion.AdvertisementBut size isn’t all that matters. Industry experts argue that the SoftBank method — raising gobs of money and building a firm around it — is rare. Outfits like Blackstone, K.K.R. and Carlyle evolved, and became institutionalized, over decades through the persistent energies of their respective founders, Stephen A. Schwarzman, Henry Kravis and David Rubenstein.“It takes a lot of work to build one of these organizations,” said Josh Lerner, a private equity specialist at the Harvard Business School. “The best of them have been built through a careful process of balancing controls that limit risk with maintaining incentives and the entrepreneurial spirit of the firm. Just the ability to raise money is not a guarantee of success.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At Blackstone, Mr. Schwarzman, for one, does not seem alarmed by SoftBank.When an analyst asked on a conference call last month about the threat posed by the new venture, the Blackstone chief noted that the Vision Fund was investing large sums in technology companies that are spending more cash than they are bringing in.In the private equity world, that counts as trash talk. Cash flow is its lifeblood; without it, companies cannot repay debt and pay dividends to their investors.For example, the Vision Fund has been making big bets on start-ups like Uber, WeWork (shared workplaces) and Wag (on-demand dog care) that are known for burning through cash, not generating piles of it.Until recently, SoftBank’s fledgling investment arm was little more than a group of analysts in Tokyo and London sifting through possible deals. Buying Fortress provided the group with a template to use as it moved to becoming an actual institution, with a formal investment committee, compliance department, trading desk and investor relations unit. The new entity is now 1,000 people strong.Fortress, which manages over $40 billion, is a tier or two below leaders like Blackstone. It is run by Wesley R. Edens and Peter Briger Jr., who helped found the firm.Mr. Edens, who oversees the firm’s private equity business from New York and is a co-owner of the Milwaukee Bucks basketball team, is the point man for the firm’s more prominent projects. These include All Aboard Florida, a private railroad company; Onemain, the country’s largest subprime lender; and Nationstar, which collects mortgage payments on behalf of lenders.AdvertisementMr. Briger looks after the credit and lending business. Known as the garbage collector, he hunts for distressed assets to buy on the cheap.Compared to its competitors, Fortress has not seen a big increase in its funds since it sold its shares to the public in 2007. Assets under management have gone from about $30 billion to a bit more than $40 billion.Having worked briefly at Fortress before jumping to SoftBank in 2014, Mr. Misra is confident it can accelerate that.The Fortress deal closed late last year and Mr. Misra plans to market Fortress-branded private equity and debt funds to contacts he and Mr. Son have in the Middle East, the source of a large chunk of Vision Fund money. Acquisitions of smaller, similarly themed investment firms are also a possibility.“My vision,” Mr. Misra said, “is to become one of the largest managers of alternative assets in the world.”An earlier version of this article misstated the amount of assets that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts has under management. It is $168 billion, not $148 billion.A version of this article appears in print on March 12, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: SoftBank Moves to Muscle Into Private Equity.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHARLES McDERMIDMARCH 11, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Global recalculations, no fun for Toys “R” Us and the most ignorant man in America. Here’s what you need to know: • A global trade war? Or just a skirmish?America’s allies are using persuasion, threats, personal appeals and diplomatic leverage to jockey for exemptions from new U.S. tariffs on aluminum and steel.Australia joined Canada and Mexico as possible winners after deploying Greg Norman, the golfing legend who counts President Trump as a friend. But South Korea, which made an impassioned appeal based on its role trying to defang North Korea, is still waiting.In the end, which countries get a reprieve, and which end up retaliating, will determine the severity of the disruption to global trade.AdvertisementOur Op-Ed columnist, Paul Krugman, a Nobel laureate for his research on trade, writes that “the tariffs could unwind the whole global trade system built, largely under U.S. leadership, over the past 80 years.” He’s taking questions from readers on the subject. Ask yours here._____• The Chinese legislature’s vote was almost unanimous. Presidential term limits are gone, as expected, allowing Xi Jinping to rule indefinitely.AdvertisementHere’s a look at how the limits came to be, and a fuller picture of what is at stake — not least of which is a return to the Mao-era danger of concentrating power in one supreme, unassailable leader._____• President Trump’s abrupt “yes” to a meeting with North Korea, throwing aside caution and decades of conventions, is a case study in Trump-era international relations.The idea is so risky — and seemingly far-fetched — that some of Mr. Trump’s aides believe it will never happen. (Note that summits of geopolitical adversaries haven’t always worked out so well.)Here’s a fresh look at what we know about Kim Jong-un, the North’s enigmatic young dictator. And we have the back story of how two South Korean envoys brought his invitation to Washington. Above, one with Mr. Trump last week.The American moves on trade and North Korea have injected fresh uncertainty into strategic calculations in Asia. China has an opening. And Japan feels left in the cold._____• Vladimir Putin said he did not “care” about U.S. allegations of Russian election interference, suggesting in an interview broadcast over the weekend that the culprits might be “Ukrainians, Tatars or Jews, but with Russian citizenship.”AdvertisementPresident Putin’s comments, which drew criticism from Jewish groups and U.S. lawmakers, came as an exhibition in Vienna explored the debt the Russian Revolution, communism and socialism owe to Jewish philosophers, politicians and artists. Above, an election poster from the show._____• The most ignorant man in America? Since President Trump’s election victory, an Ohio man has blocked out the news — completely. He’s managed to become shockingly uninformed.Extreme as it is, it’s a path that likely holds some appeal for liberals these days — a D.I.Y. version of leaving the country.“I am bored,” he said. “But it’s not bugging me.”What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• “Black Panther” pushed past $1 billion in global box office sales with what the Walt Disney Company estimates was a $66.5 million opening in China.• Toys “R” Us is preparing to liquidate its bankrupt operations in the U.S., and is in talks to unload its growing Asian business.• Dropbox, the U.S.-based file sharing service, is expected to set a price range for its offering as soon as this week and to trade on the stock market by the end of March. When it does, its 35-year-old founder, Drew Houston, will become a billionaire.• The Kushner Companies and the Trump Organization are stepping up their real estate collaborations, blurring the line between family, business and politics. Both companies have dismissed ethics concerns.• The International Solar Alliance, a treaty-based organization launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, received a $862 million pledge from France. The I.S.A. aims to mobilize $1 trillion for global solar projects.Advertisement• Market watchers, please note that U.S. clocks have moved forward an hour. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Hong Kong held by-elections Sunday to fill four Legislative Council seats once held by pro-democracy lawmakers, who were ousted over invalid oaths of office. Results are expected today. [A.P.]• In the Philippines, the army said its forces killed at least 44 pro-Islamic State militants and wounded 26 more, after days of fighting and shelling in southern Maguindanao province. The rebel group is known as the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters, or BIFF. [Reuters] • Andrew Barr, the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, announced a plan to bypass traditional news media. “I hate journalists,” he said. “I’m over dealing with the mainstream media.” [The Canberra Times]• Recent scandals in Australia’s halls of power have exposed a pervasive culture of sexual harassment in the country’s politics. Our reporter takes the measure of the national reckoning. [The New York Times]• Wash clothes and use baby wipes. A week after a former Russian spy and his daughter were poisoned with a nerve agent in England, the authorities issued some advice but said the risk to the public remained “low.” [The New York Times]• U2’s frontman, Bono, said he was “furious” after a charity he co-founded was accused of fostering an atmosphere of bullying and abuse, including an attempt at sexual coercion. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Start the week off simply with homemade mushroom soup.Advertisement• Go green and save by skipping hotel housekeeping.• Want an easier way to buy art? There’s an app for that.• In Japan, a girl turned to her Buddhist faith to help rebuild her village temple destroyed in the tsunami in 2011. Our photographer and photo editor, Hiroko Masuike, has been following her efforts for seven years.• China’s heavy-handed attempts to drive tens of thousands of migrant workers out of big cities have inspired a backlash of paintings, songs and poetry.• In the Times Magazine music issue, we write about 25 songs that show where music is going. Check it out: The digital presentation plays each song as you scroll through the article.News from Washington often isn’t so pleasant these days. But one of the U.S. capital’s most-celebrated springtime traditions begins this coming weekend: Its famed cherry trees are predicted to be in peak bloom.More than 3,000 of the trees were presented as a gift by the city of Tokyo in 1912. The gesture of international good will has a rich history, but one of its more contentious episodes occurred 80 years ago: the Cherry Tree Rebellion.The trees had already become a favorite of Washingtonians by 1938, when construction was set to begin on the Jefferson Memorial. The site for the monument was along the Tidal Basin, where many of the trees had been planted.The planned removal of the trees was opposed by parts of Washington society, in particular by the city’s newspapers. A group of women even briefly chained themselves to a tree on the site in an effort to stop construction.AdvertisementAn exasperated President Franklin D. Roosevelt dismissed the controversy — which died down soon after the memorial’s groundbreaking — as a “flimflam game” designed to sell newspapers.“If anybody wants to chain herself to the tree and the tree is in the way, we will move the tree and the lady and the chains, and transplant them to some other place,” he said.Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Adeel HassanThe film industry’s historic lack of representation prompted us at Race/Related to ask: When was the first time you saw yourself represented on the silver screen? We published our responses in an article, “When Hollywood Is Our Mirror.” Then we asked for your answers to the same question. About 100 readers responded. Here are a selection of them, lightly edited for clarity and length.“The Brothers Garcia” on Nickelodeon. It was my happiest TV day ever! The family on TV looked and acted very much like mine, and everybody at school loved it! The show gave me the “endorsement” I had been craving all my (short) life.— Alex GonzalezThe first time I saw myself on the big screen was when “Gone With the Wind” came out and had Hattie McDaniel as the maid. I am 74 years old and I have seen a lot of racism in my life but “Gone With the Wind” was the worst. It depicted a black women as a slave, who at the same time had power. At the time of the film I didn’t really understand a lot about racism and the fact that I was a second-class person. A lot has changed, but a lot has not.— Gwendolyn Morgan I always liked “In the Heat of the Night” because as a well-spoken, professional black man, I have found myself in Sidney Poitier’s character’s position: People can’t figure me out. Like when someone asks Poitier: “Why are you wearing white man’s clothes?” I get that look today sometimes!— Andre GravesI first saw black actors who made an impression on me during the 1970s era of Blaxploitation films. “Shaft,” “Superfly,” Pam Grier, etc ... They looked like people in my St. Albans and Jamaica, Queens, neighborhood. — DeBorah PalmerI remember watching “Mulan,” which came out when I was in middle school, and absolutely freaking out. I’m not Chinese; I’m Korean and was adopted by a white family as a baby, but in a media landscape that still largely excludes people of East Asian descent, I’ll celebrate what I can get.— Amanda McClendonI’m a white woman. Moira Shearer in “Red Shoes.” I was perhaps 8 years old. I grew up in a small town in North Texas. As a child I loved “Song of the South” and had read “Uncle Remus” before I saw it. I know it’s not politically correct now, but this film mirrored the kindness, warmth and wisdom I received as a child from African-Americans who worked in our house.— Mavis BryantAs a black South African, and an African in particular, I felt a deep sense of joy at how “Black Panther” tried to portray African culture. For once, Africans were good people in a movie, although it was fictional. — Khalifah MakgotlhoThe 1972 film “Black Girl,” starring Peggy Pettit as an aspiring modern dancer. Despite her three envy-ridden older sisters, who try to crush her dreams, she triumphs in the end. Perhaps it was the start of my dreams of moving to New York to pursue my career.— Deborah Sanders Since before I can remember, the movie “Mulan” has guided my understanding of empowerment and representation. As someone adopted from China and raised in a predominantly white town, “Mulan” was my premier exposure to Asian beauty and culture. Her story’s message about turning adversity into strength sticks with me always.— MaiLei MeyersThe first time I saw gay men represented in film, who felt real and relatable, was in “My Beautiful Laundrette.” Being gay isn’t what the movie was about, these two characters just were, and that one was brown and the other white and working class made it even better.— Michael Ginther“Drumline,” featuring Nick Cannon, in 2002 and “You Got Served” in 2004. Both those movies, seen at age 7 and 9, inspired me to become the drummer and dancer I am today, at 23. It was impossible to know then, but representation matters!— Taylor AlarconI’m still waiting for representation. The closest I’ve come is with “Smoke Signals.” But as a biracial person, I’m not a “real” Native American, according to some, but I also wasn’t raised like my white peers. I believe that this constant social navigation is ripe for exploration. — India Lovato In 1988, I saw “The Milagro Beanfield War.” Most of the characters were Mexican and they were just portrayed as people, not some “Frito Bandito” joke. It made me want to cry with relief. — Dawn ReedGrowing up Italian and plus-size, I never saw women like me in the movies. The closest thing to representation I saw was “The Godfather,” but my family wasn’t violent or in organized crime so I couldn’t relate. I’m still waiting to see characters like me.— Tiffany MagazzeniI’m still waiting to see myself. I mean there is Michelle Yeoh, an Asian actress in the 1997 movie “Tomorrow Never Dies.” She’s not me, but I loved that her character defies the usual Hollywood stereotypes for Asians. But she is not American and I’m not at all a Bond woman. I grew up watching movies and I love the old Hollywood movies especially, but it makes me sad to realize that Hollywood’s portrayal of Asians has been mocking or missing for most of its history. Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan are also imports. There just aren’t any homegrown Asian-American filmmakers yet. — Lillian HsuI am an African-American man born in 1960, raised in Southern California. The first time I remember seeing someone who looked like me represented on screen in the way I saw myself was in 1967. It was Jim Brown in “The Dirty Dozen”: a strong, brave, athletic black man fighting with the good guys against the bad guys. — Darren CasonhuaIt may seem bizarre, but “Moonlight” helped me better understand myself as an upper-middle-class heterosexual white woman growing up in the Midwest. Through some common coming-of-age feelings of loneliness and confusion, but also in better understanding the differences, I learned more about myself. — Sally OtisAlthough I am white, I am Jewish with “big” hair, raised in the Bronx. I saw myself reflected in “Funny Girl.” With a New York City backdrop, song lyrics and Barbra Streisand’s delivery, I felt for the first time, in the eyes of the larger world, at age 12, accepted.— Jill SagerI am 70 years old and watched classic Hollywood movies on television during the 1950s and ’60s. The first film I saw people who looked like me and behaved in ways I recognized was “Paris Blues” with Sidney Poitier and Diahann Carroll, who were in love and kissed on screen. Amazing!— Donna BaileyThe first time I saw myself represented was in high school. Spike Lee made an all-black musical, “School Daze,” and I was in awe. I clearly remember sitting in my seat amazed at seeing all of the different shades of black people on the big screen and feeling proud because I was finally being seen through them.— Cathleen JagarnauthI’m a white, 68-year-old woman and the first time I saw myself on the screen was in 1987 when Holly Hunter was in “Broadcast News.” She was opinionated, pushy, demanding and terribly emotionally fragile, taking a few minutes to cry. When her producer told her it must be nice to know exactly what everyone else should be doing, she said, “No. It’s horrible.” When the movie ended I literally sat in the movie theater and cried in recognition.— Carolyn Langenkamp For more coverage of race, sign up to have our newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ruchir SharmaThe announcement that President Trump’s top economic adviser, Gary D. Cohn, plans to resign after apparently losing a battle over raising tariffs ratchets up concern that the White House is turning sharply toward protectionism. The deepest fear is that the planned steel and aluminum tariffs will echo the mistake of the infamous Smoot-Hawley tariffs of 1930, which provoked a global trade war and helped fuel the Great Depression.The alarmists are getting a bit ahead of the story, however. Periods of deglobalization — when nations begin shuttering their borders to flows of trade, money and people — tended to be slow processes, not sudden events. They started with tectonic shifts — global wars and crises — not minor import levies. And they unfolded over decades, not years. The last era of deglobalization actually began when countries turned inward after World War I, more than a decade before Smoot-Hawley and the Great Depression.It is important to view Mr. Trump’s latest trade actions in that historical context. The suggested higher tariffs on steel and aluminum are too narrowly targeted to trigger a trade war but represent another chapter in the evolving era of deglobalization.This era began long before Mr. Trump took office, but he is now capitalizing on the popular backlash against globalization. The mood turned decisively after the Great Recession of 2008. Trade collapsed as a share of the world economy, and despite some pickup in the past two years, trade has yet to recover to its pre-crisis level. One big reason: the barriers that countries like India and Russia have been raising to block the flow of trade, money and people at their borders.In every year since 2010, the leading economies have instituted more discriminatory trade measures than liberalizing ones, according to data from Global Trade Alert. The difference with Mr. Trump is that he is reviving the old-school and easily detected weapon of the tariff. Many other countries have been using a wide array of non-tariff barriers. Some are stealthy, like hidden subsidies for export industries. Others are blatant, like barring foreign competitors outright.Though the world is now a decade into this age of deglobalization — with flows of money and migrants also running well below the peaks reached before 2008 — it’s an exaggeration to compare Trump’s tariffs to a tipping point like Smoot-Hawley.Steel and aluminum represent only 2 percent of United States imports, and so far Mr. Trump’s proposal bears less resemblance to the sweeping Smoot-Hawley tariffs than to the more narrowly targeted Fordney-McCumber tariffs that preceded it.In the early 1920s, European farms were recovering from World War I and emerging as a competitive threat to American farmers, who began lobbying for protection. Fordney-McCumber began as an attempt to answer the farmer’s demands, but once tariff rates were opened up for discussion, other industries like pharmaceuticals demanded and received protection as well. We are at a similar point now: The deglobalization process is underway, in which pressure from other industries, voters and politicians to enact additional tariffs may grow.The outcry for higher tariffs could really intensify if the economy takes a serious turn for the worse, as it did after the stock market crash of 1929. Then, factories shut down and unemployment spiked. That led to the passage of Smoot-Hawley, which triggered a sharp reaction from foreign governments. Global trade slowed sharply and did not fully recover until the 1970s.Today, however, the world economy looks much more like it did in the 1920s than in the depressed ’30s. Unemployment and inflation are low, growth is reasonably strong, inequality is back to levels last hit in the 1920s, and the mood is shifting against globalization. Still, the clamor for protection could grow significantly in intensity.The obvious concern: If Mr. Trump is pushing tariffs during good times, just imagine what he might do if the times turn bad. That’s when governments normally become even more protectionist, and this administration is already moving in that direction. The decision by Mr. Cohn, the head the National Economic Council and a staunch defender of free trade, to leave the administration is clear evidence of the trend.The next chapter in this period of deglobalization may revolve around how Mr. Trump deals with China. If the world’s two largest economies fall into a spiral of tit-for-tat retaliation, the global trend toward trade protection could pick up pace. China is a minor supplier of steel and aluminum to the United States but a major supplier of much else.In the global financial markets, many observers are thus less concerned about the steel tariffs than about the Section 301 investigation launched by the Trump administration against China, which goes well beyond earlier investigations into illegal subsidies for export manufacturers and other stealth trade protection. Instead, the 301 investigation — named after the section of the Trade Act of 1974 that gives the president great leeway to address trade issues — is a broad look at Chinese practices such as investing in American companies to steal technology, penetrating American data networks and lifting technology from American companies that invest in China.In short, the current controversy over steel and aluminum tariffs involves old industries that are shrinking as a share of the global economy and affect about 2 percent of global trade. Even if Mr. Trump’s suggested new tariffs provoke Chinese retaliation in these industries, it would have a manageable impact. A broader trade conflict involving newer sectors such as technology, or that leads to restrictions on foreign investment, could be much more damaging.Of course, this is not the first time in the postwar era that an American president has resorted to trade protectionism. Richard Nixon fought his 1968 election campaign on a mercantilist platform. Both Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush imposed trade tariffs. The difference then was that America exercised more dominance over the global economy and had greater reason to believe it could squeeze concessions from trading partners. Rising powers such as China are not likely to be as compliant now, and even allies in Europe seem to feel less obliged to placate America.Regardless of how far Mr. Trump goes in pressing tariffs against both rivals and allies, it is important to remember that this is not the beginning of the story, or the end. We are somewhere in the middle. The seeds of discontent against globalization were sown following a period of intensive trade and migration that culminated in the financial crisis of 2008. The age of deglobalization is now a worldwide phenomenon that is larger than Mr. Trump. It was coming whether he won election or not. And it is unlikely to end until long after he is gone.Ruchir Sharma is the author of “The Rise and Fall of Nations: Forces of Change in the Post-Crisis World,” the chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley Investment Management and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisementBy DAMIEN CAVEMARCH 7, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.______A.C. Grayling, one of Britain’s most prolific public intellectuals, had just finished cradling a baby kangaroo in the green room, George Megalogenis had Australian economic data at the ready and I was drinking my flat white just as fast as I could.We were all running late for our Adelaide Writers’ Week discussion of democracy and populism, and when I saw the crowd of 400 people waiting for us on Monday morning, I was suddenly surprised and impressed at the level of interest. (A bit nervous, too.)As the moderator, I set the scene. Democracy is in retreat, I said, in Hungary, Venezuela, Turkey and many other countries, as our Interpreter columnists have pointed out.AdvertisementI also noted the declining percentage of people who say “it is essential” to live in a democracy, with the sharpest drop-off among the young.AdvertisementOver all last year, I said, 71 countries suffered declines in political rights and civil liberties while 35 registered gains, according to Freedom House’s annual index. It was 12th year in a row of losses outpacing gains.Pretty depressing, right?Well, so it goes in the world today.And yet, our public discussion (which followed a chat, a day earlier, with Clive Hamilton about China’s influence in Australia) ranged widely from the causes to possible solutions to signs of both despair and hope.A few of the highlights and themes worthy of further examination:• The Talent Deficit: Both Professor Grayling and Mr. Megalogenis lamented the way that politics now struggles to draw in the best and brightest minds. For those who are ambitious and want to change the world, I also noted, there’s more interest in tech start-ups than in government.What can or should our leaders do to make representative democracy feel more dynamic and relevant?Professor Grayling suggested that strict term limits would be one way to help, by making politics a temporary service rather than a career. Another idea that came up: recruiting a more diverse pool of candidates, tapping into the optimism of immigrant communities and their children, who tend not to be underrepresented in Australian politics.• Tech, Foe and Friend: Social media and big data: Good or bad? How about both.They allow for niche targeting of voters, which usually means the undecided, but in the case of Britain’s decision to withdraw from the European Union, Professor Grayling noted, it also meant encouraging complacency with social media posts telling anti-Brexit voters that there was no way they’d lose, making them less likely to turn out to vote.At the same time, social media is also now being used by young people to demand change — whether it’s around the issue of guns in the United States, or in Britain with those who are calling for a second Brexit vote through a group called Our Future, Our Voice.• Transparency vs. Secrecy:An Australia Letter reader in Canberra, Brett Kennedy, emailed last week with a smart question for our discussion: “How can democracy be sustained and furthered in a world where Western governments are taking every opportunity to increase secrecy around their functions and reduce transparency of their actions and decisions?”AdvertisementI’m zealot for transparency, as some of you know, so I paraphrased the inquiry.Mr. Megalogenis agreed that it was a problem, noting that Australian politicians were continually trying to to avoid transparency and questions — except from friendly journalists.What he and Professor Grayling concluded was that most of today’s leaders have simply not come to grips with the current moment of existential challenge for democracies: Politicians are still waltzing in a world where the stakes are small and intimately tied to their own party loyalty, their donors and re-election.What might it take for them to wake up, mature and reinvigorate government?What needs to happen for the public to be better informed and to demand more from their elected representatives?These questions came up, too, from me and from the audience. And besides the answer I felt compelled to toss out there (subscribe to The Times!) a consensus emerged around the simplest possible idea: People just have to do it.I’m not sure that’s as satisfying as one would hope. We seem to be in a moment where much of the world is just trying to keep up with the volatility of shifting politics — very little feels settled, and our discussion did little to banish that uncertainty.What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But perhaps it was a start. And the discussions will continue, in this newsletter, in The New York Times and beyond.What do you think? Are you a Pinker or a Grayling?Email nytaustralia@nytimes.com and join us in our Facebook group for more discussion.Now here are some other New York Times articles, all related to representation and our changing geopolitical world, followed by a recommendation for what to watch as an escape, if you need it!Advertisement______Coverage of China and its impact worldwide is a major priority for The New York Times this year, and this week, our business reporters have been exploring how the United States-China rivalry is also increasingly a fight over technology.They’ve also examined President Trump’s steel tariffs and their impact on China and the world — while our colleagues in Europe have been looking at China’s role there as well.Inside China, we’ve added more analysis of Xi Jinping, and a close look at one city’s all-women subway cars, where men rush in.______This week I stumbled onto a feature from a few months ago that rounded up comments from women all over the world, including Australia, about the challenges they face.It was part of a special section called Women Today that I figured was worth highlighting since today is International Women’s Day. The reader roundup is wide-ranging, and so are the profiles of strong and fascinating women all over the globe, from a sex trafficking activist in India to a physicist with a passion for music.Also, on a related note, if you didn’t get to The Wheeler Centre for this week’s discussion of gender and journalism with Sophie Black, Matilda Dixon-Smith and Francesca Donner, director of The New York Times Gender Initiative, here’s video from the event.______This week’s reads from Oz … Oh, and Parwana really is amazing if you’re looking for a place to eat in Adelaide!• A Farming Town Divided: Do We Want a Nuclear Site that Brings Jobs? Wheat farming has been the economic mainstay of Kimba, South Australia. Now, the town is bitterly split over a plan to host a medical nuclear waste site. (International)Advertisement• How Trump’s Tariffs Would Affect Australia: A trade war could slam an economy that relies heavily on exports, while limits on Australian products could test a century-old political relationship. (International)• Back in My Day: Tales of boomers versus millennials, for those who have been frustrated, tickled, annoyed or delighted by someone older or younger. (Australia Diary)• Parwana Afghan Kitchen Cooks Rice Worth Swooning Over: The small storefront restaurant, run by a family that fled Afghanistan, is one of the most in-demand reservations in Adelaide. (Food)• After 131 Years, Message in a Bottle Found on Australian Beach: The message was tossed from a German ship in June 1886. This year, an Australian woman noticed the thick green glass poking through the sand. (International)• Why This Tech Executive Says Her Plan to Disrupt Education Is Different: Susan Wu, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur, has opened a school in Australia. (International)• Cardinal George Pell Appears in Court Over ‘Historical’ Sexual Abuse: Cardinal Pell is the highest-ranking Vatican official to be so charged. Here’s what we know about the case and how it will be shaped by Australia’s courts. (International)______Welcome to March.Here’s what to watch on Netflix in Australia this month. Spruiking for a friend: “Flint Town, Season 1” promises to be really interesting and beautifully shot by Zack Canepari.And if you’d rather read, don’t miss our critics’ selection of 15 remarkable books by women that are shaping the way we read and write fiction in the 21st century.Damien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PATRICK BOEHLERMARCH 8, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.News consumption advice and the latest on Britain’s spy poisoning, President Trump’s metal tariffs and the Champions League. Here’s the news: • For two months, our tech columnist skipped digital news and social media, reading only newspapers, newsletters, books and magazine articles.He said he ended up better informed and less anxious, with more free time. “Most of all, I realized my personal role as a consumer of news in our broken digital news environment,” he writes.“I distilled those lessons into three short instructions, the way the writer Michael Pollan once boiled down nutrition advice: Get news. Not too quickly. Avoid social.”_____• The British authorities confirmed that a former Russian spy and his daughter were poisoned with a nerve agent in England this week.AdvertisementSuspicion is now rampant that the episode was an assassination attempt, and that Russia might be responsible.AdvertisementThe former spy, Sergei Skripal, 66, and his daughter, Yulia, 33, remain in critical condition._____•  President Trump is expected to formally impose new tariffs on steel and aluminum today, despite a strong opposition from establishment Republicans. As aides quit in record numbers, the president increasingly relies on his own judgment.European Union officials unveiled an array of retaliatory tariffs they would place on American imports, including products made in Republican states, like Kentucky bourbon.Separately, we learned that Mr. Trump ignored his lawyers’ advice and asked key witnesses in the Russia inquiry about their conversations with investigators._____• Turkey asked Washington to stop Kurdish commanders from sending more troops to Afrin, the Kurdish stronghold in Syria’s west that Turkey invaded last month.Besides creating a diplomatic quandary, the Kurdish deployment to Afrin is depriving the U.S. of allied troops in the campaign to stamp out the last vestiges of the Islamic State.Meanwhile, negotiations between the Syrian government and Jaish al-Islam, the rebel group that controls diminishing parts of the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta, went nowhere. New government troops are adding momentum to the brutal siege that began in 2013._____• In honor of International Women’s Day, an official holiday in many countries, here are some stories on the state of gender equality:In France, the government may fine companies that do not erase gender pay gaps within three years. Some workers in Spain are striking over inequality. And in Britain, Parliament and social media debated  “mansplaining.”AdvertisementIn the U.S., a Muslim fashion blogger is making waves by challenging stereotypes about hijab-wearing women. And the first female artistic director of the Maxim Gorki Theater in Berlin is focusing on cultural conflicts.Finally, there are signs that American parents’ traditional preference for sons over daughters is changing.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A robot at the world’s largest bricklaying competition fed dreams of solving housing shortages — and raised fears for bricklayers’ jobs.• The European Central Bank had been expected to take another small step toward normalcy today, but the populist surge in Italy’s election changed its calculus, our correspondent in Frankfurt writes.•  Huawei is determined to lead 5G mobile technology, worrying Washington. “Whoever controls the technology knows, intimately, how it was built and where all the doors and buttons are.”• Peter Thiel, the billionaire Facebook board member and Trump supporter, discusses politics, Silicon Valley and how he was influenced by the French philosopher René Girard.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• China’s Communist elders were too old or too cowed to resist President Xi Jinping’s backroom campaign to abolish term limits. [The New York Times]• A court in Germany sentenced eight members of a far-right group to lengthy jail sentences for plotting to kill migrants and politicians. [Reuters]Advertisement• In memoriam: Kalman Aron survived seven Nazi camps on scraps of food from guards whose portraits he drew. He lived to become a prominent American portraitist. [The New York Times]• Pope Francis has paved the way for the canonization of Pope Paul VI, who led the Roman Catholic Church through turmoil in the 1960s and ’70s, and the Salvadoran archbishop Óscar Romero. [The New York Times]• The Trump administration’s plan to open a new American Embassy in Jerusalem has a hitch: The site lies partly in disputed territory. [The New York Times]• A Utah lawmaker introduced a bill that would rename the state’s most scenic highway after President Trump. (An opponent countered with his own proposal: a “Stormy Daniels rampway.”) [The New York Times]•  Europeans running late to work or school can offer a novel excuse: Some clocks are running slow because of a dispute between Kosovo and Serbia. Really. [Associated Press]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Leave ordinary roasted potatoes behind with a little lemon, smoked paprika and rosemary.• Take the stress out of weeknight cooking with this useful multitasker.• Find a great rug that won’t decimate your budget.• A surprise at the Champions League: Juventus’s squad of aging veterans appeared to be on the verge of succumbing to a young Tottenham, but the Italians embraced the fight and proceed to the quarterfinals.Advertisement• Balkrishna Doshi, a low-cost housing pioneer from India, won this year’s Pritzker Prize, the highest honor in architecture. “Architecture is not a static building,” he said, “it’s a living organism.”• An experimental musical about Slobodan Milosevic, the Serbian autocrat, was met with applause, tears and a few walkouts in Kosovo.• Indie pop now thrums far from the swaggering, anthemic sound of a decade ago. The internet, our critic writes, has given voice and lent strength to interiority, and also undermined seriousness.• A woman in Australia has found what is believed to be the world’s oldest message in a bottle. It had been tossed off the side of a German ship in 1886.• And Los Angeles, long synonymous with carbophobia and anti-gluten mania, has become an unlikely bakery and bread haven.They were sworn into service, required to wear regulation uniforms and saw the horrors of war.But when the Hello Girls returned home to the U.S. after World War I, they were largely forgotten.Today is International Women’s Day, a global recognition of women’s achievements. We’re looking back more than 100 years to recognize the place in history of a group of 223 women.In 1917, on the eve of the U.S. entry into World War I, the U.S. government drafted 2.8 million men into military service. The Army realized that its success would rely on the Allies’ use of a new technology: the telephone.AdvertisementEnter the Hello Girls, a group of bilingual telephone operators selected for working the switchboards in France, connecting the front lines with supply depots and military command. They often handled over 150,000 calls per day.But because they were women, the U.S. government denied them veteran status for more than 60 years after the war.“The unfortunate reality is their service wasn’t officially recognized with veteran status until 1979, when a small fraction of those who served were still alive,” a senior curator at the National World War I Museum and Memorial said. “To achieve that point of hard-won recognition took a monumental effort.”Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PATRICK BOEHLERMARCH 7, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Optimism on the Korean Peninsula, turmoil at the White House and the latest from the Champions League. Here’s the news: • North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, said that his country was willing to begin talks with the U.S. on giving up nuclear weapons — at least according to South Korean officials.President Trump cautiously welcomed the “possible progress.” He now faces a prospect uncannily similar to that of his predecessors.Meanwhile, the U.S. imposed new sanctions on the North over the assassination last year of Mr. Kim’s estranged half brother._____• For the first time, U.N. investigators have accused Russian forces of a specific war crime in Syria: airstrikes on a market last year that killed scores of civilians.AdvertisementSeparately, Britain vowed to retaliate if investigators conclude that Moscow ordered the poisoning of a former spy, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter in southern England.AdvertisementThe foreign secretary said that the case had “echoes” of the death of Alexander Litvinenko, who was poisoned in 2006. (But unlike Mr. Litvinenko, Mr. Skripal kept a low profile.)_____• “There is no Chaos, only great Energy!”That was President Trump dismissing reports of turmoil in his White House. “I still have some people that I want to change (always seeking perfection),” he wrote on Twitter, forecasting more resignations.The latest to go is Gary Cohn, above left, the top economic adviser. Insiders told us the catalyst for the resignation was Mr. Trump’s decision to impose tariffs on metal imports. Mr. Cohn has long said that such a move could jeopardize economic growth.Separately, the Justice Department is suing California over immigration laws that oppose Mr. Trump’s agenda. It is its boldest attack yet on the state._____• Uber revealed that its self-driving trucks have been carrying commercial cargo in the U.S. for months. (Licensed drivers have still been at the wheel, ready to take over in an emergency.)Researchers are trying to better understand machine-made decisions, like how a self-driving truck responds to emergencies, in a new field that some call artificial neuroscience.The vast majority of Americans expect artificial intelligence to lead to job losses in the coming decade, a new study revealed, but few workers feel personally threatened.Advertisement_____• In soccer news, Real Madrid eliminated Paris Saint-Germain from the Champions League. It was a humbling defeat for a team that has been constructed, at almost unimaginable cost, to win the trophy.Separately, a match between Iraq and Saudi Arabia was the first major game on Iraqi soil since 1990. “We see something like this and finally we feel hope this situation will get better,” an Iraqi fan told us at the stadium.And members of the U.S. women’s national soccer team have become sounding boards and guides for others fighting for pay equality. The team has a record of success at the negotiating table and on the field.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• European carmakers are scrambling to produce new lines of electric, hybrid and plug-in models to meet a growing demand. Here’s our preview of the Geneva motor show, which opens to the public on Thursday.• The U.S. inquiry into the proposed takeover of Qualcomm is part of a global fight over access to emerging technologies with national security implications. (One such technology is the next generation of wireless known as 5G.)• Should Facebook pay us for our puppy pictures? Getting companies to pay for the information they reap from people’s online lives may benefit both sides, our columnist writes.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• “I will not marry, sir. I want to study.” In India, awareness about underage marriages, and stronger responses from the authorities, have caused a decrease in the practice. (Above, a man accused of selling his teenage daughter.) [The New York Times]•  Sierra Leone’s next president, to be elected today in what officials hope will be a peaceful democratic transition, faces huge economic challenges. [The New York Times]Advertisement• A Russian military plane crashed at an air base in Syria, killing all 33 passengers and six crew members, according to the Russian Defense Ministry. [The New York Times]• Sri Lanka imposed a nationwide state of emergency after mobs of Sinhalese Buddhists attacked Muslims in a central district. [The New York Times]• Expect protests over the war in Yemen today in London as the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, visits Britain. He will visit Washington later this month. [Reuters]•  President Emmanuel Macron of France pledged to increase the number of prison cells and expand the use of house arrests to tackle prison overcrowding. [Reuters]• A pornographic-film actress has filed a lawsuit, in which she claims President Trump refused to sign a nondisclosure agreement about their affair so that he could later disavow any knowledge of it. [The New York Times]• For the first time, a criminal court in Belgium convicted a man of “sexism in the public space.” It fined him 3,000 euros for verbally abusing a female police officer. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Our columnist, who has been writing about science and health for The Times for 52 years, offers her personal secrets to lasting weight loss.• Learn the best way to talk to teenagers about vaping. (Some countries have banned e-cigarettes.)• Recipe of the day: Cumin-roasted salmon with a vinegary herb sauce will cure the midweek blues.Advertisement• For generations, artist-run spaces and collectives have sprung up across Copenhagen, the Danish capital. (Above, an installation at London’s Tate Modern by the Superflex collective.)• France has assigned experts to draw up plans for the repatriation of looted African artifacts displayed in French museums.• Olivia de Havilland, the 101-year-old Oscar-winning actress, is suing one of the most powerful companies in show business to challenge a portrayal of her.• The Bavarian State Opera in Munich has been one of the recent success stories in classical music. Its next leaders have big shoes to fill.• Backyard gardens and other small urban green spaces can provide unexpected benefits in the fight against climate change, a new study shows.This week is the anniversary of the birth of Gabriel García Márquez, the Colombian novelist, who was affectionately known as Gabo in Latin America.Born on March 6, 1927, García Márquez defined the writing style known as magical realism, but his escapades in real life were just as noteworthy.He started his career as a journalist, at one point enraging the Colombian dictator Gen. Gustavo Rojas Pinilla so much that García Márquez fled to Europe for two years.AdvertisementHe became such close friends with Fidel Castro that he would show the Cuban leader drafts of his unpublished books.At one point, he vowed never to write as long as the Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet remained in power (a promise that was broken long before Pinochet’s 17-year reign ended).And after being denied a U.S. visa for more than three decades, García Márquez arrived in America in 1995, at the invitation of President Bill Clinton.Before García Márquez died in 2014, a friend said the title of the author’s memoir summed up his life. “All his motivation is contained in that title, ‘To Live to Tell It’ — it is the pleasure of telling the story,” said the friend, Jaime Abello.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing misstated the circumstances of a 1995 visit to the United States by the Colombian novelist Gabriel García Márquez. A longtime travel ban against García Márquez was lifted that year, but it was not the author’s first trip to the country.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By INYOUNG KANG and CHARLES McDERMIDMARCH 6, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Here’s what you need to know. • A Korean breakthrough or more of the same? North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, said that his country is willing to begin talks with the U.S. on giving up its nuclear weapons — at least according to South Korean officials.Above, President Moon Jae-in, center, was briefed by envoys who returned Tuesday from North Korea.If the South’s statement is corroborated, it would be the first time that Mr. Kim has indicated a willingness to negotiate away his nuclear weapons in return for security guarantees from the U.S.President Trump welcomed the “possible progress,” but others were cautious. As our White House correspondent explains, the U.S. and North Korea have gone through similar cycles of brief hope and then disappointment._____• “There is no Chaos, only great Energy!”That was President Trump dismissing reports of turmoil in his White House after a flurry of top-level resignations and as the investigation into Russian election meddling inches closer to his inner circle.AdvertisementWe learned that Gary Cohn, Mr. Trump’s top economic adviser, plans to resign. His free-trade views clashed with Mr. Trump’s threatened metal tariffs.AdvertisementThe president has insisted that he won’t back down from his plan to impose the tariffs — a move clearly aimed at China, which makes roughly as much steel as the rest of the world combined.Here’s an explainer on the complex and longstanding steel dispute between the U.S. and China._____• Broadcom’s takeover of rival chip-maker Qualcomm — a deal worth about $117 billion — appears doomed after a U.S. government panel said the Singapore firm’s bid could pose a risk to national security.The panel, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or Cfius, said that the deal could weaken “Qualcomm’s technological leadership,” giving an edge to Chinese companies like Huawei.What is Cfius? One mergers and acquisitions expert called it the “ultimate regulatory bazooka.” Another said it has been “turbocharged” by the Trump administration. Here’s a look at the panel and its powerful role in major deals._____• Britain’s foreign secretary called Russia “a malign force around the world,” and vowed to retaliate if investigators find that Moscow is behind the apparent poisoning of a former Russian intelligence officer and his daughter in southern England.The former spy, Sergei Skripal, 66, and his 33-year-old daughter were reported to be critically ill after being exposed to “an unknown substance.” Once jailed in Russia for selling secrets, Mr. Skripal was resettled in Britain in a 2010 spy exchange.The “major incident” has drawn comparisons to the case of Alexander Litvinenko, a former Russian spy who was fatally poisoned in London in 2006.Advertisement_____• “It’s always good when you find new penguins.”Satellite images and a drone discovered about 1.5 million Adélie penguins living in the Danger Islands off Antarctica.The discovery of the new colony substantially increases the known populations of the knee-high creatures and has raised questions about how they’re finding enough food.What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters._____• Artificial intelligence makes it relatively easy to create deceptive videos, putting one person’s face on another person’s body with few traces of manipulation. Our reporter tried it on himself and concluded that we would soon have to “trust our eyes a little less every day.”• Kobe Steel said its chief executive would resign after a falsified data scandal that has tarnished Japan’s reputation for quality.• Porsche has already shown off an all-electric sedan, the Mission E, which is expected to compete with Tesla’s Model S. Now it’s ramping up its answer to Tesla’s charging stations. • In Japan, “Super Monster Wolf,” a robot with fur, fangs and flashing eyes designed to scare wild boars away from crops, has been such a hit that it’s going into mass production.• U.S. stocks were mixed. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Sri Lanka imposed a nationwide state of emergency after mobs of Sinhalese, the majority ethnic group, attacked dozens of Muslim businesses and houses, and at least one mosque. [The New York Times]• Australia and East Timor will sign a treaty that establishes the first-ever maritime border between the countries, resolving years of bitter wrangling in a deal that divides billions of dollars’ worth of oil and gas beneath the Timor Sea. [A.P.]Advertisement• Myanmar is continuing its ethnic cleansing of Rohingya, making it “inconceivable” that any would be able to return in the near future, a U.N. human rights envoy said. [Al Jazeera]• A Russian military plane crashed at an air base in Syria, killing all 26 passengers and six crew members, according to the Russian Defense Ministry. [The New York Times]• A South Korean presidential hopeful, Ahn Hee Jung, is the first major politician to be disgraced in a growing #MeToo movement in the country. [The New York Times]• Australian experts confirmed that a family from Perth found the world’s oldest known message in a bottle, dated June 12, 1886. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Our columnist, who has been writing about science and health for The Times for 52 years, offers her personal secrets to lasting weight loss.• Learn the best way to talk to teenagers about vaping. (Some countries have banned e-cigarettes.)• Recipe of the day: Cumin-roasted salmon with a vinegary herb sauce will cure the midweek blues.• “Last chance travel”: Tourist operators are catering to the growing number of travelers who want to experience disappearing cultures and natural habitats before they are irrevocably altered or vanish.• “I will not marry, sir. I want to study.” In India, awareness about underage marriages, and stronger responses from the authorities, has caused a decrease in the practice.Advertisement• And soccer, it turns out, has a power to help people with dementia. Our correspondent visited an inspiring English community health program that helps a team’s fans remember its highs and lows.This week is the anniversary of the birth of Gabriel García Márquez, the Colombian novelist who was affectionately known as Gabo in Latin America.Born on March 6, 1927, García Márquez defined the writing style known as magical realism, but his escapades in real life were just as noteworthy.He started his career as a journalist, at one point enraging the Colombian dictator Gen. Gustavo Rojas Pinilla so much that García Márquez fled to Europe for two years.He became such close friends with Fidel Castro that he would show the Cuban leader drafts of his unpublished books.At one point, he vowed never to write as long as the Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet remained in power (a promise that was broken long before Pinochet’s 17-year reign ended).And after being denied a U.S. visa for more than three decades, García Márquez arrived in America for the first time in 1995, at the invitation of President Bill Clinton.Before García Márquez died, in 2014, a friend said the title of Gabo’s memoir summed up his life: “All his motivation is contained in that title, ‘To Live to Tell It’ — it is the pleasure of telling the story,” Jaime Abello said.AdvertisementAnna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By TANYA MOHNMARCH 7, 2018
Teri Reynolds has undertaken a bold challenge: to help develop and improve emergency care systems around the globe.“There are still many, many places in the world where there is no 911 or 112 number, no formal ambulance system, and where, even once someone has arrived at the hospital, there may be no dedicated emergency unit with providers trained to manage emergencies,” said Dr. Reynolds, scientist for the Department for Management of Noncommunicable Diseases, Disability, Violence and Injury Prevention at the World Health Organization.“There are people who bleed to death sitting in metal chairs,” she said, if there “is no system for recognizing critical patients and making sure that they are treated first.”The goal of the emergency, trauma and acute care program she leads is to provide the technical resources countries need to strengthen emergency care affordably. She works alongside policymakers and providers to identify system gaps; develop standards, basic training courses and tools; and implement assessments.Advertisement“It’s basically about getting care to people and people to care — rapidly — whether that’s for a family injured in a car crash, a child with pneumonia, an adult with a heart attack or a woman bleeding in pregnancy,” Dr. Reynolds said.AdvertisementOf 194 W.H.O. member countries, dozens have almost no organized emergency care system, and no dedicated emergency units or triage at most hospitals, and dozens more have serious gaps in basic supplies and equipment.“These are not costly or complicated interventions, but simple lifesaving measures that can and should be made available to the acutely ill and injured everywhere,” said Dr. Reynolds, a 48-year-old American based in Geneva.Her recent work has taken her to Cameroon, Egypt, Myanmar, Pakistan, Tunisia, Uganda and Ukraine. Her next stop is Kazakhstan.“Being able to call a number and get rapid transport to quality emergency care is a luxury currently afforded only to a limited number of countries,” she said. “People really think when they go off to travel, for education or vacation, that someone will be there if they get hit by a bus. That’s just not the case.”Dr. Reynolds announced her plan to become a doctor when she was 8, inspired in part by her pediatrician. “We moved a lot in my childhood — I went to 10 schools before I graduated high school — and there was a good bit of chaos, but somehow my mother managed to take me to see him over many years,” she said. “Almost no one in my family had gone to college, and his was a powerful example of an important, concrete job that I could understand.”She went to Columbia University as a pre-med student on a full scholarship, and trained as an emergency medical technician on an ambulance in Chinatown “because it seemed more like the real world.” But she got hooked on the school’s mandatory Great Books program. “Literature, history, philosophy — books I’d never been exposed to growing up,” she said. “I was just blown away by what I was learning, and when I got the chance to stay for graduate school on a fellowship, I did.” She earned a doctorate in literature, but the desire to become a physician never left.She attended the University of California, San Francisco, School of Medicine, where she was drawn to emergency medicine. “What I loved best was having one foot in the world and one in the hospital — the process of moving from a patient’s account to a diagnosis, having to build a relationship quickly.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In 2010, she described that experience in the London-based New Left Review. “I spent my early childhood in a trailer” in Texas, she wrote, “so, until I became an emergency physician in Oakland, I thought I knew something about barriers to health care access, and maybe even something about poverty.” Residency training at a public county hospital taught her, she said recently, about how social context affects illness, about how to work creatively with whatever is at hand, and about the enormous range of human experience, even in a wealthy country like the United States.Advertisement“I first met Teri early in her medical career, when she was starting her emergency medicine residency in California in a gritty, inner-city hospital,” said Michael Callaham, professor emeritus of emergency medicine at the San Francisco medical school, who was her supervisor during that time and when she was a resident fellow with the Annals of Emergency Medicine, and gave her her first faculty job. “It’s not often you get a medical trainee with a Ph.D. in English literature,” said Dr. Callaham, who remains the scientific journal’s editor in chief.Dr. Reynolds said that women were still outnumbered in emergency medical care globally, but that that was slowly changing. “I still sit in many meetings around the world where there are few women at the table and none at the head,” she said. But the W.H.O. has put many women in the top positions, and for the first time recently, the majority of its assistant directors general are women. The gender distribution “will impact the tone around the world,” she said. “There are many young women emerging into leadership in the field, and I can’t wait to see what they do.”One of the greatest pleasures in her current job, she said, is working with young doctors whose paths crossed when they were students, interns and residents, and who are now leaders of emergency care programs in their respective countries. “They are really impressive,” Dr. Reynolds said. “It’s incredible to see them across the table, sent to represent national programs at meetings where I represent W.H.O.”Dr. Reynolds is quick to credit her many mentors over the years. “It really has led to this perfect job. It’s exactly what I hoped for — and more. Medicine can be a very conservative career path, but a lot of people along the way encouraged me to take risks and gave me room to do it,” from childhood teachers, university deans and medical school professors to her mother, who grew up in rural Mississippi, the youngest of eight.“She left an impossible home situation at 15 and made her way to Houston, where I grew up. She raised me on her own; my father is from India, but left before I was born. She had a lot of jobs when I was young — cocktail waitress, wig shop, laundromat manager — but she finished college when I was 10 and became a substance abuse counselor,” Dr. Reynolds said.“She taught me the pleasure of learning, the importance of connecting, and taught me how to be very, very stubborn about getting certain things done. She’s always insisted that it is important to ‘be of use.’” When she was growing up, her mother always told her “you’re a neat kid,” Dr. Reynolds recounted. “She still says that, and it still feels just as good.”A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By VANESSA FRIEDMANMARCH 6, 2018
PARIS — On the penultimate night of fashion month, amid the final paroxysms of designers attempting to define how women want to look today, there was a show of a different kind.Emmanuel Macron, president of France, and his wife, Brigitte, hosted a dinner at the Élysée Palace in honor of the industry’s creatives. It was the fashion equivalent of the pre-Davos C.E.O. summit that Mr. Macron engineered at Versailles in January. News began to leak out early in the week.Pierpaolo Piccioli, creative director of Valentino, who had come to Paris without a suit and had to go shopping at the Valentino boutique, emailed Haider Ackermann, creative director of Berluti: “Are you going to the dinner at the Élysée?”“What dinner?” Mr. Ackermann replied. Then he got the invite. He had gone to Los Angeles directly after his own label’s show on Saturday to dress Timothée Chalamet and Mahershala Ali in Berluti for the Oscars, so after he got them ready, he got back on a plane and flew home. He wasn’t going to miss this one.It was a big deal. French fashion hadn’t had this kind of official recognition from the head of state since François Mitterrand was president in the 1980s (another ‘80s revival trend! It’s inescapable). Natacha Ramsay-Levi of Chloé introduced herself to Clare Waight Keller, formerly of Chloé and now of Givenchy, because they had never met. Alber Elbaz hobnobbed with Vivienne Westwood. Joseph Altuzarra hung out with Olivier Theyskens. At the head table, Thom Browne sat near Olivier Rousteing of Balmain, who sat cater-corner to Simon Porte Jacquemus and across from Maria Grazia Chiuri of Dior. And so on.AdvertisementAmong the very few designers missing were Nicolas Ghesquière of Louis Vuitton and Karl Lagerfeld of Chanel, but then both had shows on the final day. It was O.K.: They were represented by their work. Mrs. Macron was wearing an elaborate Louis XVI coat from Mr. Ghesquière’s last collection, much to the amusement of some guests (“You know what happened to that king,” one said) — though she accessorized it with her own high heels, as opposed to the runway sneakers. Anna Wintour was wearing Chanel.
CreditRegis Colin Berthelier/Nowfashion        Before dinner (and after the family photo), Mr. Macron made a speech welcoming everyone and encouraging them to “choose France.”Advertisement“My deepest wish is that creators, whether they come from India, Japan, Africa, the United States or China, will consider coming to our country,” he said, adding that at a time of looming threat and rising nationalism, his choice was to “be more open,” to “believe in Europe and globalization,” because those values were French values, and fashion was, and could be, part of that.In a room full of designers from all over — many of whom had indeed made Paris their adopted city — it struck a chord. But then, it’s been a strikingly diverse season, in terms of both the model lineup, which seems to have genuinely become more variegated, and the clothes. Change is on everyone’s mind: good, bad, what have you. You could see it on the catwalks that sandwiched the evening.You could see it, for example, on the afternoon before the dinner at Giambattista Valli, king of the high/low party dress, who opened his show not with a flirt of chiffon but with a dark denim boiler suit, and then interspersed among the floral frippery and sequined minidresses some 1970s leathers, mini knit vests and long, narrow traveling coats. It’s a promising direction: Here’s hoping he does more of it, and that he has the courage to leave some of the ruffles behind.
CreditRegis Colin Berthelier/Nowfashion        You could see it at Alexander McQueen, where Sarah Burton (who went almost straight from her catwalk bow to her place at the table close to Mr. Macron) took the idea of metamorphosis, of emerging from the chrysalis, both literally and elegantly.Tuxedo suits emerged from the exploded bindings of red leather corsetry. Silk dresses and coats were marked by monarch prints. A quilted green leather parka had a collar that folded down to frame the neck, like the upper wings of a butterfly; zippers undone at the waist dropped the coat’s skirt, suggesting the lower parts. Elaborately embroidered iridescent jeweled scarabs covered the body of a sheer tulle dress. Floor-length silk fringe created a motile surface on capes and gowns, ever adrift in the wind. A pink taffeta minidress sprouted two enormous ruffs at the shoulders. They looked as though they were about to start flapping and fly away.
CreditRegis Colin Berthelier/Nowfashion        And you could see it Chanel, held the morning after the dinner, though Mr. Lagerfeld had a more somber transition on the mind. Specifically a seasonal transition, a once-upon-a-time thing that seems almost shrouded in myth these days. So he took his audience, and his collection, into the woods in his usual way. The floor of the Grand Palais was strewn with browning, fallen leaves and tufts of moss, and surrounded by walls papered with pictures of a bare-limbed forest. The slightly sweet, cloying fragrance of rotting foliage hung in the air.In the middle, a row of lone oaks stood, dwarfing the models as they appeared, striding in flat shoes and boots mottled in gold and bronze leaf. Their twiglike silhouettes were drawn by long, lean skirts and short boxy jackets, or tunics with unstructured peplums at the hips over straight knee-length skirts. The colors — in soft knits and tufted furs and tweed bouclés and one Matisse-like leaf print — faded into the ground like natural camouflage. At the end, a series of lacy dresses under Chanelized puffer jackets looked so delicate they could crumble at a touch, as if to remind everyone that change marks not only a beginning, but an ending.AdvertisementNot that anyone was really thinking like that at the Élysée, where Mr. Macron happily took selfies as requested and where the dinner was buffet, so everyone was forced to mill around and mix and not stand on protocol. And where, in perhaps the most unexpected fashion moment of the night, Stella McCartney Facetimed her father, Paul McCartney, so he could speak to Mr. Macron, and everyone converged, in a fit of fandom for both, around her phone.Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.A version of this review appears in print on March 7, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ZEPHYR TEACHOUTMARCH 5, 2018
WE THE CORPORATIONS How American Businesses Won Their Civil Rights By Adam Winkler Illustrated. 472 pp. Liveright Publishing. $28.95.Around 300 B.C., the Romans invented a new way for a group of people to buy property and enter into contracts. Instead of making deals with a partner or set of partners, people could use a legal fiction that they were an entity, a societas publicanorum. This new institution was owned and controlled by investors, but legally separate from them. The privilege to act as a societas publicanorum was rare, and required a decree by the Roman Senate or the emperor.Nearly 2,000 years later, versions of this legal innovation came to be used by English businesses, churches, guilds and cities, and by the investors behind the Virginia Company in colonial America. They were known as corporations. Like the societas publicanorum, corporations required a special charter from the king, giving its owners powerful but limited rights: the right to collectively hold property, form contracts and have access to the courts. Corporations were quasi-public, and each corporate charter was unique, comprising highly detailed rules including how much the corporation could charge for its products. Eventually, corporate investors gained a special prize: the privilege of limited liability, which allowed them to avoid personal legal responsibility for the corporation’s actions.These corporations did not merely come to America; according to Adam Winkler, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, arguably they founded it. From 1607, when the Virginia Company established the Jamestown colony, corporations have been inextricably embedded in American life, Winkler maintains in his excellent and timely new book, “We the Corporations.” The corporation of the British East India Company inspired the colonists in a different way. The bailout of the company by England — including the Tea Act of 1773, which lowered the price of tea in the colonies while preserving the tax colonists paid on it — infringed the colonial charters and led to the protests that were instrumental in sparking the Revolutionary War.Winkler’s chief contribution is to show how corporations have been some of the most important innovators in American law, shaping it for good and often ill. Since the early days of the Republic, corporations have invested substantial capital in some of the country’s most talented and charismatic lawyers, pushed risky lawsuits and been on the “cutting edge” of rights-making. They have not been passive recipients of legal change but, rather, among its most significant architects.AdvertisementWinkler frames this history provocatively, as an ongoing “civil rights” movement for corporations, which “have pursued a longstanding, strategic effort to establish and expand” their rights in American constitutional law. He proves his thesis by recounting two dozen critical moments when corporations pushed the limits of existing law and mostly won new rights. While the corporation of early America was an “artificial person” — Blackstone’s term — for purposes of property ownership, contracts and lawsuits alone, Winkler shows how “today corporations have nearly all the same rights as individuals: freedom of speech, freedom of the press, religious liberty, due process, equal protection, freedom from unreasonable searches and seizures, the right to counsel, the right against double jeopardy and the right to trial by jury.”AdvertisementCorporations have rarely won rights by trumpeting their own importance, or openly arguing for civil rights. Instead, over generations, they have succeeded by claiming that corporate rights are necessary and useful tools for vindicating the rights of others — of people. In the first major corporate-rights case, in 1809, the issue was whether a bank had the right to sue in federal court. Given the politics of the time, the bank was likely to lose in state court. The problem was that the Constitution gave access to federal court only to “citizens.” Instead of trying to argue that a corporation is a person qua person, the bank’s lawyer insisted that the rights of the owners — an association of people — would be trampled on if the bank couldn’t be heard in federal court. The Supreme Court acquiesced.One hundred and seventy years later, in another bank case, the question was similar but more momentous: Did Massachusetts have the right to limit corporate spending around popular referendums? In this case, First National Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, the Supreme Court concluded that it violated the First Amendment rights of the people of Massachusetts for the state to discriminate among different sources of information. It was not that the bank had a right to speak but that the public had a right to hear the views of the bank, and the state had no right to outlaw those communications merely because they came from a corporation. The bank won the lawsuit, because it stood in for the rights of the people who might want to hear its political views. Winkler contributes fascinating original reporting to this case, uncovering notes between justices and clerks that changed the outcome of the case, which in turn laid the groundwork for the decision in Citizens United.
            Keep up with the latest and greatest in books. The New York Times Book Review has curated a calendar of must-know literary events in 2018, including new books, festivals, film adaptations, and more.        
    Keep up with the latest and greatest in books. The New York Times Book Review has curated a calendar of must-know literary events in 2018, including new books, festivals, film adaptations, and more.
  
April 6
In Case You Missed It

April 10
London Book Fair

April 10
The Aspen Words Literary Prize
DEC. 26, 2017
Much of the value of Winkler’s book lies in his elegant stitching together of 400 years of diverse cases, allowing us to feel the sweep and flow of history and the constantly shifting legal approaches to understanding this unusual entity — Blackstone’s “artificial person.” Four hundred years is a lot of time, and Winkler does a wonderful job of finding illustrative details without drowning in them, and of giving each case enough attention to make it come alive. However, there is one somewhat shocking lacuna. He fails to consider the revolution in monopoly law in the last 40 years. Beginning in the 1970s, a group of activist lawyers associated with the University of Chicago persuaded courts to gut well-established principles designed to protect open markets and decentralized power, and to replace them with an ideology of efficiency that has contributed to our current crisis of monopoly capitalism and inequality. Winkler mentions the Chicago school in passing, but he doesn’t address the post-1980 antitrust cases, a striking oversight because they fit neatly into his theory: Corporate monopolies gained rights by asserting that they benefited the rights of others (in this case, consumers).Despite this omission, Winkler’s book provides a masterful retrospective map at a time when people are feeling bewildered and enraged by growing corporate power. In essence, he offers an important answer to the question “How did we get here?” Of course, there are two kinds of answers to that question — the literal and the structural. The literalist will tell you what buses and trains and ferries you took to get from your old house to your new house; the structuralist will explain why you moved across the country in the first place. Winkler is largely in the literalist camp. One case follows another; the justices change; a mistake is made and exploited and ripples through time; a magnetic lawyer sways the Supreme Court. History is made by people, by accident, by ambition, by carelessness, even by lies that get repeated often enough that they become true — a mishmash of purpose, greed, intelligence and errata.Winkler’s historical lens is both maddening and refreshing, for the same reason. It’s maddening because he often deals lightly with major forks in the road. In 1946, the Supreme Court justice Hugo Black proposed an alternative way to think about big corporations, as quasi governments. Black wrote the majority opinion in Marsh v. Alabama, arguing that when corporations take on the role of governments, they must be subject to the limitations we put on governmental power. Had Black’s logic been taken more seriously, it would have reshaped American rules regarding corporate power. Winkler spends several pages on the case but doesn’t persuasively explain why Black’s argument never took hold. In Dartmouth College v. Woodward, a pathbreaking case from 1819 establishing that corporations are private entities over which a state has limited control, much of Winkler’s narration focuses on Daniel Webster’s mesmerizing advocacy skills. History has reasons, but in Winkler’s telling those reasons are often dependent on individuals, not broad ideological shifts.Yet this breeziness is refreshing because the book is anti-deterministic. Winkler chronicles the comically bad legal arguments made by the ethics-challenged Louisiana attorney general Gaston Porterie in a 1936 case about the constitutionality of an advertising tax — and the scope of the freedom of the press protection. If something as small as Porterie’s gaffe in citing the wrong clause of the Constitution changed history, history can change again with a strong push in a different direction. By nailing down the absurdities of the past, Winkler allows us to see how the future becomes more open.We need neither abolish corporations nor accept them as they are; we can instead fight for new laws and for new Supreme Court justices. If we don’t like how corporations have appropriated civil rights in the name of citizens, we can change that.Zephyr Teachout is an associate professor of law at Fordham University and the author of “Corruption in America: From Benjamin Franklin’s Snuff Box to Citizens United.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter, and sync your calendar with curated literary events.A version of this review appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page BR1 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: ‘We the Corporations’.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.By PENN BULLOCK and CHARLES McDERMIDMARCH 4, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Trade wars, Vatican scandals and the four-minute mile. Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump’s threat to impose steep tariffs on steel and aluminum resounded around the world — with a metallic clang.Canada signaled that it would retaliate. In Europe, there was angry talk of raising barriers to signature U.S. products like Harley-Davidsons, bluejeans and Kentucky bourbon. Beijing responded more cautiously, possibly because the effects to China could be limited.Mr. Trump seemed unbothered, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”_____• “Maybe we’ll have to give that a shot some day.”That was President Trump blessing China’s proposal to lift presidential term limits, which will almost certainly be passed as the tightly choreographed National People’s Congress unfolds in Beijing this week. Mr. Trump’s remark may have been tongue-in-cheek, but Chinese analysts took it seriously.AdvertisementAbove, President Xi Jinping at the Great Hall of the People on Saturday.A U.S. aircraft carrier, meanwhile, is steaming to Vietnam to deliver a different message to China. It’s the first visit by a large U.S. military contingent since the end of the Vietnam War — suggesting how China’s expansion is bringing the former enemies together. (The itinerary includes a visit to a center for victims of Agent Orange, the U.S. defoliant.)Advertisement_____• Cardinal George Pell, the Vatican’s third-highest-ranking official, will go before a Melbourne court to determine if there’s enough evidence for him to stand trial over “historical sexual offenses.”The case will be a test of Australia’s justice system and the Vatican’s efforts to hold clergy members accountable after decades of abuse scandals. Cardinal Pell, shown above in June, has denied the accusations.Here’s a guide to what we know and what we don’t._____• South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, is sending two of his closest aides to North Korea to meet its reclusive leader, Kim Jong-un.The trip’s goal is to jump-start dialogue between the North and the U.S. But Washington is insisting that any talks be centered on denuclearization, and Pyongyang has again rejected such a precondition. Above, President Trump and Mr. Moon on television in Seoul on Friday.Our reporter investigated North Korea’s deep ties to Egypt, where the North’s embassy is believed to be a clearinghouse for illicit arms sales._____• The Oscars are upon us. Here’s our live briefing.Our Carpetbagger columnist made her predictions of the winners, and you can cast your own vote here. (More than 40,000 readers have voted in the Best Picture category, and “The Shape of Water” got the highest percentage of votes.)We’ll see if the Academy agrees. We looked at recent statistics, and one thing was clear: Hit movies rarely win Best Picture.Advertisement_____What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Chaos has engulfed the tallest building in Panama — the Trump International Hotel and Tower — as an investor seeks to evict the Trump Organization’s management team.• HNA Group, the Chinese conglomerate, racked up $50 billion in big purchases and investments in companies like Hilton Hotels, Deutsche Bank and Virgin Australia. Now it’s facing $90 billion in debt, and one-third of that is due this year.• Harvard, the world’s richest university, lost about $1 billion betting on natural resources, including vineyards, teak forests and a cotton farm in Australia.• Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s governing Bharatiya Janta Party consolidated power in India’s northeast over the weekend, gaining control over five of the seven states that border Myanmar, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh. [Reuters]• The authorities in India detained a member of a far-right Hindu group in connection with the killing of Gauri Lankesh, a journalist whose work was sharply critical of the governing Bharatiya Janata Party. [The New York Times]• Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, embroiled in a bribery scandal in Israel, meets President Trump in Washington. His visit carries great consequence for Israel’s historically close U.S. ties. [The New York Times]• In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel is set to form a new government with the Social Democrats, ending six months of political limbo. [The New York Times]• The world’s longest-imprisoned journalist was freed in Uzbekistan. Yusuf Ruzimuradov, accused of sedition, was released after 19 years. [The New York Times]Advertisement• “I just happened to take it back into the house.” A 74-year-old Japanese homeowner found a meteroite in his garden that may help explain the formation of the solar system. [The Asahi Shimbun]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Social disconnection is a serious matter. But let’s not whip up a panic.• Decide when to mention at work that you have young children.• Recipe of the day: Roasted cauliflower and blue cheese make for a satisfying, meatless pasta dinner.• Our own Adam Ferguson, who was named photographer of the year. His work included images of Nigerian girls that Boko Haram recruited as suicide bombers, above, and of a road trip through the Australian outback, where he was born.• In memoriam. Roger Bannister, the first athlete to break the four-minute mile, in 1954; David Ogden Stiers, 75, an American actor best known for playing Maj. Charles Winchester III on the TV series “M*A*S*H”• And the New Zealand police plan to re-examine the case of a teenager who tried to shoot Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip in 1981, and who was never charged with attempted murder.You might expect to find advice about how to reject a marriage proposal in the Smarter Living section of the Morning Briefing.But it’s relevant for today’s Back Story. On this day in 1839, Charlotte Brontë wrote what might be considered a classic rejection letter (eight years before the publication of her best-known work, “Jane Eyre”).AdvertisementHer suitor was the Rev. Henry Nussey, the brother of her close friend Ellen. He proposed by letter, shortly before Brontë’s 23rd birthday. She responded a few days later, kindly but firmly:“Before answering your letter, I might have spent a long time in consideration of its subject; but as from the first moment of its reception and perusal I determined on which course to pursue, it seemed to me that delay was wholly unnecessary.”She offered a face-saving explanation: “I have no personal repugnance to the idea of a union with you — but I feel convinced that mine is not the sort of disposition calculated to form the happiness of a man like you.”Brontë went on to publish a collection of poetry with her sisters Emily and Anne in 1846. Her novel “Jane Eyre” was published the next year under the male pseudonym Currer Bell, which was based partly on the name of the man whose marriage proposal she did accept (after two tries): Arthur Bell Nicholls.Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MIRIAM JORDANMARCH 4, 2018
It is known as the “Einstein visa.” Nuclear scientists, Nobel laureates and doctors get it. But so do acrobats, stunt men, event planners — and plenty of models.Each year, thousands of foreigners try to persuade government officials that they are among the best in their field. The prize if they succeed: a green card, and with it, the right to live permanently in the United States.Reports that the first lady, Melania Trump, received an immigrant visa reserved for “individuals with extraordinary ability” in 2001, when she was a model, have thrust the EB-1 visa program into the spotlight. The news, first reported by The Washington Post, raised questions about whether Mrs. Trump had truly qualified for the visa.But several immigration lawyers rebuffed those questions, saying the requirements for the EB-1 immigrant visa leave far more room for interpretation than its nickname and its best-and-brightest reputation suggest.AdvertisementWhile the program may be the pinnacle of the merit-based immigration policies supported by critics of the visa lottery and family-based migration — indeed, by President Trump himself — the decision of what constitutes merit, while based on established criteria, is ultimately subjective and often surprising.Advertisement“Recipients are supposed to be the best of the best,” said Rita Sostrin, a Los Angeles-based lawyer who has written extensively about EB-1s, “but meeting the criteria is no guarantee. An adjudication officer makes a judgment call.”The “extraordinary ability” immigrant visa category is one of the few visas for which an applicant does not require an employer or family sponsor. Only 5,530 people received a green card through that program in the fiscal year that ended in September 2016, the latest for which data is available, out of some one million issued. In 2001, when Mrs. Trump got hers, even fewer were granted.Marshall Cohen, a lawyer in Atlanta who specializes in EB-1s for world-ranked track and field athletes, said that he would not have hesitated to represent Mrs. Trump.“I am assuming she made a lot of money, got a lot of press and was on the cover of magazines,” he said. “She was probably a pretty easy case.”Mrs. Trump, then Melania Knauss, appeared on the cover of British GQ in 2000, the year she petitioned for the EB-1, and was featured in Sports Illustrated and other magazines later that year.“Do we need more foreign fashion models? Some might say no,” said Mr. Cohen, who led a panel titled “Proving Extraordinary Ability Is Extraordinarily Challenging” at a recent immigration lawyers’ conference. “We might need more chemical engineers. But if there is a fashion model at the top of her field, she could qualify.”Petitioners for the EB-1, which was created as part of the Immigration Act of 1990, face a two-part test. The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services first must determine whether a candidate has presented evidence to satisfy three out of 10 criteria, such as publishing material in professional publications or other major media, appearing in artistic exhibitions or commanding a high salary.AdvertisementOnce those are met, the decision comes down to a vague and undefined “final merits determination” by the immigration agency.“That is the mystery; nobody knows what it is,” said Ms. Sostrin, the lawyer in Los Angeles, who recently secured EB-1s for an award-winning stunt performer and a high-end events planner.What is clear is that extraordinary intelligence is not necessary — nor sufficient on its own — to get one. Indeed, even Albert Einstein might have not qualified for an EB-1 before winning the Nobel Prize.A few years ago, Ms. Sostrin distributed a résumé to immigration lawyers at a conference without revealing that it was Einstein’s, or at least one devised from his career accomplishments. Ms. Sostrin asked them to assess the likelihood that he would be approved for an extraordinary ability visa.The consensus was that it would be very challenging: The résumé, for a tutor and patent examiner turned professor, listed only a handful of the most important scientific works Einstein had published by 1920, more than a decade into his academic career.“The notion that you somehow have to be a genius or Einstein is utter fiction,” said Chris Wright, a lawyer based in Los Angeles. “We have succeeded with models no more accomplished than Melania Trump.”While the majority of applicants and recipients have titles like “space scientist,” “cancer researcher” and “software engineer,” many have less scholarly pursuits. In 2012, Mr. Wright represented Shera Béchard, a Canadian model and Playboy Playmate who successfully petitioned for an EB-1. In her petition, Mr. Wright included scantily clad photographs of Ms. Béchard.“When it’s a glamorous model and pictures show cleavage rather than research, people assume there is something underhanded going on,” said Mr. Wright, who said that he had also obtained the visas for a racecar driver, a hair dresser and a tennis player.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For Glenn Boswell, a stunt performer and director used to jumping out of buildings and moving vehicles, getting the EB-1 was a relative cake walk.AdvertisementHis lawyer filed a 439-page petition in 2016 detailing Mr. Boswell’s achievements, which include credits in “Unbroken,” “The Matrix” and “The Hobbit,” and he received approval within a week. “I was really excited when it came,” Mr. Boswell, 60, said in a phone interview from his native Australia. He had no idea he had joined an exclusive club.Daniel Riffner, 35, an acrobat for Cirque du Soleil in Las Vegas, compiled a dossier in 2009 about his 25-year career, packed with medals, pictures of his high-wire acts and recommendations from coaches. Kinan Azmeh, 41, a Syrian clarinetist in Brooklyn who is a member of Yo-Yo Ma’s Silk Road Ensemble, applied in 2012. Both received green cards.Mr. Trump has championed an immigration overhaul that would replace the current family-based system, which he derides as “chain migration,” with one based on merit, emphasizing skill and educational level. His proposal would have made it impossible for the first lady to sponsor her parents for a green card, which she did after obtaining permanent legal residency and becoming a citizen herself. Meanwhile, highly skilled people, whether scientists or entrepreneurs, often get turned down when they apply to work and live in the country.Especially under the Trump administration, immigration lawyers said, U.S.C.I.S. has made a habit of making requests for further evidence before deciding the fate of an applicant. The lawyers also said that scholars and scientists have a tougher time winning approval than models, actors and athletes.Elissa Taub, a lawyer in Memphis who secured the EB-1 for the German gymnast, said that some of her denials “burn me to this day,” like that of a nuclear astrophysicist who had produced groundbreaking work at a national lab. Immigration officials said his title on the job was not senior enough to merit the EB-1.“We lost a great scientific mind due to this crazy decision,” she said of the scholar, who returned to India.In another case, U.S.C.I.S. acknowledged that a Chinese researcher had fulfilled three criteria to qualify, but that “scientists who have risen to the very top of the field have garnered citations numbered in the thousands,” not in the hundreds, as he had shown. He was denied.AdvertisementDespite ample documentation and detailed letters from world-renowned experts supporting the petition of a molecular oncologist who studies drug-resistant cancer, U.S.C.I.S. questioned whether her scholarship was significant. After her lawyer submitted further evidence, she was approved.“These are people we should be rolling out the red carpet for,” said David Soloway, the lawyer who handled the case.“Most people would readily say that it makes sense for someone who is extraordinarily skilled in the sciences to be admitted to this country,” Mr. Soloway added. “But in modeling? Really?”An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Albert Einstein’s record of scientific publication. By 1920, he had published more than 200 works, not a handful. The résumé based on his career to that point that was distributed to immigration lawyers at a conference included seven of his important works, not all he had published.You can follow Miriam Jordan on Twitter: @mirjordanA version of this article appears in print on March 5, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: First Lady Is a Fit for Genius Visa. Einstein? Iffy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By FARAH NAYERIMARCH 5, 2018
LONDON — Artists’ studios are not often found in picturesque environments. They usually look out on dreary backyards, factory warehouses or parking lots. But the British painter Celia Paul has an atelier overlooking the columned facade of the British Museum.Ms. Paul’s small, top-floor apartment was bought for her in 1982 by Lucian Freud, her partner at the time. They met at the Slade School of Fine Art when she was an 18-year-old student and he a 55-year-old visiting tutor.Both artists have work in a new exhibition at Tate Britain called “All Too Human: Bacon, Freud and a Century of Painting Life,” a survey of representational British art of the postwar period. Mr. Freud, who died in 2011, has 17 paintings in the show, more than any other artist. Ms. Paul has two, but she is also the subject of one of the Freud paintings: “Girl in a Striped Nightshirt” (1983-85), a small and tender portrait.After four decades spent in the shadows — as Mr. Freud’s partner, as a woman artist and as a figurative painter when the genre was pronounced dead — Ms. Paul, now 58, is drawing attention for her soulful and melancholy portraits. Opening on April 3 at the Yale Center for British Art in New Haven is a Celia Paul show curated by the New Yorker writer Hilton Als. He has championed her before, in a display of her work at Gallery Met, the Metropolitan Opera’s art space in New York, in 2015.AdvertisementIn a recent interview at her home studio, Ms. Paul spoke softly but openly about her life and art, exuding a combination of fragility and quiet strength. The conversation took place in her unadorned bedroom, with a metal-framed bed at one end and a paint-stained chaise longue at the other. Sketched onto the wall was a charcoal drawing of Ms. Paul by her son with Mr. Freud, the artist Frank Paul.Perched on an easel in the atelier next door was a just-finished, pale gray painting of Ms. Paul’s sister. The atelier was strewn with tubes of color and piles of paint-splattered fabric strips.Advertisement“I’m not a portrait painter: I’m an autobiographer,” Ms. Paul explained, contrasting her art and Mr. Freud’s. “I paint my life and my family. I paint the presence of people I know intimately.”In a telephone interview, Mr. Als described Ms. Paul as “a great artist, on canvas and off canvas: There is no real division between what she does all day and who she is.”“This girl who was so precocious entered the male-dominated woods of the art world, and they made sure that she got lost in it,” he added. According to Mr. Als, she lacked “that wiliness when it comes to careers,” and “that desire to kill other people off in order to exist.”As for the relationship with Mr. Freud, “Celia did suffer from that association,” Mr. Als said.Ms. Paul was born in India, the fourth of five daughters. Her mother was a teacher and her father was a priest who later became a bishop in the Church of England. (One of her sisters is married to Rowan Williams, the former archbishop of Canterbury.) The family moved back to Britain when Celia was 5, and she attended a girls’ boarding school.Ms. Paul remembered when, as an art student at the Slade, she first saw Mr. Freud walk into the life-drawing room in the basement. “He had this beautifully tailored gray wool suit, he was wearing a white silk scarf, and he was smoking a Gitane,” she said. Mr. Freud complimented Ms. Paul on some drawings she had made of her mother. They had tea at the cafeteria, discussing a painting he was working on — “Two Plants” (1977-80), which is in the Tate Britain show — and the difficulties of depicting a subject that kept changing and growing new shoots.He offered to show her the painting at his apartment studio. In the cab there, he lifted her hair and recited verses in French from the Baudelaire poem “La Chevelure” (“Hair”). “He sensed that I was romantic, and somehow it was the beauty that got me, I think: the beauty of his art and his courtship,” she said. “He was tender, and very, very gentle.”AdvertisementIt was the start of a relationship with art at its core. They saw each other on weekends, when Ms. Paul also posed for Mr. Freud.Throughout the relationship, Ms. Paul spent weekdays in her London studio, painting her family. Early on, he told her that he felt she “had a unique talent,” but also that it was “much more difficult for women, for obvious reasons and also for not so obvious reasons,” she recalled. Initially puzzled by the remark, she later came to think he meant that “men find it much easier to be selfish, and you absolutely need to be selfish if you’re going to be an artist.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In December 1984, Ms. Paul gave birth to Frank. After this, “the emotions changed,” she said. Mr. Freud was “more complicated about me.”By 1988, Ms. Paul said, she realized that Mr. Freud had gone beyond his frequent infidelities and become “involved with someone,” so she left him. What followed was a “very, very difficult time” in her life, when she started using dark colors in her painting and becoming “a more interior, private person.”Toiling tirelessly in her studio, with “no outside encouragement or stimulus,” she produced loosely painted, almost trembling portraits of her loved ones, mainly her mother. But when her mother found it impossible to climb the stairs to her studio, Ms. Paul started painting self-portraits. “Painter and Model” (2012), which is in the Tate Britain show, is a sorrowful image of Ms. Paul in a paint-spotted dress, with squeezed tubes at her bare feet.Elena Crippa, the curator of the Tate Britain show, said Ms. Paul was not better known because “figurative painting has only very recently started having a broader reception” and because artists like her were “making it in the U.K. after they were already approved by the U.S. establishment.”Ms. Paul “takes you to the edge of some really strong, internal, psychological corners, where not everyone is prepared to venture,” Ms. Crippa said.The centerpiece of the seven-painting show at the Yale Center will be the somewhat ghostly “My Sisters in Mourning,” painted after the death of the artist’s mother in 2015. Amy Meyers, director of the Yale Center, said the idea for the show had arisen after Mr. Als gave a talk about Ms. Paul there. “We were so moved that we asked him to curate a small and deeply personal exhibition of her work,” Ms. Meyers said.Through art, “Celia expresses her interest in the complex and rich relationship between the seen and the seer,” Ms. Meyers added.Ms. Paul said she was thinking of making her next subject the “powerful male presences” in her life, including her father; her brother-in-law, the former archbishop; and Mr. Freud.Advertisement“I think one has to obviously work out one’s position as a woman in relation to what remains a male-driven world,” she said.All Too Human: Bacon, Freud and a Century of Painting Life. Through Aug. 27 at Tate Britain, London; tate.org.uk.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By LAURIE GOODSTEIN and MICHAEL D. SHEARMARCH 2, 2018
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Standing at the simple wooden pulpit that the Rev. Billy Graham once used to preach his global crusades, his five children and evangelists from around the world gave tribute on Friday to a man who for half a century was the world’s best known living apostle of evangelical Christianity.Mr. Graham, who died last week at 99, was eulogized in front of the Billy Graham Library in Charlotte under an enormous white tent reminiscent of the “canvas cathedral” where Mr. Graham conducted his breakout crusade in Los Angeles in 1949.President Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and their wives attended the funeral, but were given no speaking role. The funeral gave the platform instead to the disciples who carry on Billy Graham’s ministry — including evangelists from India, Lebanon and South Korea — and his children, who offered testimony that was sometimes very personal.Ruth Graham, one of his daughters, spoke of how she returned home to her father fearing harsh judgment after her second marriage ended.Advertisement“He wrapped his arms around me and said welcome home,” she recalled through tears. “There was no shame. There was no blame. Just unconditional love. My father was not God. But he showed me what God was like that day.”AdvertisementThe details of the funeral had been meticulously planned by Mr. Graham himself 10 years ago, befitting a man known to choreograph his mass crusades to the last altar call. The coffin was built of pine plywood by inmates at the Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola. The pulpit was the same one Mr. Graham used in his crusades in the 1990s.The expectation was that the funeral would draw all or most of the living presidents who were healthy enough to attend. Three spoke at the opening of the Billy Graham Library in 2007 and former Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton came to Charlotte earlier this week to pay their respects to the Graham family.But in the end, the only president who attended the funeral was Mr. Trump. In remarks on Wednesday when Mr. Graham’s coffin was laid in honor at the Capitol Rotunda, the president did what so many have done in the days since Mr. Graham died: he shared his own Billy Graham story, about seeing him in 1957.“My father said to me, ‘Come on son,’ ” the president said, “ ‘Let’s go see Billy Graham at Yankee Stadium.’ And it was something very special.”Mr. Graham died at his mountain home in Montreat, N.C., on Feb. 21. His body was carried in a motorcade down the mountain and 130 miles east to Charlotte, as thousands waved farewell from overpasses along the interstate.The funeral on Friday, under a 28,000-square-foot tent that shuddered in a stiff wind, drew other political dignitaries besides the president and vice president, including Ben Carson, the housing secretary, the former New York City mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Gov. Roy Cooper of North Carolina and his predecessor, Pat McCrory.Some attendees remarked that it was an unprecedented gathering of evangelical luminaries. They included the megachurch leaders Joel Osteen, Rick Warren and A.R. Bernard, the best-selling author and speaker Beth Moore, the radio and television host David Jeremiah, and the Rev. Jim Bakker, who has returned to television ministry after a corruption scandal that sent him to prison.AdvertisementThe evangelical movement is now far more divided than it was under Mr. Graham, mostly because of politics. One wing makes no apology for having linked the evangelical church so closely with the Republican Party and President Trump. Another wing sees it as undermining the Gospel message.The Rev. Ed Stetzer, executive director of the Billy Graham Center at Wheaton College, said before the service started: “My hope is that this funeral will remind us to put the evangelism back in evangelical.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Franklin Graham, Mr. Graham’s eldest son and designated heir of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, did not veer into politics, though he has served as a frequent champion of Mr. Trump in the media. But he did include the kind of explicit, exclusivist claim of Christian faith that he has consistently used in his public appearances, including presidential inaugurations, when he insisted on giving his prayer “in the name of Jesus.”“The world with all its political correctness would want you to believe that there are many roads to God. It’s just not true,” Mr. Graham said. “My father would want me to share this with you today.”He delivered a sermon that included the kind of direct appeals to Christian conversion that were his father’s trademark:“Are you saved? Are you forgiven? Are you trusting in your Lord as your savior? If you’re not sure, there is no better time than at Billy Graham’s funeral.”In his later years, Billy Graham forged relationships with leaders of other Christian denominations, and his funeral reflected those efforts, with Roman Catholic, Russian Orthodox and Greek Orthodox leaders among those in attendance.Cardinal Timothy Dolan, the Roman Catholic archbishop of New York, said he had been planning to lead an ecumenical prayer service to honor Mr. Graham on Friday at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York City, but changed his plans when he received an invitation to the funeral in Charlotte.“It means a lot to me personally because Billy Graham had a big impact on me growing up in the 50s and 60s,” the cardinal said, adding that hearing Mr. Graham’s preaching on TV affected his decision to join the priesthood.For about half a century, as tastes changed and celebrities peaked and faded away, Mr. Graham remained a household name with consistently high public approval ratings. As late as 2007 — two years after his last crusade in New York City — three-quarters of the Americans surveyed who knew of Mr. Graham had a favorable impression of him, according to a poll by the Pew Research Center.AdvertisementOn Wednesday and Thursday, when Mr. Graham’s body lay in honor in the Capitol Rotunda in Washington, thousands lined up outside waiting to say goodbye. He was only the fourth American who was not an elected official or a military member to be given the honor.Some objected to giving Mr. Graham such a distinction, citing the country’s guiding principle of separation of church and state, as well as Mr. Graham’s record of remarks that were offensive to Jews and to gay people — remarks he later said he regretted.Ned Graham, the youngest of the five Graham children, said that his father was “faithful, available and teachable.”“I want all of you to be that way,” he said.Mr. Graham was buried in the prayer garden at his library next to his wife, Ruth Bell Graham, who died in 2007. They had met as students at Wheaton College and were married for 64 years. His wife’s grave marker is inscribed, at her instruction, with words she once saw on a road sign: “End of Construction. Thank you for your patience.”The inscription on Mr. Graham’s grave describes him as “Preacher of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.”A version of this article appears in print on March 3, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: At Graham’s Funeral, Warm Memories and a Little Evangelism.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
MARCH 1, 2018

The editorial board is composed of journalists with wide-ranging areas of expertise. Their primary responsibility is to write The Times’s editorials, which represent the voice of the board, its editor and the publisher. The board is part of the Opinion department, which is operated separately from The Times’s newsroom, and includes the Letters to the Editor and Op-Ed sections.
James Bennet, the editorial page editor of The New York Times, is in charge of the Opinion department. He oversees the editorial board and the Letters and Op-Ed sections.Mr. Bennet became editorial page editor in May 2016.  Before this role, Mr. Bennet was the president and editor in chief of The Atlantic. Under Mr. Bennet, who was named editor in 2006, The Atlantic substantially increased its editorial reach and impact while returning to profitability for the first time in recent history. Adweek named Mr. Bennet editor of the year in 2012 and Ad Age did the same in 2009. The Atlantic was honored with the National Magazine Award four times during his tenure, including Magazine of the Year and best website, for TheAtlantic.com. Before joining The Atlantic, Mr. Bennet worked for The Times for 15 years in several roles, including Detroit bureau chief, White House correspondent and Jerusalem bureau chief.  He also served as a staff writer for The Sunday Magazine. Before joining the Times, Mr. Bennet was an editor with The Washington Monthly. He and his wife have two sons.Follow on Twitter @JBennetKathleen Kingsbury is deputy editorial page editor of The New York Times. She joined The Times in 2017 from The Boston Globe, where she served as managing editor for digital.Ms. Kingsbury joined The Globe’s editorial board in 2013 and later edited Ideas, the paper's Sunday section aimed at tackling the new thinking, intellectual trends and big ideas that shape our world. In this role, Ms. Kingsbury was also a deputy managing editor and the deputy editorial page editor.She was awarded the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for distinguished editorial writing for a series on low wages and the mistreatment of workers in the restaurant industry. The same eight-part series, “Service Not Included,” also received the Scripps Howard Foundation’s 2014 Walker Stone Award for editorial writing and the Burl Osborne Award for editorial leadership from the American Society of News Editors. She also edited The Globe's 2016 Pulitzer Prize-winning commentary on race and education.Ms. Kingsbury previously worked as a New York-based staff writer and Hong Kong-based foreign correspondent for Time magazine.Follow on Twitter @katiekingsNick Fox has been an editor at The Times since 1995, having previously worked as the assignment editor on  the National desk, in the Dining section and with the online opinion forum Room for Debate. He previously worked for Newsday and The Bergen Record. He has a B.A. from Binghamton University and an M.A. from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.Vikas Bajaj has worked at The New York Times since 2005. Before joining the editorial board in 2012, he was a correspondent based in Mumbai, India. He previously covered housing and financial markets for the Business section in New York. Born in Mumbai, Mr. Bajaj grew up there and in Bangkok, and he received a bachelor’s in journalism from Michigan State University. He came to The Times from The Dallas Morning News.Follow on Twitter @vikasbajajCarol Giacomo,a former diplomatic correspondent for Reuters in Washington, covered foreign policy for the international wire service for more than two decades before joining The Times editorial board in August 2007. In her previous position, she traveled over 1 million miles to more than 100 countries with eight secretaries of state and various other senior U.S. officials. Her reporting for the editorial board involves regular independent overseas travel, including recent trips to North Korea, Iran and Myanmar. In 2009, she won the Georgetown University Weintal Prize for diplomatic reporting. She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. In 1999-2000, she was a senior fellow at the U.S. Institute of Peace, researching U.S. economic and foreign policy decision-making during the Asian financial crisis. She was a Ferris professor of journalism at Princeton University in 2013 and is a frequent public speaker at academic institutions, think tanks and on media shows, including MSNBC.  Born and raised in Connecticut, she holds a B.A. in English Literature from Regis College, Weston, Mass. She began her professional journalism career at the Lowell Sun in Lowell, Mass., and later worked for the Hartford Courant in the city hall, state capitol and Washington bureaus.Follow on Twitter @giacomonytSerge Schmemann joined the Times in 1980. He served as the editorial page editor of the International Herald Tribune in Paris from 2003 to 2013. He has been a Times correspondent and bureau chief in Moscow, Bonn, Jerusalem and the United Nations. He served as the deputy foreign editor in New York from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Schmemann received the Pulitzer Prize in 1991 for coverage of the reunification of Germany, and an Emmy in 2003 for his work on a television documentary about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He was previously a reporter with the Associated Press. Mr. Schmemann is a graduate of Harvard College and holds an M.A. from Columbia University, as well as an honorary doctorate from Middlebury College. He was born in Paris, is married and has three children.Brent Staples joined The Times editorial board in 1990. His editorials and essays are included in dozens of college readers throughout the United States and abroad. Before joining the editorial page, he served as an editor of The New York Times Book Review and an assistant editor for metropolitan news. Mr. Staples holds a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Chicago and is author of "Parallel Time," a memoir, which was a finalist for the Los Angeles Times Book Prize and winner of the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award.Follow on Twitter @BrentNYTJesse Wegman joined the editorial board in 2013. He was previously a senior editor at The Daily Beast and Newsweek, a legal news editor at Reuters, and the managing editor of The New York Observer. In 2010, he received a Soros Justice Fellowship to write a book about jailhouse lawyers. He graduated from New York University School of Law in 2005. Before that, he was a producer and reporter for several National Public Radio programs.Follow on Twitter @jessewegmanMr. Broder joined the editorial board at the start of 2018. He most recently served as deputy climate editor and director of news surveys, with responsibility for overseeing the New York Times Poll and polling analysis. Before that, he was digital editor for Europe, based in Paris. Mr. Broder was a correspondent for the Washington bureau from 2006 to 2012, covering energy and environmental issues, as well as the 2008 campaign.  Previously, Mr. Broder had served as the Los Angeles bureau chief, Washington editor and White House correspondent during the Clinton administration. He also served as the newspaper’s Business Day Washington reporter covering regulatory and legal issues, including tobacco negotiations, anti-trust enforcement, consumer and financial regulation. He joined The Times in 1996.Lauren Kelley joined the Times editorial board in 2018. Previously, she was the online politics editor at Rolling Stone, where she led coverage of the 2016 presidential election, the Trump administration and Congress. Before that, she was the managing editor at Rewire, an outlet focused on reproductive health and rights, as well as an editor at Alternet and a staff writer at Philanthropy News Digest. A native of Dallas, Ms. Kelley holds a B.A. in English literature from Texas Christian University. She now lives in Brooklyn, N.Y.Follow on Twitter @lauren_kelleyPhotos: Lauren Kelley by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times; John Broder by Karolyn Wallace; all others by Fred R. Conrad/The New York TimesAdvertisementBy ISABEL KERSHNERMARCH 2, 2018
JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel was questioned by the police on Friday as a possible suspect in a third bribery case, the weightiest so far in a string of corruption investigations that are jeopardizing his political future.Officers questioned Mr. Netanyahu about a case involving Shaul Elovitch, an Israeli telecommunications tycoon accused of using his popular Hebrew news site to provide positive coverage of Mr. Netanyahu and his wife in return for regulatory and financial benefits worth tens of millions of dollars.A large black screen was drawn on Friday morning across leafy Balfour Street in Jerusalem, concealing the prime minister’s official residence and the comings and goings of investigators. Outside, a small but noisy group of demonstrators beat drums and held placards with slogans against corruption.Mr. Netanyahu, who has now been questioned by the police eight times in the past 14 months, is fighting for his political life as the allegations against him mount. Last month, the police recommended that Mr. Netanyahu be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust in two other graft cases involving allegations of illicit gifts for favors and another attempt to obtain more favorable coverage.AdvertisementThose cases are now being examined by state prosecutors and the attorney general, who will ultimately decide whether to file charges pending a hearing with Mr. Netanyahu’s lawyers. The process could take months.AdvertisementInside the Balfour Street residence, Mr. Netanyahu was questioned for hours under caution as a possible suspect, according to the police. His wife, Sara, was questioned simultaneously as a suspect in the same case at the fraud investigation unit’s headquarters in Lod, central Israel.The latest twist in a spiraling corruption scandal comes on the eve of Mr. Netanyahu’s departure for Washington, where he is scheduled to meet President Trump and address the American Israel Public Affairs Committee’s annual policy conference.Mr. Netanyahu has made a point of maintaining a high-profile presence on the world stage, traveling in recent weeks to India, where he was treated like royalty; to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland; and to an international security conference in Munich.Denying all wrongdoing, Mr. Netanyahu has been trying to project a business-as-usual approach despite his mounting legal troubles, aiming to burnish his credentials both at home and abroad as an international player.In a short video posted on Facebook after he was questioned, Mr. Netanyahu said he was about to embark on “a very important visit” to the United States and added, in reference to the police investigations, “I feel confident that nothing will come of it.”The questioning of the prime minister, who also served as communications minister from 2014 to 2017, in this latest case was expected.Several members of his close circle have been arrested in the case, including Nir Hefetz, a former media adviser to the Netanyahus, and Shlomo Filber, a political operative for Mr. Netanyahu’s conservative Likud Party and Mr. Netanyahu’s pick as director general of the Communications Ministry. Mr. Filber, a long-serving Netanyahu aide, has turned state witness.AdvertisementThe case involves a dicey mix of political power, big business and personal relationships. Mr. Netanyahu is a friend of Mr. Elovitch, who owns the Eurocom Group holding company, which owns Bezeq, the Israeli telecommunications giant that has long had a near-monopoly on land lines in the country.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Bezek owns Walla, the Israeli news site that has provided lopsidedly flattering coverage of the Netanyahus for months or years. Sara Netanyahu, a friend of Mr. Elovitch’s wife, Iris, is reported to have sent messages to her with demands to tilt the coverage in her husband’s favor. Mrs. Elovitch has already been arrested in the affair and spent several days in detention.Mrs. Netanyahu is facing possible fraud charges in a separate case in which she is accused of misusing about $100,000 in public funds in her management of the prime minister’s official residence.Among other things, the Communications Ministry is said to have pushed regulators to allow the merger of a money-losing satellite network, Yes, also owned by Mr. Elovitch, with Bezeq, a deal that would have reaped huge tax savings for Mr. Elovitch.At a hearing for two of the suspects in the case in a Tel Aviv court this week, Yehudit Tirosh, a prosecution lawyer, pointed a finger at Mr. Netanyahu in his role as communications minister.“This is a grave case of giving and receiving bribes,” Ms. Tirosh was quoted as saying by the Israeli news media. “The term ‘positive coverage’ is misleading. This is harnessing a leading website in return for regulatory favors by the minister of communications and the director general of the Ministry of Communications.” The value of the regulatory benefits was about $500 million, she said.Mr. Netanyahu responded in another Facebook post this week, saying, “All actions were carried out in a professional manner based on the recommendations of the professional echelon, professional committees and legal counsel.’’Jack Chen, a lawyer representing Mr. Elovitch, said in an interview on Friday that the allegations were “baseless,” and that his client categorically denied that there was ever any such deal.Mr. Netanyahu, who has been accused of accepting nearly $300,000 in gifts over 10 years, has found himself and his close associates accused on a variety of fronts:• Case 1000, the gifts-for-favors affair in which the police last month recommended that Mr. Netanyahu be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust.Advertisement• Case 2000, in which Mr. Netanyahu is suspected of back-room dealings with Arnon Mozes, publisher of the popular newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth, to ensure more favorable coverage. The police have also recommended charges in that case.• Case 3000, which involves suspicions of corruption surrounding a multibillion-dollar purchase of submarines and other naval vessels from a German shipyard. Mr. Netanyahu is not a suspect in that case, though some of his closest confidants are.• Case 4000, which was the subject of the police questioning on Friday.The Walla news site has changed its tune in recent months, offering some considerably less fawning coverage of the Netanyahus.In January, it published an earsplitting recorded telephone conversation from 2009 in which Mrs. Netanyahu could be heard berating a publicist over a short gossip column item about her participation in a school fund-raising event that did not cite her educational and professional credentials to her satisfaction.Follow Isabel Kershner on Twitter: @IKershner.A version of this article appears in print on March 3, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Israeli Prime Minister Is Questioned by Police in Third Corruption Case.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Why would any policymaker with the agenda or values she espouses work for a president so determined to lay waste to them?By THE EDITORIAL BOARDMARCH 1, 2018
This is the third part of an editorial series on nepotism in the White House. Read more on the history of nepotism and politics here, and on Jared Kushner’s role here.  When Ivanka Trump traveled to Pyeongchang, South Korea, to attend the Olympic closing ceremony, President Trump tweeted: “My daughter, Ivanka, just arrived in South Korea. We cannot have a better, or smarter, person representing our country.”“Why? Is there some rule against it?” a critic responded.The irony escaped the president, no doubt, since he was not embarrassed to send his daughter as the bookend of Kim Jong-un’s sister, who was dubbed “the Ivanka Trump of North Korea” when she made a splash at the opening ceremony. Giving a family member such a prominent role is natural for a fearful, insecure leader with autocratic impulses, just as it is for Mr. Kim.Yet no American president before Mr. Trump has given such an underqualified son or daughter a White House post, and Ms. Trump’s tenure demonstrates why. Her appointment as senior adviser affords Ms. Trump a global platform for her private clothing and beauty products business and personal brand. Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, hired a Hollywood publicist — who recently quit — to join them in the White House, and in soft-focus interviews, her books and social media feeds, she’s portrayed as a savvy entrepreneur who cares about women.AdvertisementHer supporters said she went to Washington to serve — as an advocate for liberal-leaning causes from the environment to human trafficking, and as a moderating influence on her father. In reality, the self-proclaimed “Daddy’s girl” followed her father to the White House for the same reason she followed him into Manhattan real estate, and onto the set of “The Apprentice”: because she’s a Trump. In her latest role, John Kelly, the White House chief of staff, privately accuses her of “playing government,” toggling between roles as presidential adviser and presidential daughter to suit herself.AdvertisementMs. Trump has made a splash around the world. But what’s been her influence on American policy, and on her father?Ms. Trump took her job in Washington not long before the release of her book, “Women Who Work.” The  title echoes a hashtag created to sell Ivanka Trump-branded clothes and shoes. In the preface, Ms. Trump wrote that her father’s presidency provided her an opportunity to “advocate for change on a far greater scale than I’d ever imagined,” leading to new ideas “in the areas I am deeply passionate about, including the education and economic empowerment of women and girls; leveling the playing field for female entrepreneurs and job creators; and advancing the potential of women in our economy.”Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Trump declared paid family leave to be her signature domestic policy issue, and launched herself as a global advocate for women’s empowerment. She is omnipresent in White House meetings, on subjects from manufacturing employment to women in technology, and has conducted a charm offensive in Congress. She and Mr. Kushner invite legislators, lobbyists and C.E.O.s to their Washington home for off-the-record discussions of their agenda.During Mr. Trump’s first trip abroad in May, Ms. Trump raised eyebrows when she briefly represented her father at the Group of 20 meeting in Hamburg, taking a seat alongside Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. She was jeered when she called her father “a tremendous champion of supporting families” during a women’s entrepreneurship panel in Berlin. “Whom are you representing?” the moderator asked. “Your father as the president of the United States, the American people, or your business?”It’s an apt question. Ms. Trump chose a formal, unpaid administration role, requiring her to comply with federal conflict-of-interest and ethics rules. Yet she and Mr. Kushner have retained financial control of their businesses and have made repeated errors on federal financial disclosures. CNN reported Thursday that the F.B.I. is investigating one of Ms. Trump’s business deals, in Vancouver. Other projects she has spearheaded, from Azerbaijan to Manhattan, have raised legal questions as well. She hawked her book on Twitter, and has used public appearances to tout Ivanka Trump-branded jewelry and showcase Trump family businesses.Ms. Trump’s zeal for global renown has been exploited by foreign governments eager to curry favor with her father, just as her husband’s financial travails have been viewed as opportunities for influence. On the day Mr. Trump and the Kushners met with the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, China granted Ms. Trump’s company three trademarks in the giant Chinese market; other countries have done likewise.But where are Ms. Trump’s public policy successes? Language supporting paid family leave appeared in Mr. Trump’s initial budget blueprint, which went nowhere in Congress. There have been executive orders and working groups promoting women in technology, apprenticeships and job training, but no significant government funding, programs or legislation. Her White House detractors deride Ms. Trump’s causes as a “pet agenda,” vigorously opposed by the Republican base her father strives to satisfy.AdvertisementAs Mr. Trump targeted undocumented immigrants, women, gay people and the poor, as he pulled out of the Paris climate agreement and tried repeatedly to deprive working families of health insurance under Obamacare, Ms. Trump defended herself, telling Gayle King, “I would say not to conflate lack of public denouncement with silence. … Where I disagree with my father, he knows it.” The interview earned her late-night-TV ridicule as “complicit” in her father’s atavistic policies. In another interview, Ms. Trump declared the Syrian refugee crisis a “global humanitarian crisis … we have to solve,” then evaded a question of whether her father’s travel ban, which, among other groups, specifically bars Syrian refugees from the United States, is part of the problem.Last summer Ms. Trump toured the nation cheerleading for tax cuts that penalize working families while enriching her own family. A child tax credit she favored failed a key Senate vote after she skipped the debate over it, instead traveling to  India for the Global Entrepreneurship Summit. After Mr. Trump blamed “many sides” for a violent neo-Nazi demonstration in Charlottesville, Va., in which a young counterprotester was killed, Ms. Trump, who converted to Judaism when she married Mr. Kushner, tweeted an anodyne rejection of “racism, white supremacy and neo-Nazis.” She said nothing more pointed than that about her father’s remarks, which caused C.E.O.s to bolt White House advisory boards.During an interview when she was in South Korea, , Ms. Trump was asked whether she believed women’s accusations of sexual misconduct and assault against her father. Ms. Trump, a senior presidential adviser who profits personally from her support for women’s empowerment, took umbrage. “I don’t think that’s a question you would ask many other daughters,” she said, before going on to say she believes “my father.”What a perfect summary of what’s wrong with White House nepotism. Since she is the president’s daughter, Ms. Trump considers herself immune from criticism or tough questions even when she’s acting in her public role as a “senior adviser.” In fact, of course, no policymaker truly committed to the agenda Ms. Trump espouses would have joined this administration. No presidential adviser with the values she claims would still be working for a president so determined to lay waste to them. So why does Ms. Trump stay? The answers could only be family allegiance, personal gain, or plans — wildly optimistic plans, in light of the F.B.I. noose tightening around this White House — for a dynastic political career. These are precisely what the founders condemned as nepotism’s dangers to democracy. Ivanka Trump isn’t serving America, she is serving the Trumps.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. A version of this editorial appears in print on March 5, 2018, on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Ivanka Trump’s Brand Building.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
MARCH 1, 2018
Good morning on this dry-to-drippy Thursday.A nationwide art competition for veterans is underway, and several New Yorkers are among the finalists.The annual contest, called the National Veterans Creative Arts Festival and hosted by the Department of Veterans Affairs, draws thousands of veterans to their local V.A. centers to share works including painting, poetry and dance numbers.It can also serve as a form of therapy, contestants said, helping veterans cope with psychological trauma.Finalists from the local competitions will be chosen to attend a national festival in Des Moines in the fall. And this week, Sarahlynn Lewis and Nelijah Cox of Brooklyn were named as two of the gold medalists who may go on to represent our city in Iowa.Ms. Lewis, 70, who grew up in Harlem and served at Fort Lewis in Washington State during the Vietnam era, said she had used art to overcome obstacles in life, beginning in kindergarten.Advertisement“When I started, I had a stuttering problem, so I would draw what I was trying to say,” Ms. Lewis told us.AdvertisementMs. Lewis said she was raped while in the Army. After that, she said, art saved her life.“Doing my artwork, I was able to continue to deal with life itself,” she said. “I knew that I had the gift, and it helped me survive.”Sculpture is her specialty. “Sting,” a work for which she was made a finalist, brings a scorpion to life through wood carvings. “I kept going and going,” Ms. Lewis said of the six months she spent on the sculpture, “and next thing I knew, it looked like it was breathing.”Ms. Cox, 60, who served in West Germany and Fort Jackson in South Carolina in the 1980s before moving to New York in 1989, said that she, too, was raped in the Army and that art had been part of her healing process.“I suffer from PTSD from sexual trauma when I was in the military — when I went to the V.A., I was very depressed, I was out of it, I was suicidal,” Ms. Cox said. She learned needlepoint through the facility’s art therapy program.“We do art every day,” she said. “It literally saved our lives. It takes your mind away from the past experiences that are not good for you.”Ms. Cox has since become a master of Egyptian needlepoint. Her piece “Mystic,” a project 12 years in the making, earned her consideration for the national competition, which begins in October.(We’re rooting for you both!)Until then, you can see works by Ms. Lewis, Ms. Cox and other talented veterans at the Manhattan campus of the V.A.’s New York Harbor Health Care System.AdvertisementHere’s what else is happening:Mediocre in the morning and misty in the afternoon, with a high near 56 and a rainy evening ahead.It may be March now, but don’t throw your winter coat into storage just yet — after today, we’re back down to the 30s, with flurries on the horizon.• New York City’s next schools chancellor will be Alberto M. Carvalho, the superintendent of the Miami-Dade County Public Schools. [New York Times]• Even after the mass shooting in Florida, New York lawmakers are reluctant on gun control. [New York Times]• When she was 11 years old, she testified in her own custody case. Now, at 49, she is a Family Court judge. [New York Times]• The trial is set to begin for the Upper West Side nanny accused of killing two children in her care. [New York Times]• Should librarians be trained to treat overdose victims? As the opioid crisis worsens, some are being asked to do just that. [New York Times]• The lawyer for Joseph Percoco said he was more of a foot soldier for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo than a right-hand man. [New York Times]• A Queens man wanted revenge against a police officer who had arrested him. Instead, officials said, he killed a 73-year-old landlord with a bomb. He had the wrong address. [New York Times]Advertisement• Get to know the Metropolitan Opera’s next music director. We spent 14 hours with him. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Spotify will finally list its shares on Wall Street. [New York Times]• New Jersey lawmakers have pushed forward bills to tighten their gun control laws. [Observer]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “A Stop Too Soon”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• A teen dinner party exploring gender and sexuality and celebrating L.G.B.T. contributions to history at the Brooklyn Museum. 5 p.m. [Free]• The jazz and blues vocalist Vinnie Knight performs at Pelham Fritz Recreation Center in Harlem. 6:30 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P. here]• The host of the “Talk Music Talk” podcast, boice-Terrel Allen, curates a live podcast at the Strand Book Store by Union Square. 7 p.m. [Free]• “The Movie Idiot’s Guide to the Oscars,” a comedic preview of the Academy Awards, at the Peoples Improv Theater Loft in Chelsea. 9 p.m. [$10]• Devils at Panthers, 7:30 p.m. (MSG+). Nets at Kings, 10 p.m. (YES).• Alternate-side parking is suspended.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.Hello, Holi.The Hindu holiday, observed tonight and tomorrow, celebrates the arrival of spring.AdvertisementThough it might feel far from it, with gloomy skies and the possibility of snow this weekend, the festival of color will lend some brightness — Holi involves smearing vibrant dyes or colored powder, gulal, on our bodies.Although Hindus believe the holiday originated in Nandgaon, India, New Yorkers can participate from thousands of miles away:This afternoon, you can take a Holi-inspired cooking class.This weekend, families can learn more about the Holi story, take a Bollywood dance class or taste traditional Indian delicacies at the Brooklyn Children’s Museum.(That afternoon, the “Holi Hooray!” festivities continue at nearby Brower Park, where children can throw colored powder.)And later this month, you can join a Bollywood dance extravaganza or a Holi brunch party.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Rites of Passage By                     
 YONETTE JOSEPH
 
MARCH 1, 2018
LONDON — I remember exactly when the messages began in earnest.In January 2017, on a visit back to Guyana, the former British colony where I was born, I casually revealed to my distant cousins that I was on WhatsApp.I had spent years away, going to college and navigating adulthood in New York. We promised to stay in touch. We were family, bonded. No separations could break that.Soon after I returned home to New York, the first message landed with a “PING!” at full volume, a few hours after I had drifted off, exhausted from a hectic night in the newsroom.It read: “Gm.”At first I was startled. I was in a different time zone and worked weird hours. No one had contacted me from the 592 country code that late before via text. I snatched the glowing phone off a chair beside the bed and tapped out a reply.Advertisement“Hiya. Everything good?”“Yes”“OK!”I stared at my phone almost cockeyed for a good long while, waiting for the true purpose of the message to reveal itself. But that was it: “Gm.”AdvertisementThe messages came at odd times. They landed in someone’s morning, but never in mine. At first, they set off a rush of anxiety. I had been primed to expect nothing good when the phone jangles, rings or pings.After I moved away from my mother’s home in Brooklyn, picking up the phone meant being rocked by news of death, accidents, floods and other calamities. In Guyana, the sun is so hot it bites at your skin, the food is so good it puts you in a carb coma — and people can leave this earth in dramatic fashion.Sometimes while riding without a helmet on a moped or on the back of a donkey cart. Sometimes as a passenger in an S.U.V. facing an oncoming minibus crammed with people and careening madly down the wrong side of the road (the right lane) and trying to switch to the right side (the left) at the last minute.It makes for memorable funerals where men drink XM or El Dorado rum, slamming dominoes and sharing stories about what a bastard the deceased was. Where women wail and toss their bodies into the hole at the cemetery, or faint — with flair — on the coffin.But such losses are devastatingly final.I learned of my mother’s death from a call to Miami that struck me dumb for five hours — trauma that was strangely similar to the time a sleeping dog bit me over the eye and I went blind for a day. I learned my maternal grandmother would never wake up again when my sister sobbed hysterically at me over the phone — she was alone with the body in Brooklyn.New technology doesn’t dull the shocking thud of bad news; it just speeds it through a slick new medium. But now, I got:“Gm”“Gday”“Good day”Full stop.The only obvious solution to the tyranny of “Gm” was to change the alert sound to a gentler “swoosh.”When I moved to London, I flagged the five-hour time difference to my cousins. Didn’t matter. The messages popped up on Facebook.“Gm”Sometimes — rarely — our schedules aligned and we communed via a phone call. Tell me something good, I’d say. If not, tell me something almost worthy of the encryption: Whose house burned to the ground. Who failed O level exams. What skulduggery is leaking from City Hall.AdvertisementWe’ve always had powerful stories to tell. My grandmother entranced the children with tales of Brer Anansi, the clever spider from African folklore. My grandfather read aloud newspaper stories rife with intrigue and horror. An opposition politician's head was found in a car trunk. A woman tried to pour hot oil down the ear of her cheating husband while he slept. The Rev. Jim Jones sent more than 900 souls to the Promised Land with poisoned Flavor Aid.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But now, the family vine says:“Beautiful woman of God!!”“Enjoy your day!!”By calling, I had raised the stakes. A flood of missed calls began appearing on my muted phone at work.“You called me?”“Yes”“What’s happening?”“Nothing”“Oh. I’m at work.”“Ok”“Everything ok?”“Yes”Late last year, I returned for a visit and reconnected with a cousin who had jousted on WhatsApp. I tried to talk cricket, Messi, Bae. But the smart aleck who had a riposte for every comment online plopped down on a sofa and disappeared into her phone.I peered at her sideways, and it dawned on me: We are different species.I’m a former letter writer whose handwriting admittedly now looks as if someone had dipped a beetle into ink and let it loose on the page. She prefers texting someone in the same room. I left discombobulated.But soon after I returned home, the patter resumed and — lo — something approaching a conversation unfolded:“Gm”“Hey”“Adopt me”“What?”“People adopt grown children”“But aren’t you … in university??”“sooo?”“You’re fighting with your mum, right”“Mm-m”At some point, my number made its way to relatives so distant I would not recognize them if they passed me on the street.“Gm’s” piled up. So did Christmas and New Year’s greetings. Epic GIFs and memes: shiny angels, naked, leering cherubs, dancing Goofys.AdvertisementDestructive thoughts surfaced: I wish someone would just ask me for money.I have to rethink this, I thought. This is family. My WhatsApp threads were a lifeline across the ocean. Selfishness can have no place here. People are searching the World Wide Web to find the perfect e-card. For me. Besides, no one has broken the news of a death here. Not yet.Most important, after years of receiving shattering news by phone, should I not revel in the banal glory of a “Gm”?Then, the chain messages landed.Most had a blessing and a curse: Send it to 20 others — or else.Blessings I’m thankful for. But chain messages are the leeches of social media: They feed off loyalty, friendship and guilt.I lost it.Whole sentences were typed. Exclamation points were hurled. Threats were made. You can’t choose your relatives, but surely you can block ’em.I saw a tweet from a woman in India who said she was breaking up with her family’s WhatsApp group, citing an “incredible amount of unverified news.” Some described it as “savage.”I call it deliverance.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By LAURA van STRAATENMARCH 1, 2018
Artists not only make the work that is exhibited at museums like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, but they also seek out art and historical objects in such collections as a source for inspiration and research. And so we reached out to artists for their views on the new fee policy. Here are edited excerpts from some of their responses.My concern is that when visitors to the Met are obligated to pay a hefty admission, they will understand their experience as [a commercial] transaction. When public museum collections and exhibitions are free, then the public feels emboldened to experiment with interpretation and meaning. It also allows for repeated viewing. Once money arbitrates the museum experience, we become consumers and not interpreters or storytellers. — Michelle Grabner, artist, Milwaukee, and artistic director of FRONT International: Cleveland Triennial for Contemporary Art, July 14 through Sept. 30.I understand that people would think the Met should be free, as I do. But in reality, a museum can only squeeze so much out of the Kochs and the Sacklers and then you’re on your own. It’s a symptom of a systemic problem: monetizing things that should be a right, like health care, education and, now, culture. Why wouldn’t people expect culture to catch up with the rest of it all, and the mall-ing of New York City? We will get used to it, as we have so much in this last year. And that will be that. Sad but true. — Ross Bleckner, New YorkWhen I lived in New York in the 1980s, economically it was very bad for me. But I would come to the Met all the time and pay a penny. And when I could afford to I paid more. When I was back in China, I would very proudly show them this pay-as-you-wish policy as an example of what was positive about the U.S., that even in this capitalistic society, there was a door, a light. To stand in front of a Van Gogh or a Jackson Pollock, or African sculpture, it gave you hope and you were not judged by your economic status but by how much you loved those works. It was a treasure, not a privilege. This new way totally ruins this belief. It’s like taking the jacket off a poor person. If they do this, I will never go to the Met. Am I calling for a boycott? No. But I myself will not go. — Ai Weiwei, BerlinAdvertisementThe very artists we are being asked to pay to see, would in today’s time be the least likely to afford the fee for entry. I can distinctly remember visiting the Pompidou and other Paris museums. As a [young] artist, I didn’t have to pay. It was a shock and then a relief when the money I had cobbled together could go back in my pocket. It was not only critical as “research” for my craft; that moment empowered me as a human. It said that not only did I matter, but the role of artists also mattered. Artists generally don’t occupy that space in American society. What are we valuing in this difficult political and economic moment? And for young people, especially little black and brown bodies, they are receiving more and more messages that they don’t belong. — Amanda Williams, Chicago, an artist and architect, will be an exhibitor at the United States pavilion at the 2018 Venice Architecture Biennale in May.Pay-what-you-wish, a revered tradition of accessibility that should be a source of pride, is now falling in line with limiting access to health care, restrictive immigration, environmental deregulation, and the ever-increasing economic divide. — Nari Ward, New YorkAdvertisementThis is a moment to reflect on much more than the economics of a great public institution such as the Met. The role of the museum is to reach out into the world, spilling out, rather than centralizing and closing itself off to various groups of people. — Sudarshan Shetty, Mumbai, curator of the 2016 Kochi-Muziris Biennale in India.Now that this “pay what you wish” policy is being taken away, it appears markedly progressive, in retrospect. What was good about the Met’s old policy is that people had to ask themselves what something was worth to them. It could be interesting to turn this question around. Instead of blaming the Met for changing its policy, perhaps we could ask why more museums have not adopted a “pay as you wish” plan. — John Miller, New YorkIn Article 6 of the Met’s mission statement, the museum expresses its intent to “reach out to the widest possible audience in a spirit of inclusiveness.” The new system will diminish that inclusiveness by restricting access of foreigners and out-of-state visitors unable to pay the set admission fee. — Will Cotton, New YorkI know from our experience running a cultural organization in Red Hook that $25 really cuts a whole part of the population out. What about the person who has never been to a place like the Met and then walks out of there with a passion to create? If the Met has an object [in storage] that is not going to be seen for 100 years, put that in private hands then use the money to let people access the other thousands of objects. — Dustin Yellin, artist and founder of the cultural organization Pioneer Works, Red Hook, BrooklynI am not in favor of free admission, except in the case of students who universally should have access to all museums. In most countries, museums are designed and programmed to be accessible to the elite and privileged groups, which can easily afford to pay. To address why museums are not attended more by ethnically diverse backgrounds, one has to address the fundamental questions of representation, nationhood, patronage and more. — Reza Aramesh, LondonArt should be treated like a library of images or history; one goes there to learn and to become a more educated person. Can you imagine a library where you have to pay? — Ghada Amer and Reza Farkhondeh, New YorkThe function of art is to teach us how to think so that we can challenge assumptions and structures, so I would argue that we need radical accessibility to museums now more than ever. Charging admission only keeps these “ironic points of light,” as Auden called them, that give everyone hope, out of the hands of those that need them most. I’m a strong believer in the public museum model in the U.K., which grants free basic museum entry to everyone, local or foreign, rich or poor. — Justin Brice Guariglia, New YorkWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy David E. SangerThe sudden firing on Tuesday of Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, the former Exxon Mobil chief executive who never managed to capture the role of chief diplomat, makes room for a true believer in President Trump’s “America First” views and a bitter critic of the Iran nuclear deal — but also a deep skeptic about whether negotiations will persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear arsenal.Mr. Tillerson’s anticipated replacement, Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director, was among the harshest critics of the 2015 nuclear agreement that world powers brokered with Iran. If confirmed, Mr. Pompeo will take over the State Department just as the president is weighing whether to ditch the deal altogether — even if it outrages European allies.The move would also put Mr. Pompeo, who has been immersed in the details of Pyongyang’s nuclear program, in a central role in running the negotiations with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean dictator whom Mr. Trump has said he will meet by May.For all the criticisms of Mr. Tillerson — and there were many, particularly in the State Department as he moved to slash its size — he was considered a restraining influence on Mr. Trump. Mr. Pompeo, in contrast, has been an enthusiastic defender of the president’s policies, to the point that many senior current and former C.I.A. officials worried that he was far too political for the job.In his public comments — including his dubious contention on Sunday that Mr. Trump has done more to constrain North Korea than any other president — Mr. Pompeo seemed to know that he would probably soon switch from giving the president his daily intelligence brief to carrying out Mr. Trump’s blunt America First vision worldwide.“We’ve had a very good chemistry right from the beginning,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House on Tuesday morning as he described his relationship with Mr. Pompeo.Chemistry is vital between any president and his chief global emissary. But the shift disrupts the delicate balance of power in the administration’s national security team.Mr. Tillerson and Jim Mattis, the defense secretary, had run something of a tag team to keep the president in check, finding common ground on policies from the Middle East to East Asia before stepping into the Situation Room. For the better part of a year, that put Mr. Trump in the position of having to overcome their unified advice, which also was sometimes aligned with the White House national security adviser, H. R. McMaster.One senior administration official who often sat in the backbenches of those meetings last week described Mr. Trump’s growing frustration at being hemmed in by his two principal national security cabinet members.That seems particularly true on Iran, and Mr. Trump singled out that issue on Tuesday as he was preparing to leave for California. He said he and Mr. Tillerson “disagree on things.”“When you look at the Iran deal — I think it’s terrible. I guess he thought it was O.K.,” the president said, referring to Mr. Tillerson. “I wanted to either break it or do something. And he felt a little bit differently.”His comments are certain to alarm European allies who have spent the last few days negotiating with Mr. Tillerson’s closest aide, Brian Hook, on a way to add to the agreement that limited Iran’s nuclear program, rather than reopen or scrap the deal. Those moves were intended to keep Mr. Trump from ditching the agreement in mid-May, when he faces a deadline over continued suspension of American nuclear-related sanctions on Iran.The first Mr. Hook heard of Mr. Tillerson’s ouster was when a reporter for The New York Times called him for comment on Tuesday morning, shortly after the secretary’s 405-day tenure was ended by presidential tweet.Mr. Tillerson’s denouement seemed rife with the symbolism of the change to come. After Mr. Trump was revealed to have used a vulgarity to disparage several African nations, he dispatched Mr. Tillerson on a lengthy trip to the continent last week to make it up to them.But while the secretary was away, Mr. Trump agreed to the meeting with Mr. Kim, catching Mr. Tillerson by surprise — even though he was the one who had long been arguing for opening up a diplomatic channel to North Korea. While in Africa, Mr. Tillerson took a day off to recover from what the State Department said was exhaustion from long nights catching up by phone with Washington.Then he got food poisoning, cut his travels short, and was fired upon landing in the United States.It was clear in recent months that Mr. Tillerson and Mr. Trump were barely talking. The frequent dinners the chief diplomat shared with the president last spring, when the two men were forming their views of how to approach the world, had ended.Mr. Trump had hired Mr. Tillerson because he liked his record of profits and expansion at Exxon, and thought his mane of white hair gave him the look of a secretary of state. But more recently, the president told aides he thought Mr. Tillerson was “weak” — the ultimate insult in Mr. Trump’s world. His affinity for Mr. Pompeo grew as the men bonded over intelligence warnings and authorizations for covert actions.Mr. Pompeo’s rise will solve one central problem in American diplomacy over the past year: When Mr. Tillerson spoke, few thought he was speaking on behalf of the president.“It creates the possibility that someone who is up to speed with the issues, and has a comfortable working relationship with the president, is now in the chair,” said Richard Haass, who served several Republicans and Democrats in senior State Department and National Security Council positions.America’s interlocutors, Mr. Haass added, will now believe the secretary of state “is speaking with the power and backing of the president.”“The question is whether, when President Trump speaks, it sounds like he has consulted his secretary of state,” Mr. Haass, now the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, said in a call from India.The one arena where Mr. Pompeo’s views are still a mystery is Russia. While serving in Congress, he was a critic of President Vladimir V. Putin. As C.I.A. director, Mr. Pompeo said he believed intelligence assessments that Mr. Putin was behind the effort to influence the 2016 election — even though Mr. Trump has dismissed those reports for fear it would undercut the legitimacy of his election.Mr. Pompeo has not, however, gone the next step to describe what he thought the United States should do to counter Russia’s actions.In contrast, Mr. Tillerson had let known his increasing concern about Russia’s activities, and even about Mr. Putin, who famously presented him with an award for his deals with Russia while at Exxon. On Monday, his last day as secretary of state, he agreed with the British government that Russia was most likely behind the nerve gas attack on a Russian living in England — while the White House has hedged about Russia’s responsibilities. Mr. Pompeo’s views are not known.But perhaps the biggest unknown in the ascension of Mr. Pompeo is how it will affect any negotiations with North Korea.He has warned many times, since last summer, that Mr. Kim is “a few months” away from acquiring the ability to strike the United States with a nuclear weapon. That is based on a calculation of how long it will take the North to solve the final problems of designing a warhead that can survive re-entry into the atmosphere atop an intercontinental missile.But Mr. Pompeo has also been in charge of an active covert campaign against the North, which he has alluded to elliptically on several occasions. The question now is whether that covert effort — believed to include sabotage of North Korea’s supply chain and renewed cyberattacks on its missile and nuclear programs — will buy Mr. Trump enough time, and leverage, to make a negotiation work.No agency has been more skeptical about the chances of Mr. Kim’s giving up his arsenal than the C.I.A. itself, under Mr. Pompeo.In a presentation last fall at George Washington University, one of the agency’s top Korea analysts said that in the C.I.A.’s view, no amount of sanctions pressure would persuade Mr. Kim that it was worth giving up the weapons that he believes are his only defense from having his country overrun by the United States and its allies.Associates of Mr. Pompeo say he shares that view — which would suggest that while he may soon be running the North Korea negotiations, his expectations of success are limited.In retrospect, Tuesday’s shift could explain some comments Mr. Pompeo made over the weekend. In interviews on Fox and CBS, he said he had spent part of the weekend reviewing the C.I.A.’s internal history of American negotiations with North Korea for the past quarter-century. That would have been an odd way for a C.I.A. director to spend his reading time; it makes a lot of sense for a future secretary of state.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementBy MARK LANDLER, MAGGIE HABERMAN and GARDINER HARRISMARCH 13, 2018
President Trump announced that the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, will replace Rex W. Tillerson as secretary of state.WASHINGTON — President Trump ousted on Tuesday his secretary of state, Rex W. Tillerson, the most dramatic in a cascade of personnel moves that suggest Mr. Trump is determined to surround himself with loyalists more willing to reflect his “America First” views.Mr. Trump announced he would replace Mr. Tillerson with Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director and former Tea Party congressman, who has cultivated a close relationship with the president and has taken a harder line than Mr. Tillerson on critical issues like Iran and North Korea.Mr. Tillerson’s dismissal, on the heels of Gary D. Cohn’s resignation as Mr. Trump’s chief economic adviser after a dispute over steel tariffs, pulls the Trump administration further out of the economic and foreign policy mainstream and closer to the nationalist ideas that animated Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.It also suggests that after a year of chaotic on-the-job training, Mr. Trump has developed more confidence in his own instincts and wants aides and cabinet members with whom he has good chemistry and who embrace his positions.AdvertisementAs the White House absorbed the news about Mr. Tillerson, rumors swirled that the national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, and the secretary of Veterans Affairs, David J. Shulkin, would soon follow him out the door. The sense of disarray was deepened by the purging of Mr. Tillerson’s inner circle and the sudden dismissal of a personal aide to Mr. Trump.Advertisement“I’m really at a point where we’re getting very close to having the cabinet and other things I want,” Mr. Trump said Tuesday before leaving for a trip to California. He said he disagreed with Mr. Tillerson on the Iran nuclear deal and on other issues.“It was a different mind-set,” Mr. Trump said.Their lack of rapport was evident in the peremptory way the president fired him. Mr. Tillerson learned of it on Tuesday morning when an aide showed him a Twitter post from Mr. Trump announcing the change. But he had gotten a warning last Friday when the chief of staff, John F. Kelly, called to tell him to cut short a trip to Africa and added, “You may get a tweet.”It was an abrupt end after months of speculation — to a star-crossed tenure for a Texas oil baron who never adapted to the power dynamics of Mr. Trump’s world, or to the president’s worldview. Mr. Tillerson clashed with the White House staff and broke with Mr. Trump on a range of issues, including the dispute between Saudi Arabia and Qatar and the American response to Russia’s cyberaggression.However sudden his departure, Mr. Tillerson’s future had seemed tenuous since reports last October that he called Mr. Trump a “moron” in a meeting with colleagues at the Pentagon. Mr. Trump, aides said, never forgave him.Mr. Tillerson had a hectic schedule of meetings set for Tuesday afternoon. Instead, after a brief phone call with Mr. Trump, he appeared in the State Department briefing room at 2 p.m. to confirm he would hand over his duties to his deputy at midnight.“What is most important,” he said, his voice thick with emotion, “is to ensure an orderly and smooth transition during a time that the country continues to face significant policy and national security challenges.”In Mr. Pompeo, the president will have a hawkish secretary of state, who is more skeptical of diplomatic engagement with North Korea, just as Mr. Trump is preparing to meet the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, and is far readier to rip up the Iran nuclear deal, two months before Mr. Trump faces his next deadline to decide whether to reimpose sanctions on Tehran.AdvertisementAs Mr. Pompeo’s replacement at the C.I.A., Mr. Trump named the current deputy director, Gina Haspel. A respected career official, she would be the first woman to lead the agency. But Ms. Haspel also oversaw a secret C.I.A. prison in Thailand when a terrorism suspect was waterboarded there and she later drafted a cable ordering the destruction of videotapes documenting brutal interrogations — both of which could complicate her Senate confirmation.At the Department of Veterans Affairs, Mr. Trump has grown impatient with Mr. Shulkin, a politically moderate former hospital executive who served in the Obama administration. He recently sounded out Rick Perry, the current energy secretary, about taking over the department, according to two people close to the White House.For Mr. Cohn’s successor, the president said he was seriously considering Larry Kudlow, a Reagan administration official who is now a conservative commentator on CNBC. While Mr. Trump acknowledged differences with him on trade policy, he said Mr. Kudlow had come around to the argument that tariffs were an effective tool in negotiating trade deals.Besides, he added, “Larry has been a friend of mine for a long time. He backed me very early in the campaign.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At the White House, officials faced the familiar challenge of presenting a methodical rationale for Mr. Trump’s impulsive moves. One aide said he decided to replace Mr. Tillerson now to have a new team in place before the talks with Mr. Kim, which are scheduled to happen by May. But Mr. Tillerson was the most persistent advocate of opening talks with North Korea.The White House’s purge extended to Mr. Tillerson’s staff. The under secretary of state for public affairs, Steve Goldstein, was fired after he issued a statement that seemed to contradict the White House. Mr. Tillerson’s chief of staff, Margaret Peterlin, and his deputy chief of staff, Christine Ciccone, were also expected to depart.That followed the early-morning dismissal of Mr. Trump’s aide, John McEntee, who had his security clearance revoked and was escorted from the White House grounds.A former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, Mr. Tillerson had once been viewed as an intriguing, if unorthodox, cabinet choice. He had deep experience with Middle Eastern potentates, and knew President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia through Exxon’s extensive efforts to explore for oil in Russia.AdvertisementBut Mr. Tillerson’s determination to bring a business sensibility to the State Department backfired, leaving it demoralized and understaffed. Despite his global experience, Mr. Tillerson was ill suited to the public duties of the United States’ chief diplomat and was isolated from the career officials whom he often froze out of the most important policy debates.“The State Department clearly has not been built into the kind of global organization that one would prefer,” Henry A. Kissinger, a former secretary of state, said in a telephone interview.Mr. Kissinger said Mr. Pompeo’s political skills would make him a better choice for the job. “I have confidence that Pompeo understands this and will do it because I think he understands the political linkages better,” he said.Along with Mr. Kelly and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, Mr. Tillerson had functioned as part of a triumvirate that was viewed as a brake on Mr. Trump. Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, once referred to them as “those people that help separate our country from chaos.”Mr. Tillerson was close to Mr. Mattis, meeting him regularly for breakfast. The defense secretary, who is traveling in Afghanistan, was not informed beforehand that Mr. Tillerson was being fired, according to an administration official. While Mr. Kelly was an early ally of Mr. Tillerson’s, officials said he cooled on him because of his repeated clashes with the White House.Mr. Tillerson had a rancorous relationship with both General McMaster and Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser. He resented that Mr. Trump had entrusted Mr. Kushner, a 37-year-old diplomatic neophyte, with the Middle East peace portfolio and trade negotiations with Mexico, according to people in the White House.When the National Security Council tried to send officials on Mr. Tillerson’s trips, an official said, he either objected or excluded them from key meetings. And when the president named his daughter Ivanka Trump to lead a delegation to India, Mr. Tillerson downgraded the status of the State Department officials who accompanied her — irritating the president.But his policy disagreements with the president appeared to be his undoing: Mr. Tillerson wanted to remain in the Paris climate accord; Mr. Trump decided to leave it. Mr. Tillerson supported preserving the Iran nuclear deal; Mr. Trump loathed the deal as “an embarrassment to the United States.” And Mr. Tillerson called for dialogue to resolve the North Korean nuclear crisis, while Mr. Trump threatened a military strike.AdvertisementMr. Tillerson also broke with Mr. Trump in the bitter dispute between Saudi Arabia and Qatar — a decision that cost him with Persian Gulf leaders. The leaders, several of whom are visiting Washington in coming weeks, lobbied the White House to replace Mr. Tillerson with Mr. Pompeo.At times, White House officials said, Mr. Tillerson’s behavior verged on insubordination. The administration, for example, was extremely cautious in responding to reports that Russia was behind the deadly nerve-gas attack in Britain. But when Mr. Tillerson was asked about it in Africa, he said, “It appears that it clearly came from Russia.”His statement infuriated the White House, which had crafted its talking points with lawyers at the State Department to keep the United States in lock step with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain. Instead, an official said, Mr. Tillerson made the White House look like it was soft on Mr. Putin, which he insisted was not the intention.Mr. Tillerson’s relations inside the State Department were scarcely better. The department’s policymaking process devolved into conversations between Mr. Tillerson and a lone aide, Brian H. Hook, neither of whom had much experience with the countries they discussed.“The relationship between top management and the bulk of the State Department was toxic,” said Ambassador James F. Jeffrey, a former senior diplomat. “And that was a total mystery because the people at the State Department would work for the devil if he is advancing American interests, which Mr. Tillerson was.”Reporting was contributed by Helene Cooper, Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Nicholas Fandos from Washington, and Peter Baker from San Diego.A version of this article appears in print on March 14, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tillerson Ousted as Trump Silences Dissent in Cabinet.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BILLY WITZAPRIL 2, 2018
By the time Giancarlo Cruz Michael Stanton was in junior high school, he had grown weary of classmates mocking him for his given name and of teachers and coaches mangling the pronunciation of it. His friend Enrique didn’t care for his own name, either.Together they made a pact. They would go by Mike and Ricky.“He came in one day,” said Stanton’s mother, Jacinta Garay, “and said: ‘Mom, I hate my name. Why did you name me that?’ And on and on.”What Stanton didn’t know was that it could have been worse. His mother was going to name him Fidel.“No, you’re not,” she recalled her husband telling her at the time. “No, you’re not. No, you’re not. No, you’re not.”AdvertisementMike Stanton, now her ex-husband, stood his ground.“That,” he recalled in March, sitting with Garay in the living room of her home in the Los Angeles area, “was something worth fighting for.”AdvertisementA week later, outside the Yankees’ spring training clubhouse in Tampa, Fla., Giancarlo Stanton said he had no idea about any of this.“Nuh-uh,” he said, laughing, but also realizing the name Fidel wouldn’t have gone over well with the Cuban exile community in South Florida. The Marlins drafted him in 2007 as a 17-year-old, eventually awarded him a $325 million contract and watched him develop into a National League  most valuable player before trading him to the Yankees in December.“Thank you for not naming me that, especially being drafted by Miami,” said Stanton, who will make his home debut for the Yankees on Monday afternoon. “That would have been not so good.”We are all born into names, and, like circumstance, some are more fortunate than others, particularly for athletes. Amid the dysfunction of the Knicks, Carmelo Anthony’s countenance remained Melo. Why wouldn’t Noah Syndergaard, towering with flowing blond hair, embrace his distant heritage and answer to the name fans gave him, Thor? And there would not be an admonition for all to rise for Aaron Judge if his adoptive parents had been named Jones.While some athletes are destined to embody their names, Stanton’s name — polyglot, lyrical and lengthy — may reveal something about him, too.If he had stayed with Mike — the name he used publicly through high school and during his first two seasons with the Marlins — he would not even be the first Mike Stanton to play for the Yankees. But there has never been another Giancarlo to play in the major leagues.“You’ve got something unique, you don’t run from it, you embrace it,” said Stanton, whose bats and gloves have always been stamped with “Giancarlo.” “I’ve met some cool fans that come up and say, ‘Hey, we’ve got the same name.’ But, personally, there’s no one in my phone that I say, ‘Oh, what up, Giancarlo?’ I like the uniqueness of it.”AdvertisementThat is not to say he minds what people call him. His mother calls him Cruz, his father calls him Mike, relatives call him Mikey and his new teammates mostly call him G. His parents gave him so many names, they said, in part so he could choose the one he liked.When Giancarlo was learning how to write, he made a drawing for his father. He spelled out his first name, all in lowercase, with brightly colored markers. His father took it to work at the post office and hung it in his locker.If it was hard then to see his son growing up to be one of baseball’s best players, it was easier in that drawing to see an expression of what he might become — his attention to detail, his zest for rich experiences and an embrace of his name.In that way, along with his uncommon size, 6 feet 6 inches and 245 pounds, Stanton seems to be neatly tailored for New York and all that it has to offer. Until now, his exposure to the city’s culture, clubs and cuisine has come in small bites: a night out here, a weekend there. Home runs, like the two he hit on opening day on Thursday in Toronto, will make it easier for the fans to embrace him. But they will also make it harder for him to blend into the background.Stanton was raised in the melting pot Tujunga area of Los Angeles by a mother and father who were poles apart. His parents were married for 10 years — splitting up when he was 8 — and seem to have but one thing in common: They both worked for the Postal Service.Mike has the wit and fashion sense of a suburban dad — khaki shorts with the shirt tucked in, white socks, a sweatband on his wrist — and is as deeply abiding as one. He was there for his son growing up — throwing him batting practice after school before putting in a night shift — and in his moment of peril, accompanying him to a hospital when he was horrifically hit in the face by a pitch in 2014.Jacinta Garay, whose parents were African-American and Puerto Rican, has piercings on each cheek and musical tastes ranging from Afro-Latin jazz to Lynyrd Skynyrd. She recently got her first cellphone so Giancarlo no longer had to leave a message on the house phone to reach her. But she still rates as a cool enough mom that Stanton invited her to his birthday party at a Hollywood club so she could meet Snoop Dogg.Of her son’s predilection for haute couture (and flashy sneakers, including a pair of gold metallic high tops), his mother said: “He’s really into coordination and how things look and how to match the colors. The bling tennis shoes — he gets that from me. And he teases me about the furry boots?”AdvertisementSaid his father, with resignation: “He didn’t learn how to dress from me.”When it came to naming her children, Garay’s eclectic tastes mostly reigned. Her older son, Egidio Carlos Moacir Garay, has a first name she found poetic with the Portuguese soft “g” (pronounced e-JID-e-o) — but off-putting with a hard Spanish “g.” Moacir is a nod to the Brazilian jazz composer Moacir Santos.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Her daughter, who is two years older than Giancarlo (pronounced zhon-CAR-lo), was supposed to be a boy, so Kyricio became Kyrice (pronounced KIE-reece); her middle name is Valivia, the name of Garay’s grandmother.When her plan to name her younger son Fidel was quashed, she pondered an alternative. An aficionado of foreign and independent films, Garay revered the actors Giancarlo Giannini and Giancarlo Esposito, and she liked the way the name sounded. “I talked to my cousin and she was, ‘Yeah, let’s do it,’ because we just loved the way that Giancarlo flows,” Garay said, pronouncing it with a flourish.(Stanton’s second name came because his mother’s favorite singer was Celia Cruz and because an actor who lived in the neighborhood — A Martinez — played a character named Cruz on the late-1980s soap opera “Santa Barbara.”)If their names caused occasional angst, the children did not stew over it. Egidio went by E. G., Kyrice went by Ky and Giancarlo became Mike.“We just chalked it up to, my mom went to too many Parliament concerts in the ’70s,” said Egidio, 38, who teaches political science at Glendale Community College in California. “It just kind of was. It wasn’t something we spent a lot of time deconstructing.”In retrospect, though, their names may have subtly spurred his worldview.“Growing up in more suburban areas where you have that name that stands out, it’s already pointing you out as being a little different,” Egidio said. “Being a little kid in first grade being picked on for your ethnicity and identity, it compels you to make those broader connections to cultures and have a wider horizon about the world.”For Giancarlo, there were other nudges to do that. His father had traveled to China, India and Africa. His uncle Miguele would bring him gifts and regale him with tales about his frequent visits to Colombia, and take him to local Latin festivals. Giancarlo’s eyes were opened further when he took a trip with high school classmates to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, at the tip of Baja California Sur. He went fishing, rode all-terrain vehicles on the beach, ate Mexican food and listened to mariachi.“It was fascinating to me,” said Stanton, who in recent off-seasons began to explore Europe, and then places further afield, cities like Istanbul, Bucharest, Jerusalem and Dubai. Asia and South America are being considered as the next possible destinations. “You don’t understand until you grow up a little bit how cool places are.”The more recent trips have been with two housemates — the former Marlins pitchers A. J. Ramos and Ricky Nolasco — and another friend, the Marlins clubhouse attendant Jeremy Ruder.AdvertisementStanton’s Instagram feed — a montage of photos from shirtless workouts, vacation spots, celebrity hobnobbing and other areas of the baseball life — are often accompanied by pithy captions that show an often self-deprecating wit.“On the field it’s hard to joke around — I’m game time,” Stanton said. “But off, when I’m not working, I’m a jokester. I don’t want to spend all my energy being mad and focused.”While Stanton’s Yankees teammates have been struck by how fastidiously he adheres to his hitting and workout routines, he is adamant about leaving his work at the office. He has told his father, at times, that he does not want to talk about baseball with him. And Ramos, who has lived with him since 2011, said that in the time they have known each other, they have not had more than 10 conversations about baseball away from the ballpark.The travels over the winter also provide a necessary break from baseball.“We play seven months, counting spring training, and you’re so regimented that if you don’t get away it makes you crazy,” said Ramos, the Mets reliever who will share an apartment with Stanton in New York this season. “We actually set a plan for what we want to do, and 100 percent of that time we don’t even stick to that plan. There’s no one holding us to it but us. That’s the balance.”While Ramos has relished experiences like riding to a pyramid in Egypt on camelback — “It looks fake, like it’s in a movie,” he said — their group also returned home with conversations that challenged the way they think. “You go there and you see what’s true and not true,” he said.For Stanton, his first trip to Europe was a transformational one. Though it was regimented — he did baseball clinics in the Netherlands, Czech Republic and Italy after the 2011 season — the architecture, the food and the culture were unlike anything he had seen growing up in Los Angeles, bouncing through minor league towns or living in Miami.He also noticed how it sounded to hear names like Gianpiero, Gianpaolo, Gianluigi and even Giancarlo.AdvertisementWhen he returned to Los Angeles, he matter-of-factly mentioned to his parents that the next season he was no longer going to go by Mike.“I was shocked,” his mother said. “I had my mouth open for a week. He’s going to go by Giancarlo now? Are you serious?”“Yeah,” his father said. “I didn’t see it coming.”Stanton said it was simply a matter of growing up, of coming to a fuller appreciation of what was important to him. And part of that was making sure that people knew him not only by the home runs he hit, but also by his name.A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: How a Star  Lost a Name  And Found  Himself.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JACK EWINGMARCH 9, 2018
FRANKFURT — South Korea made an impassioned appeal to the American secretary of defense and national security adviser, reminding them of its role trying to defang North Korea. Europe pointed out that it was, in fact, a longstanding military ally of the United States.But it was Australia that deployed a secret weapon a day after President Trump signed an order imposing tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, as nations jockeyed for exemptions from the levies.“We’re calling in all contacts at every level,” Julie Bishop, Australia’s foreign minister, told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Top among those enlisted: the golfing legend Greg Norman, a friend of Mr. Trump’s. “We will continue to push our case, we’ll continue to advocate on behalf of Australia for as long as it takes,” she said.In seeking to win a respite from the tariffs, American allies tried a mix of persuasion and threats, personal appeals and diplomatic leverage. But they faced a delicate balancing act. A country that offers something in return for an exemption could set a precedent, allowing the White House to make further demands in the future in return for access to the United States market, and fracture any sense of unity between capitals from Brussels to Seoul that have roundly criticized the tariffs.AdvertisementQuestions over how to pressure Mr. Trump were similarly perilous. Nations trying to protect their own domestic steel and aluminum producers risked creating an every-nation-for-itself atmosphere, undermining the decades-old World Trade Organization system for resolving global trade disputes. But taking legal action could not only start a protracted process but also set off American ire.Advertisement“If you now start making concessions on other things, you give in to blackmail,” said Guntram Wolff, the director of Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels. “I would reject that.”On Saturday, Cecilia Malmström, the European Union’s trade commissioner, met with the United States trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, in Brussels, after a meeting that also included Japan to talk about steel overcapacity. There was no resolution of the tariffs issue, however.European Union countries have been compiling a list of American products that could be subject to reciprocal levies. The provisional list correlated strongly with Republican congressional districts and included Harley-Davidson motorcycles, bourbon, rice, kidney beans, sweet corn, tobacco and peanut butter.The region is likely to face a tough decision, however, about whether to wait for World Trade Organization approval, a lengthy process, or simply to impose the retaliatory sanctions. Cecilia Malmstrom, the European commissioner for trade, said during a news conference in Brussels on Wednesday that any fight back against the United States would be “by the book.”But even as European Union leaders prepared for retaliatory action, they also recalled the long history of trans-Atlantic bonhomie.Brigitte Zypries, the German economics minister, wrote in a letter to Wilbur Ross, the United States commerce secretary, that Europe and America should work together to address the real problem: a global glut of steel production that has driven down prices.“We need trans-Atlantic solidarity on this issue, and not trade conflicts,” she said.Still, there were signs that attempts by some countries to win tariff immunity from the United States were sowing tension among European allies.AdvertisementLiam Fox, Britain’s international trade secretary, told the BBC on Friday he would “be looking to see how we can maximize the U.K.’s case for exemption” when he visits Washington next week. The suggestion that Britain might go its own way provoked a rebuke from Jyrki Katainen, European Union vice president for jobs and competitiveness. “We cannot accept that the E.U. is divided to different categories,” Mr. Katainen said Friday.Australia had already shown how to win Mr. Trump’s favor with an energetic lobbying effort that seems to be paying off. The president, who excluded Canada and Mexico from the tariffs, singled out Australia on Thursday as another country that could be exempt.Ms. Bishop, the Australian foreign minister, said she had been in contact with Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson while he had been traveling in Africa. She also said she had spoken with close business contacts of Mr. Trump. And she made her case to Nikki Haley, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, while in New York this week.Australia also deployed Mr. Norman, the golfer known as the Great White Shark, who has been effusive in his praise of his friend Mr. Trump.Mr. Norman and a handful of other prominent Australian business leaders signed a letter beseeching Mr. Trump not to take “any action that might have demonstrable negative impact on the mutually beneficial American-Australian bilateral relationship.”The efforts may be paying off. On Friday, Mr. Trump said on Twitter that he had spoken to the country’s prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull. “Working very quickly on a security agreement so we don’t have to impose steel or aluminum tariffs on our ally, the great nation of Australia,” he said.South Korean envoys appealed for their own exemption when they visited the White House this week to brief Mr. Trump on their meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. The meeting set the stage for Mr. Trump to agree to meet Mr. Kim for negotiations on North Korea’s nuclear arsenal.The envoys urged Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis and H.R. McMaster, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, to intervene for the sake of the alliance, said Kim Eui-kyeom, the spokesman for South Korean President Moon Jae-in.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Whether the appeals will work is an open question. Despite South Korea’s critical role in defusing tensions with North Korea, the Trump administration has claimed the country is a conduit for Chinese steel evading anti-dumping rules — a practice known as transshipping. South Korean officials have argued that only 2.4 percent of steel exported to the United States in 2016 used Chinese material.AdvertisementSeoul is badly in need of a free pass for its steel industry. The country accounts for almost 10 percent of United States steel imports and stands to suffer the most from tariffs.That highlights another problem with Mr. Trump’s protectionist thrust: Most of the producers hurt are friends, or at least thought they were.“The difficulty is that a huge portion of U.S. steel imports come from core allies like Nafta, Japan, Australia, and Brazil,” said Seth Rosenfeld, an analyst at Jefferies, an investment bank, in London. “The U.S. will be in a situation where it is granting Japan an exemption and not Korea and this has the risk of royally disrupting your geopolitics.”American allies were particularly floored by Mr. Trump’s justification for the tariffs. He invoked a provision of W.T.O. rules that allows countries to impose trade restrictions in the interest of national security.“How India or any other country could be a threat to the U.S. within the steel industry, I don’t know,” said Shivramkrishnan Hariharan, the commercial director of Essar Steel, a large steel manufacturer based in Mumbai.The national security argument seemed even weaker when applied to South Korea or European countries that have formal military alliances with the United States.The tariffs “have nothing to do with the security of the United States,” Georg Streiter, a spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, said at a news briefing Friday. “It’s purely business.”Argentina’s president, Mauricio Macri, made his country’s request for an exemption in a Friday morning phone call to Mr. Trump. Mr. Macri expressed “his concern over the potential negative effect of these measures,” the Argentine government said. “Trump expressed a commitment to evaluate his request.”AdvertisementArgentina is already paying a price for United States trade barriers. Last year, the Department of Commerce imposed duties of up to 70 percent on Argentine biodiesel, virtually shutting off what had been the most lucrative market for the country’s soybean-based biofuel.While foreign officials said they hoped to use diplomacy to win exemptions to the steel and aluminum tariffs, they also reserved the right to get nasty. The European Union, South Korea and others said they would file complaints with the W.T.O., which under international treaties has the power to resolve trade disputes.Among them was Brazil, which sends steel products to the United States but also imported about $1 billion in American coal last year for its metals industry.Jorge Arbache, the Brazilian planning ministry’s secretary for foreign affairs, said in an interview that the Brazilian government was still trying to work things out in a friendly way.But he noted that his country retained some options, including appealing to the W.T.O., or reducing its purchases from the United States.“If we produce less steel,” Mr. Arbache said, “we may import less American coal.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the surname of the Brazilian planning ministry’s secretary for foreign affairs. He is Jorge Arbache, not Abrache.Follow Jack Ewing on Twitter: @JackEwingNYT.Reporting was contributed by Jacqueline Williams from Sydney, Australia; Kai Schultz from New Delhi; Milan Schreuer from Paris; Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea; Shasta Darlington from São Paulo; Stanley Reed from London; and Ernesto Londoño from Buenos Aires.A version of this article appears in print on March 10, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Threats, Pleas and a Golf Great: Nations’ Tactics for Tariff Relief.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinMARCH 6, 2018
Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Gary Cohn is exiting the White House.• Why Cfius thinks Broadcom’s bid for Qualcomm is a national security matter• A top aluminum lobbying group argues against tariffs• Should mutual funds become activists on guns?• Could the Trump tariffs be weakened?Want this in your inbox every morning? Sign up here.Will the gains investors have made under President Trump now walk out the door, too?Mr. Cohn was an influential figure in the White House. As the president’s top economic adviser, he opposed policies, like the tariffs announced last week, that go against the prevailing global economic order. Now that Mr. Cohn is leaving, investors may fear that Mr. Trump and others in his administration will step up their assault on globalism, stoking the chances of a trade war and other tensions that damage the real economy.AdvertisementMr. Cohn has telegraphed his unhappiness with some of President Trump’s policies, so his departure may not come as a surprise to investors. They also may believe that the chaos in the White House will limit the administration’s ability to deliver on policies investors don’t like. And of course, investors may hope that Mr. Trump, unwilling to see the stock market’s gains unwind, stays his hand. It’s even possible that Mr. Trump will keep talking to Mr. Cohn after he leaves, or that he will replace Mr. Cohn with someone with similar views, like Larry Kudlow.AdvertisementStill, the Dow Jones industrial average may open sharply down on Wednesday morning. The markets were rattled in August when there were rumors that Mr. Cohn might resign. And futures markets on Tuesday evening pointed to a lower open.But even if there is no plunge, now is a moment for investors to make up their minds about populism.For two years, the markets have consistently shrugged off everything from Britain’s departure from the European Union to the election of Mr. Trump to the rise of non-mainstream parties in Europe. Investors could look the other way because global growth was picking up, and Mr. Trump was introducing pro-business policies like tax cuts and deregulation.But investors and populists are entwined in a way that is not obvious. Right now, economies are suffering from what could be called “Toxic Goldilocks Syndrome.” The stimulus of central banks has delivered moderate economic growth and steady returns for investors that keep them happy. At the same time, though, the central bank’s policies have struggled to solve deeper problems like income inequality and low labor market participation. As these persist, they provide fuel for populist candidates.What could change now?With Mr. Cohn leaving, one of Mr. Trump’s policies may end up causing real economic damage. That’s a concern of investors, at least. But then much depends on how the Federal Reserve responds. If, say, Mr. Trump’s tariffs dampened growth this year, the Fed might choose to raise interest rates once, rather than three times, in effect helping investors and the White House.But there is a much brighter scenario. Despite the deeper economic problems and the tumult over trade, growth picks up to a level that causes a real bump in wages this year, and Mr. Trump decides to bask in that success, rather than aiming a wrecking ball at the international economic order.But who’s around now to make that argument?— Peter EavisCfius said that Broadcom’s proposed deal to acquire rival chip maker Qualcomm could pose a national security risk and called for a full investigation into the hostile bid, according to a letter from a United States Treasury official.During the time between Qualcomm’s unilateral filing and Treasury’s agency filing, Cfius has been communicating with both parties to obtain additional information to inform its decision on the appropriate path forward in regards to this matter. It was during this time, and as a result of these communications and additional information, that Cfius has come to believe that Broadcom’s successful hostile takeover attempt of Qualcomm, including the related stock purchase, proxy contest for the election of six directors to Qualcomm’s Board as proposed and selected by Broadcom, Proposed Agreement and Plan of Merger, and any potential merger between Broadcom and Qualcomm, could pose a risk to the national security of the United States.The letter goes on to say:Cfius has identified potential national security concerns that warrant a full investigation of the proposed transaction. Articulation of the potential national security concerns, in significant part, is classified.The move complicates an already contentious deal, increasing the likelihood that Broadcom will end its pursuit of Qualcomm. Such investigations are often death knells for corporate deals.AdvertisementCfius said that the potential risk was related to Broadcom’s relationships with foreign entities.A spokesman for Broadcom told DealBook in a statement, “we are fully cooperating with Cfius.”Michael’s takeThough Cfius stressed the importance of protecting national security, relatively little of the letter focused on explaining traditional matters of national security. Though the document mentioned Broadcom’s “relationships with third party foreign entities,” it does not go into detail about those ties.The letter does note that descriptions of national security concerns are largely classified. But it makes no mention of Qualcomm’s publicly disclosed partnerships with Huawei, the Chinese rival long considered closely tied to Beijing, on the 5G standard, either.What Cfius appears capable of describing publicly is concern about how Broadcom might manage Qualcomm after a successful takeover. The government panel describes Broadcom’s potential approach as akin to “private equity,” referring to the company’s well-known penchant for cutting costs to help drive profits.To the government, that could pose dangers for Qualcomm’s edge in advancing 5G technology. The chip maker is considered, along with Huawei, to be one of the two leading developers of the superfast wireless standard, and any potential disruption to its business could mean ceding an important advantage to the Chinese, Cfius writes.“While the United States remains dominant in the standards-setting space currently, China would likely compete robustly to fill any void left by Qualcomm as a result of this hostile takeover. Given well-known U.S. national security concerns about Huawei and other Chinese telecommunications companies, a shift to Chinese dominance in 5G would have substantial negative national security consequences for the United States.”Cfius’s letter also notes that Qualcomm supplies the United States government with important products, and consults on cybersecurity matters relating to 5G and the internet of things. Any disruption of that work, the panel writes, “could have a detrimental impact on national security.”Another take from a friend of DealBookHere are tweets by Steven Davidoff Solomon, long known as our colleague the Deal Professor:
            Resending as thread: The letter from CFIUS on Broadcm and Qualcomm is remarkable and a must read. One of the security risks cited is the operation of Q in a private equity manner, with underinvestment in R&D! Of course, Huawei and China make an appearance: https://t.co/KlkZXMAOdj 
            The ramifications of a broad-based investment approach by CFIUS to approval of deals has wide-spread ramifications. With the tariffs and CFIUS we are entering into a realpolitik of American trade.        
            This realpolitik acknowledges that China uses its antitrust policy to obtain technology from US companies, China and many other countries prohibit U.S. investment in certain industries and the state apparatus benefits domestic companies. The U.S. is merely playing catch-up.        — Michael de la MercedPresident Trump said that he is thinking of putting tariffs on imported aluminum and steel to protect the domestic metal industries. But in a letter to the White House today, the Aluminum Association said that the move would be a bad idea.From the group’s letter, signed by its C.E.O., Heidi Brock:We fear that the proposed tariff may do more harm than good, hurting rather than helping the 97 percent of aluminum industry jobs in mid-and-downstream production processes.In the letter, the association says that more narrowly targeted tariffs on Chinese production — which would be more akin to what previous administrations have done — and exemptions for trading partners like Canada and the E.U. would be better.AdvertisementWorth noting:  The association’s website says that it represents both U.S. and foreign suppliers.— Michael de la MercedPolicy flyaround• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin tells lawmakers: “We are not looking to get into trade wars.” (Bloomberg)• Harley-Davidson is bracing for a one-two punch: President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum and threats of retaliation from Europe. (Bloomberg)• Goldman said President Trump “would have been better served by targeted tariffs on steel and aluminum instead of the broad, “draconian” taxes he announced last week.” (CNBC)BlackBerry has filed a lawsuit against the social media giant for patent infringement. BlackBerry argues that Facebook and its Whatsapp and Instagram apps copied technology and features from BlackBerry Messenger, Reuters reports.BlackBerry said in a filing with a Los Angeles federal court.“Defendants created mobile messaging applications that co-opt BlackBerry’s innovations, using a number of the innovative security, user interface, and functionality enhancing features.”Facebook Deputy General Counsel Paul Grewal told Reuters:“BlackBerry’s suit sadly reflects the current state of its messaging business. Having abandoned its efforts to innovate, Blackberry is now looking to tax the innovation of others.”“BlackBerry is trying to persuade other companies to pay licensing royalties to use its trove of more than 40,000 global patents on technology including operating systems, networking infrastructure, acoustics, messaging, automotive subsystems, cybersecurity and wireless communications,” Reuters reports.Greg Greeley, an executive at Amazon, is joining Airbnb as president of Homes. He will oversee the company’s core business, including its newly launched Airbnb Plus and Airbnb Collections programs.“Words can’t express how excited I am to join the Airbnb team,” Mr. Greeley said. “I’ve used Airbnb for years, and the chance to work here and expand the positive impact its community is having around the world is a once in a lifetime opportunity.”AdvertisementMr. Greeley has spent the past 18 years at Amazon. Most recently, he led Amazon Prime. Before that, he oversaw the launch of businesses in India and Brazil for the e-commerce giant and managed its European consumer businesses.ContextAirbnb has been reorganizing and building out its executive ranks. Last month, Belinda Johnson, the home-rental company’s chief business affairs and legal officer, was named the chief operating officer, and Laurence Tosi, Airbnb’s chief financial officer, left the company to focus on his investment fund.Every expert that Michael and our colleagues spoke to yesterday acknowledged that the national security panel’s review of Broadcom’s bid for Qualcomm was extraordinary. (One other time Cfius was involved in a contested situation, recalled by Reuters: BHP Billiton’s bid for Rio Tinto in 2008.)Its move shows Washington’s worries about the selling of U.S. companies to foreign counterparts — and its willingness to act. From Alan Rappeport, Cecilia Kang and Chad Bray of the NYT:With the White House making the case for more government intervention, Cfius is expected to gain more authority. A bipartisan group of lawmakers wants to expand the panel’s scope beyond mergers, giving it the power to review joint ventures and investments in start-ups.The deal context: Qualcomm filed for a review of the proxy fight on Jan. 29, before voting on the board contest began. But as of yesterday, Broadcom looked on course to win at least four seats, with a decent chance of six. Big index funds like BlackRock and Vanguard hadn’t voted yet.Bonus explainer: Everything you’d want to know about Cfius.In other foreign deals: The Chicago Stock Exchange’s proposed sale to Chinese investors is dead.Some institutional investors have talked about divesting their shares in gun makers like American Outdoor Brands and Vista Outdoor. (And some, like the Carlyle Group’s David Rubenstein, say they will never invest in the industry.)But, Andrew asks, what if those giants became shareholder activists to change those businesses? From his latest column:BlackRock has enormous influence over both gun makers and retailers. It could pressure them to raise the minimum age for buying AR-15-style rifles to 25 years old, and impose strict screening and background checks that go far beyond what is required by law. BlackRock could even push gun makers to stop producing such weapons altogether.The rub: Any decision has to be anchored by financial logic, since BlackRock and others have fiduciary duties to their own investors. But then gun makers are facing costs from boycotts by both consumers and businesses like REI.Elsewhere in guns: A bipartisan bill would require federal officials to notify state law enforcement within 24 hours if someone fails a national background check. And the dating app Bumble has banned gun-related images from user profiles.Though President Trump insisted that the tariffs on all imported aluminum and steel are coming, there are signs that he may soften their impact.Advertisement• He left open the possibility that Canada and Mexico could be exempt if they signed a new Nafta pact.• Gary Cohn is organizing a meeting with executives from U.S. companies that would be hurt by tariffs, according to Bloomberg.Who has criticized the tariffs: House Speaker Paul Ryan, Goldman Sachs economists and the consulting firm The Trade Partnership.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Europe’s plan: It includes retaliatory tariffs on Harley-Davidson motorcycles and Kentucky bourbon and challenges at the World Trade Organization. (Those moves may also violate W.T.O. rules.) As Jean-Claude Juncker of the European Commission said on Friday, “It’s actually a stupid process that we must to do this, but we have to.”Elsewhere on tariffs: Why economists don’t hate the trade deficit.• Corporations could end up paying more in state taxes because of the federal tax overhaul. (WSJ)• Washington State is getting its own net neutrality rules. (NYT)• The Trump administration urged the Supreme Court to expand states’ authority to collect sales tax on internet purchases. (WSJ)• The bank that processed a $130,000 payment from President Trump’s personal lawyer to an adult-film actress flagged the transaction to the Treasury Department as suspicious, an unnamed source says. (WSJ)Advertisement• A Belarusian escort with close ties to the Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska says she has evidence relevant to the Russia investigation. (NYT)• The Trump name has been pried off its only hotel in Latin America, but the Trump Organization denies losing control of the property. (NYT)• Sam Nunberg, a onetime Trump campaign aide, told many news outlets yesterday that he didn’t want to appear before a grand jury, among other things. (NYT)The Volcker Rule campaign: The Fed is working on “material changes” to the rule, which was meant to reduce banks’ ability to make risky and speculative trades, according to our colleague Matthew Goldstein. Among the proponents is Randal Quarles, the Fed’s vice chair for supervision. Peter Eavis notes one group grateful for the Volcker Rule: investors in banks.The foreign bank campaign: Peter Eavis dived into how Deutsche Bank and others are trying to take advantage of a bill that would relax regulations for regional banks. In short: banks with less than $250 billion in assets would enjoy more relaxed rules, and foreign banks — which oversee less than $250 billion in assets in the U.S. — want in.Elsewhere in regulations: Don’t expect more disclosure under the S.E.C.’s new cybersecurity rules, according to White Collar Watch.Michael broke the news yesterday that a nine-year-old reviews site, The Infatuation, had bought Zagat — the “iconic” and quote-mark-happy restaurant guide built around contributions from readers — from Google.What is The Infatuation? It was founded by two former music executives and grew by embracing technology: It created the “#EEEEEATS” branded hashtag on Instagram and a texting-based restaurant recommendation service.AdvertisementThe big question: Can even a company that rose to fame with Instagram hashtags keep Zagat relevant amid a slew of younger digital competitors?• Nordstrom rejected its founding family’s latest takeover bid, valued at $8.4 billion. (NYT)• Continental Grain plans to raise its stake in Bunge and push the agriculture-commodity trader to sell itself, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• Elliott Management is building a stake in Telecom Italia to counter the company’s biggest investor, Vivendi, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• The F.T.C. sued to block J.M. Smucker’s acquisition of Wesson from ConAgra. (WSJ)• The European cardboard box maker Smurfit Kappa has rejected a takeover offer by International Paper. (FT)• U.K. lawmakers called on the British government to block Melrose’s hostile takeover bid for GKN. (FT)• The private equity owners of the baseball cards maker Topps are weighing a sale, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• How the $15.3 billion sale of XL Group to Axa of France got done. (Bloomberg)Grocery stores, online video and health care aren’t enough. The online giant is talking to big banks like JPMorgan Chase and Capital One Financial about creating checking accounts for customers, unnamed sources told the WSJ.What’s in it for Amazon: access to younger customers and those without bank accounts; lower fees to financial firms; and, of course, more customer data. (Amazon already runs a credit operation for customers in India, where it’s battling powerful local rivals.)AdvertisementWhat’s in it for the banks: keeping a rival close and being tied to a company that millennials love.The tech flyaround• Now its legal fight with Waymo is over, Uber wants to partner with its erstwhile foe once more, unnamed sources say. Pennsylvania’s attorney general sued Uber for violating the state’s data breach notification law. And Uber booked more than half the seats available for the London premiere of “Brilliant Jerks,” a play inspired by the company.• Glass Lewis recommended that Tesla shareholders reject a plan to award Elon Musk $2.6 billion in equity. (Bloomberg)• Austrian banks should treat virtual currency transactions as suspicious until shown otherwise, the country’s financial markets regulator says. (Bloomberg)• Meet Harmeet Dhillon, the lawyer trying to make Silicon Valley a safe space for conservatives. (Bloomberg)• The U.N. made Michael Bloomberg a special envoy for climate action. (NYT)• Disney named James Pitaro, the chairman of its consumer products and interactive division, as the next president of ESPN. (NYT)• Noah Beck, previously a partner at Schulte Roth & Zabel, has joined Weil, Gotshal & Manges as a partner in its tax practice. (Weil)• Kleiner Perkins has hired Ilya Fushman from Index Ventures as a general partner and managing member. (KPCB)Advertisement• Inge Thulin will step down as C.E.O. of 3M in the summer and become executive chairman. He will be replaced by the chief operating officer, Michael Roman. (WSJ)• Luc Jobin, the C.E.O. of Canadian National Railway, has left abruptly, leaving operational challenges. (WSJ)• Matthew Henick, the former head of BuzzFeed Studios, has joined Facebook as head of content planning and strategy. (TechCrunch)• Martin Shkreli’s assets (including that Wu-Tang Clan album) can be seized if he doesn’t come up with the $7.36 million he owes the government, a judge has ruled. (NYT)• Capitolis, which provides capital markets technology, has raised $29 million from investors like Index Ventures and Sequoia Capital. (Business Wire)• The head of Yale’s $27 billion endowment, David Swensen, has called the editor in chief of the student newspaper there a “coward” over its coverage of the fund and asked if she understood “simple English.” (Bloomberg)• More than half of C.I.O.s at the world’s top companies by revenue say they expect to leave within the next three years, according to a Korn Ferry International report. (WSJ)• Puerto Rico remains far from being back in business: Some parts of the island are still in the dark. (NYT)Advertisement• Meet the judge handling over 400 federal lawsuits against central figures in the national opioid tragedy, including makers, distributors and retailers of prescription painkillers. (NYT)• The proportion of women in senior roles at central banks fell last year, to 19 percent from 31 percent. (Bloomberg)• Diversity and inclusion were buzzwords at Davos, but not at the SuperReturn International conference in Berlin, where 13 percent of the speakers were women. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft’s new diversity chief has settled with IBM, which had sued her over a noncompete agreement, and will start in July. (Axios)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byIt’s a tense time for avatars of celebrity in the age of male failure.By Dayna EvansMadame Tussauds opened its New York City outpost at 42nd Street and Eighth Avenue after the pornography theaters were shut down but shortly before the Sept. 11 attacks. One of 24 Madame Tussauds branches around the world, it has an admission fee of $37 — $12 more than MoMA or the Met — that you can get down to $29 if you buy tickets online in advance. As emphasized by docents in the elevator ride to its top floor, it also has two bars. “Electric Lemonade” sells for $9.95 and margaritas for $10, and drinks can be carried throughout the attraction, unlike at some of those other expensive New York institutions.On a recent visit up there, a little kid was shoving his fingers up Lenny Kravitz’s nose. Two teenagers took a selfie with a replica of Johnny Depp that, perhaps deliberately, had seen better days. A family of three took turns getting selfies with Woody Allen. One older male visitor was posing next to Sofia Vergara, his arm hovering near her waist. Politely, he refrained from actually touching her. There are no rules for how visitors interact with the celebrity replicas at Tussauds. Even touching the figures’ hair, which studio artists in London painstakingly implant into heads strand by strand, is allowed. (The hair on President Trump’s head? A mix of human and yak. His eyebrows: squirrel.) “Who’s that?” one child asked his father, pointing at Bruce Willis.“You may be able to follow the celebrities and get up close with them on Instagram and stuff like that,” said Christine Haughney, the regional head of marketing for Merlin Entertainments, the parent company of Madame Tussauds. “But here, you can actually get your photo taken with them.” There are five floors at the attraction, but the most notable recent addition to the array of more than 150 figures is not the figure of Romeo Santos or the immersive “4D Marvel experience.” Instead, what was striking were the black-and-white Time’s Up pins fastened to the glittering ball gowns of A-list replicas like Susan Sarandon and Anne Hathaway, and to the more casual attire of — who knows why — Justin Timberlake and Ed Sheeran. Representing the recent movement by women in Hollywood to end harassment and inequality in all industries, the Time’s Up pins speak for wax figures who, one hopes, can’t actually speak for themselves. This slight costume change is the result of what Ms. Haughney said is the secret sauce fueling Tussauds’ 300-year survival. “We always keep our fingers on the pulse and make sure that we’re staying up-to-date,” she said. The Oscars are coming up? Actresses get Time’s Up pins. Donald Trump decides to forgo a visit to the United States embassy in London? His wildly lifelike figure is staged outside of the embassy for him. Pope Francis travels to the United States for the first time? Madame Tussauds parades his waxwork through the streets of New York in a veneer-white, top-down convertible. The former “Today” anchor Matt Lauer is accused of sexual harassment by multiple women? His wax figure is quietly removed from Madame Tussauds. “Just with the nature of the news, we did take him off the floor for the moment,” Ms. Haughney said, about Mr. Lauer’s representation. “But it’s still a figure that we have here, of course. We just don’t have him on the floor right now.” (“Luckily we have not had to remove any of our figures in Hollywood due to scandals,” Helen Larimore, the marketing manager for Madame Tussauds Hollywood, wrote in an email; Dustin Hoffman, Quentin Tarantino, Michael Jackson and Marlon Brando still happily hold court out west.)New York City-themed hallways lead into a “Ghostbusters” virtual reality experience that opened at the attraction in 2016, which is a little funny when you remember that New York is very much right outside. Above a plump wax figure of a city policeman, a backlit sign announces, “GOOD SERVICE” for all but two of 11 subway lines. It is one of the least realistic artifacts in the entire place, second only to the waxwork of Robert Pattinson, the “Twilight” actor, which looks more like Jean-Ralphio Saperstein from “Parks and Recreation.” A survivor of the French Revolution and a protégée of the physician and waxworks hobbyist Philippe Curtius, Marie Tussaud, born Anna Maria Grosholtz, brought a traveling roadshow of wax figures she had created through England between 1802 and 1835, after which she set up a permanent exhibition in London. (Notable characters including Benjamin Franklin and Voltaire sat for her back in the day.) When the museum burned down in 1925, firefighters saved the attraction’s on-site parrot, which, once revived, is said to have remarked to the crowd that had gathered, “This is a rotten business.” A waxwork of Sleeping Beauty first made in 1765 by Curtius, then recast from the original mold in 1989, was one of several bequeathed to Tussaud after Curtius’s death. It has left London for the first time to be exhibited beginning this month at the Met Breuer. Inside the waxwork is a steel mechanism, developed by Tussaud and her sons in the 1830s, that moves a breathing chest piece to give the appearance that the waxwork is actually breathing.Madame Tussauds thrived in London throughout the 20th century, featuring an occasionally rotating cast of wax figures, including the royal family (central and extended), as well as an extensive Chamber of Horrors, where Adolf Hitler and Joseph Goebbels were on display. Hitler’s waxwork, a short distance from Mahatma Gandhi, was doused in red paint in 1933 by three men and one woman, who also hung a sign from the figure that read, “HITLER the MASS MURDERER.” In 2008, at the just-opened Berlin outpost of Madame Tussauds, Hitler was beheaded by the second visitor to ever step foot in the museum. Controversy about identity and politics visits Tussauds regularly. Though the dawn of the selfie era proved to be a boon for the brand, social media has also introduced its share of problems. (“Social sharing” is encouraged by docents; the preferred hashtag is “#famousfun.”) Last year, a wax figure of Beyoncé was taken off the floor temporarily after an outcry that she had been whitewashed, in both the literal and figurative senses. “We did a couple small outfit changes and we were able to fix the lighting,” Ms. Haughney said of the incident. After unveiling the rapper Nicki Minaj’s wax figure in Las Vegas in 2015, in which she posed on her hands and knees in a revealing outfit, guests immediately began posing for obscene photographs with the waxwork, forcing Madame Tussauds to release a statement that confirmed it would bring in more security and redesign the set.Merlin Entertainments, which acquired the Tussauds brand in 2007 for $1.9 billion, reported lackluster attendance last summer to its attractions in Britain, which include the London Eye, after terrorist attacks in London. Earlier this month, the brand announced it had bounced back, reporting a 3.5 percent increase in global visitors to its 127 attractions worldwide. While Madame Tussauds New York and Madame Tussauds Hollywood declined to share daily attendance numbers, Ms. Larimore said that the Hollywood location, which is closed only one day each year, for Oscars Sunday, gets “hundreds of visitors daily.” (A competing, off-brand wax museum called “Hollywood Wax Museum” is only a few blocks down the street, and the admission is cheaper, though the Meryl Streep waxwork is far, far worse.)In a time where the public has a more complicated relationship with celebrity than ever, and more male stars are outed for their indiscretions, what does the future hold for a brand so dependent on famous people as Madame Tussauds? Vloggers, reality stars and even Grumpy Cat — whose figure is terrifyingly animatronic — have their own waxworks at the attractions now.“If there’s a massive celeb and it’s big news worldwide, that’s someone we’d probably need to look at and do,” Ms. Haughney said.Fame moves quickly and is never certain. Can the melted wax keep up? While Tussauds is the largest network of waxworks museums in the world, it hardly holds a monopoly: in Baltimore, there is the Great Blacks in Wax Museum; in Paris, Montreal, Prague and Seoul, the Musee Grevin; the Heroes of Baseball Wax Museum is in Cooperstown, N.Y. A handful of notable wax museums have closed in recent years — in Buena Park, Calif., the Movieland Wax Museum (which was previously the largest wax museum the United States) in 2005; Ontario’s Criminals Hall of Fame Wax Museum in 2014. Yet, Tussauds’ most recent attraction opened as recently as last year, in New Delhi. “Waxworks have this simultaneous lifelikeness and deathlikeness,” Michelle Bloom, a professor of comparative literature and French at University of California, Riverside and the author of “Waxworks: A Cultural Obsession” (2003), said in a phone interview. “But a wax figure can pass for a living person at the same time that it’s very corpse-like. I think we’re drawn to both, really.” In Dr. Bloom’s book, she explores the cultural phenomenon of waxworks through art, film and literature.“Their lifelikeness and yet — they’re not real! — means that we can do what we want with the figures,” she said. “A lot of Hollywood horror films and works of literature get to this perverseness. There is usually a male character who is enamored of or obsessed with the wax figure of a woman. It’s the ‘ideal woman’ who doesn’t talk and is literally malleable. He can control her. He can project his fantasy onto her.”For Barkha Maurya, who was in town from India visiting the New York attraction with her husband, it was the fact that “the sculptures felt completely alive. Sometimes, we were confused if it was an actual person or a wax sculpture.” Her favorite figure was The Incredible Hulk.That desire to trip down the uncanny valley has burgeoned an even stranger phenomenon in the era of the activist internet. Superfans of certain celebrities address petitions on sites like Change.org to Madame Tussauds, pleading for the institution to turn their favorite stars into inanimate blocks of carved wax. Given the limit of resources at Tussauds, not every plea is successful, but Ms. Haughney said that the attraction’s priority is “listening to the guests,” after all.In 2015, Jennifer Nieves published a petition on Change.org asking Tussauds in New York to introduce a wax figure for the Bronx-born bachata star Romeo Santos. “It is by request and high demand that Romeo Santos truly deserves this wax figure to honor his great success,” Ms. Nieves wrote. “From his beloved smile, dance moves, skills, and smooth voice that drives all his Romeistas crazy he truly deserves a place at the Madame Tussauds in New York City.” The petition received over 7,000 signatures (a small amount by Change.org standards), and plans were put in place to bring Mr. Santos’s likeness to Tussauds.“There were lots of tears,” Ms. Haughney said about the unveiling of Mr. Santos’s figure in July of last year. Ms. Nieves was invited to attend, and she met Mr. Santos and his wax replica, which is posed permanently with hands shaped into a heart. Another such petition, to reinstate Agatha Christie’s wax figure to the London Madame Tussauds, has been less successful. “We’re talking about the person who is still the best-selling author in the world, and whose books, nearly 40 years after her death, are still being made into popular movies,” said the petition’s author, Scott Wallace Baker, by phone from Australia. And who could forget “Wax Paul Now,” a viral campaign to bring Paul Giamatti’s likeness to the attraction? Not Madame Tussauds New York, which threw a Paul Giamatti-themed party on March 25 — and promised to cast him in wax if petitioners get 500,000 signatures.Ms. Haughney said that who gets into the attraction and who gets booted, who the guests prefer and who goes out of fashion, is determined only by visitors’ preferences. “The most important thing is that we know what our promise is to our brand, as well as to the celebrities,” she said, adding that Mother Teresa — “who was just so in demand with guests” — was one of a small number of luminaries to decline to be waxed. “We would never do anything to jeopardize that. We’re very apolitical.” Dr. Bloom was skeptical. “There are a lot of organizations that say they’re apolitical,” she said. “Depicting Beyoncé as whitewashed, that’s political. Where you choose to position a figure, or not including a figure, that’s all quite political.” It’s tradition at Madame Tussauds for sitting presidents to be featured — President Trump, who has himself been accused of sexual assault by multiple women — is protected behind red velvet rope, and by a Tussauds staff member. Visitors are permitted to be photographed with him only under a staff member’s supervision. “There’s an opportunity for visceral on-site interaction,” Ms. Bloom said, “whether you want it or not.”For the people who spent a Friday night in New York at a wax museum that provides a near uniform experience to two dozen other cities — like going to McDonald’s in Rome — it’s really not that serious.The experience at Tussauds, it turns out, is actually defined by the guests who visit it. The unhinged selfies posted to Instagram (#famousfun) that inspire one’s followers to do double-takes — Wait, did Lauren meet Jon Hamm and not freaking tell me??? The act of reveling in or revolting against the absence of Mr. Giamatti or the inclusion of Mr. Allen. The fact that it’s the one place where the public has an automatic upper hand — whether appropriate or not — over the rich and famous. One day at Madame Tussauds Hollywood in mid-February, a group of friends scripted, staged and filmed a skit that ended in an extended grinding session with Betty White. A wax museum without people is ultimately much weirder and less fun to imagine than a wax museum crowded with them. On the way out of the Times Square attraction, into the cold, real-life version of New York that these tourists had, maybe, come to see, I asked Sherene Church, who was in town with her sister from Atlanta, if she felt that her visit represented a classically New York experience. “Oh, absolutely,” she said. “Everything about it was good.” A family of New Yorkers who had a mother visiting from Mexico were a little more reticent. A wriggling toddler sat on her father’s shoulders, telegraphing that she was more than ready to get back out onto the city streets.Her mother, whose favorite figure that evening had been Michael Jackson, confirmed her daughter’s eagerness to leave. Did the little one have a figure she liked most? “Oh, no,” her mother said. “She’s afraid of all of them.” AdvertisementBy CORAL DAVENPORTMARCH 1, 2018
Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can sign up here to receive Climate Fwd:, our new email newsletter.This week in the statehouse in Olympia, Wash., Gov. Jay Inslee fought but failed to bring a vote on a historic climate change policy that he has pursued for years: instituting the nation’s first tax on planet-warming carbon dioxide pollution.The fate of the Senate vote, which was canceled on Thursday after it became clear that it could not gain enough support even in the Democratic-majority legislature of this West Coast state, was being watched closely around the country and the world. But for Mr. Inslee the loss of this week’s carbon-tax battle was just one step in a war to keep pushing his carbon plan, either as a ballot initiative this year — or possibly as part of a platform in a 2020 challenge against President Trump for the presidency.In an interview, Governor Inslee declined to say whether he intends to run for president, but his name is increasingly appearing on lists of possible Democratic contenders.AdvertisementAdvocates and opponents of climate change action are paying close attention to Mr. Inslee’s next steps. Economists broadly agree that taxing the carbon pollution produced by burning fossil fuels is the most efficient way to fight climate change. But politicians agree that it is also a nearly surefire way to get voted out of office.AdvertisementAfter all, a carbon tax is, by design, an energy tax. Among other things it would most likely raise the prices that voters pay for gasoline and electricity, which is why the idea has long been seen as politically toxic.Sign up for our newsletter to get our latest stories about climate change — along with answers to your questions and tips on how to help.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the days before the vote, Governor Inslee said he would like to change that perception. “We are not afraid of being a vanguard,” he said in an interview in Washington, D.C. “We invented commercial jet airliners and the best software in the world,” he said, referring to Boeing and Microsoft, two global companies that rose up in his state. “In this case, we’re developing a new policy system, and we hope it would be followed.”If he does run for president, Governor Inslee is expected to make climate change central to his platform. Governor Inslee, who has spent the past decade of his political career focusing on climate change, earning the sobriquet “greenest governor in America,” sees the issue as a way to directly attack Mr. Trump, who has mocked established climate science, rolled back environmental regulations and promised to withdraw the United States from the landmark Paris climate accord.This past Sunday, Governor Inslee said, he made his views clear at a governors’ breakfast with Scott Pruitt, the head of Mr. Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency and the president’s point man in undoing climate change rules. “I told him, you’re killing my state,” Governor Inslee said of his conversation with Mr. Pruitt. “My state is going up in smoke because our forests are involved in these catastrophic fires.” He added, “I told him, this administration is not just irresponsible but morally reprehensible.”An E.P.A. official didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment from Mr. Pruitt.The global interest in Governor Inslee’s carbon tax push comes as several state leaders are signaling to the world that they intend to act on climate change with or without the Trump administration. More significantly, the state has drawn attention as a major global economy that is willing to buck conventional wisdom by taking on a carbon tax at all.“This is very significant. Washington is not just any state, it’s home to so many global companies: Starbucks, Microsoft, Amazon,” said Erik Solheim, the head of the United Nations Environment Program, speaking by phone from New Delhi, India. “It is part of the signal to the world that the major states, big business are in disagreement with the U.S. withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement, and they are doing something about it.”Opponents of climate change policy, including the fossil fuel industry and allies of the Trump administration, also see the potential for a Washington carbon tax as seminal. “If it works in the state of Washington, it’s going to be tried in 10 states next year and 35 states the year after that,” said Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist and political strategist who advised Mr. Trump’s campaign and transition. “If Inslee’s successful, it will be a game-changer. Everyone will take it and copy it and be off and running.”AdvertisementAlready, carbon tax bills have been introduced in the legislatures of Utah, Maryland, New York, Hawaii, Rhode Island, Vermont, Maine and Washington, D.C.Mr. McKenna said that he expects an effort to revive the carbon tax in a November ballot initiative vote to ignite a major campaign both for and against the effort.Mr. McKenna is one of many analysts and strategists who see Governor Inslee’s push to pass a carbon tax in his home state as his first step toward a national campaign. “This is not just about the state of Washington. This is about Jay positioning himself is a national leader on climate change,” Mr. McKenna said. “He is testing out themes and strategies.”Even if Governor Inslee’s tax push makes him a hero in the eyes of environmental advocates around the world, Republicans see it as a political liability, and are preparing to attack him on it.“I’m a big fan of having votes on carbon taxes,” said Thomas J. Pyle, president of the Institute for Energy Research, a think tank that supports fossil fuels and supplied the Trump administration with its energy policy blueprint, including rolling back climate change regulations and expanding coal and oil exploration. He recounted the history of politicians losing their jobs as a result of backing a price on carbon pollution.There was Al Gore in 1993 when, as vice president, he urged Congress to pass an energy bill that would have taxed the heat content of burning fossil fuels. After Democrats pushed the bill through the House, Republicans attacked them for backing an energy tax, and the vote was seen as a key reason that Democrats lost control of the House in 1996.The pattern was repeated in 2009, when President Barack Obama tried to push Congress to pass a so-called cap-and-trade bill, which would have required carbon polluters to pay for permits to pollute. The bill passed in the House but cost coal-state Democrats their seats.Carbon taxes have helped fell politicians around the world. In 2012, Prime Minister Julia Gillard of Australia successfully pushed to pass a carbon tax. The following year, she was ousted from office in a campaign that was partly seen as a referendum on the tax.
                We know. Global warming is daunting. So here’s a place to start: 17 often-asked questions with some straightforward answers.            Although Hillary Clinton campaigned in 2016 on a pledge to tackle climate change, she stopped short of endorsing a carbon tax. “Even Obama recognized, even Hillary Clinton recognized, that a carbon tax is politically toxic,” Mr. Pyle said. Governor Inslee, he said, is “going to find out real quickly that it doesn’t play in Peoria.”AdvertisementEven some people who have voted for Governor Inslee express concern about how a carbon tax might be used against him in the hardball of a national political campaign. “I would like to see him run,” said Dan Rystrom, 56, a retired investor from a suburb of Seattle who identified himself as a Democrat. “But I think it would be the end of him,” he said, describing the political ads he expected to see across the country, saying: “Who is this man from the West Coast who just raised the prices of gasoline?”Still, there are signs that other politicians might be willing to take the carbon tax plunge. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is pushing to implement a national carbon tax by the end of the year. And while Washington would be the first state in the nation with a straight carbon tax, it is not the first to force polluters to pay for emitting carbon dioxide: As governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a cap-and-trade law in 2006.Many environmental economists say that in order for a carbon tax to significantly cut planet-warming pollution, it should be set at a rate of $30 to $50 per ton of pollution. The proposed Washington state tax is $12 a ton, although it would increase at $2 per year until it reaches $30.The tax is also likely to have a smaller impact on Washington’s economy than it might in other states, because of its unique energy mix. The state gets most of its electricity from carbon-free hydropower, rather than coal.In the interview, Governor Inslee said that whoever ultimately runs against Mr. Trump in 2020 on the Democrat side should put climate change front and center in his or her campaign. The politics of global warming are changing, he said, as more Americans experiencing economically damaging weather events that scientists can attribute to the changing climate.“Climate change used to be an abstraction. It used to be a graph,” he said. “Now we’re seeing biblical events play out on the 6 o’clock evening news.”“I believe it is a successful and winning issue,” Governor Inslee said.An earlier version of this article misstated the origins of Microsoft. The company was started in New Mexico, not Washington. It later moved to Washington.Kirk Johnson in Seattle contributed to this report.Follow @NYTClimate on TwitterA version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2018, on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: With Carbon Tax, Washington Governor Gambles on a ‘Politically Toxic’ Issue.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byExplorerOn a father-daughter trip to see primates in Volcanoes National Park in Rwanda (strenuous hike required), it’s all about connection.By Shivani VoraEight of us, including my dad, clung to tangled vines to steady ourselves against the slippery undergrowth along a slope in Rwanda’s Volcanoes National Park. We were there to spot gorillas, and the forest was eerily quiet while we waited. Roger Amani, one of our guides, looked at us with a finger to his lips, reminding us that we couldn’t make a sound. If we did, we might scare the primates away.We scanned the thick vegetation of African redwood trees. We knew from our trackers that the family we had hiked three hours to see, the Agashyas, were in the vicinity.One of my fellow hikers, an older gentleman from Boston, looked at me and whispered, “You know that movie ‘Gorillas in the Mist’? I feel like we’re living it.” A few minutes later, there he was: the silverback Agashya, the head of the family, sleeping underneath a redwood and surrounded by a half-dozen gorillas. I grabbed my dad’s hand and squeezed it so hard that his skin turned deep red.This moment was why I had come to Rwanda.Rwanda was a father-daughter trip, the first my dad, Vikesh, and I had taken together. I had long wanted to track mountain gorillas, a critically endangered species that lives only in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Uganda and Rwanda, and my sights were set on Rwanda.My interest was driven by the country’s recent news about gorilla tourism: Last May the Rwanda Development Board, a government agency, doubled the price of a daily gorilla tracking permit to $1,500 to generate more revenue for gorilla conservation. The increase received international attention.A month later, Wilderness Safaris opened Bisate Lodge, a six-room sustainable property next to Volcanoes National Park. The lodge is the first luxury property in the heart of the gorilla-trekking area and the first in a line of high-end accommodations coming to the region — One & Only is scheduled to open a property in 2018 while the upscale safari brand Singita has one in the works for 2019.Dr. Dian Fossey, the American who spent close to 20 years studying Rwanda’s gorillas, was a motivation, too. She was murdered in 1985 — her death remains unsolved (“Gorillas in the Mist” is about her life). Dr. Fossey’s namesake nonprofit operates the Karisoke Research Center, dedicated to gorilla conservation and research (the exhibit there that details her work is worth a visit), and in 2017, the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund International celebrated its 50th anniversary.With so much happening in Rwanda around the gorillas, how could I not go? I wanted a companion for the trip and, much to my surprise, my dad, a retired human resources consultant, volunteered. We weren’t especially close. In following the traditional way of fatherhood in India, where I lived as a child, he had taken a hands-off approach to my upbringing. And yet, here I was, at 39, off with him for a week to the country Rwandans call “a land of a thousand hills.” Most trips to Rwanda begin in Kigali, the country’s capital. We spent two nights there seeing sights like the Kigali Genocide Memorial Center and the NIYO Art Gallery, which shows works by contemporary Rwandan artists. Midmorning on our third day, our driver, Amos Tega, drove us two hours northwest toward Volcanoes National Park, home to five of the eight volcanoes in the thickly forested Virunga Mountains — Karisimbi, Bisoke, Muhabura, Gahinga and Sabyinyo.Our plan was to spend two nights at Bisate Lodge followed by two more at Virunga Lodge, a 10-room property that opened in 2004.Bisate was spectacular. Built near an eroded volcanic cone, the lodge has dramatic views of the park’s volcanoes and is surrounded by a village with the same name. Wilderness Safaris is reforesting the 103-acre concession in which the property is situated and hopes to plant 10,000 trees a year for the next several years. Guests can get involved — Bisate’s agronomist, Jean-Moise, who is in charge of the reforestation effort, helps them plant a sapling of an indigenous tree such as the African redwood. (Those who participate get the GPS coordinates of their tree so that they can track it from home.)That afternoon, we went on an hourlong walk through the property’s nature trail, where we spotted at least six species of birds, including the yellow-bellied waxbill and the olive woodpecker. The terrain was relatively flat, and we chatted as we strolled. I was going through a rough patch at home, and it was a relief to be away from the stress. I shared this thought with Dad, and he replied that he understood. “We all need a break from our lives,” he said. Such open conversation might be the norm between many fathers and daughters, but for my dad and I, it was a first. In the evening, we had pre-dinner drinks by the fireside and then it was onto a delicious dinner. Our server presented us with different menus, each customized for our dietary restrictions — I have celiac disease so anything with gluten is off limits, and Dad is allergic to dairy. The care the staff took with our meals was remarkable. I ate a simple mixed salad composed of leaves grown in the property’s gardens, beef kebabs and local roasted sweet potatoes, and meringues and creamy milk chocolate from a chocolatier in the nearby city of Musanze. Dad had a dairy-free risotto, roasted chicken, dairy-free vanilla ice cream and spongecake. Bisate’s rates include all meals and drinks so we could eat and imbibe as much as we wanted.That night, we slept in twin beds, but before drifting off, we discussed our excitement about the day to come. Dad said that he was looking forward to the day, but confessed that he was slightly nervous. “What if I won’t be able to keep up with the trek?” he asked. He was 65 and exercises regularly. I wasn’t worried.We awoke at 5:30 a.m. and ate a hearty breakfast before heading to Volcanoes National Park headquarters to make the 7 a.m. gorilla-tracking meeting time. The 40,000-acre national park, established in 1925, is Africa’s oldest. Prosper Uwingeli, the chief park warden, told me that it is home to 305 mountain gorillas; there are around 880 of these primates left in the world today — the rest live in parks in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo.In Rwanda, the $1,500 permit per person to track gorillas allows for an hour’s interaction with the animals. These permits should be purchased well in advance — 96 are available each day, and they sell out, particularly during peak season from June through September.Mr. Uwingeli said that hikers are permitted to track 12 of the 20 gorilla families that inhabit Volcanoes; hikers are divided into groups, limited to eight people, and each group tracks one family. The families live in different areas, and the hikes range from two to eight hours. Hiking groups are classified as easy, medium and difficult, and Mr. Uwingeli told me we could request the level. Always game for a workout, I was keen on a difficult hike. Dad asked for the easy one. We compromised with medium.At the park headquarters, we met our guides, Mr. Amani and Oliver Mutuyimana, and the six other hikers in our group. Mr. Mutuyimana said that we would be tracking the Agashya family, which lives between Mount Sabyinyo and Mount Gahinga. “The family has more than two dozen members, making it one of the largest in the park,” he said. He explained that the clan was initially led by a silverback called Nyakarima and had 13 members, but that Agashya had challenged and deposed him in 2003.Once we were informed of gorilla don’ts — not touching them or making eye contact was especially important — it was time to go. Our warm-up was a 30-minute walk through flat maize fields to the park’s entrance. From there, we were in the wild. I have hiked all over the world, but this was different because there were no paved trails. All we could see was dense forest, and at many points, Mr. Amani and Mr. Mutuyimana used machetes to clear a semblance of a path. The vegetation zones in Volcanoes change depending on the altitude, and the varying topography — an intermingling of lush green, massive redwoods, slender mountain bamboo trees, red mud underfoot and streams — made the hike all the more scenic.We followed our guides through the bamboo trees that grow at the park’s lowest and highest elevations. A tracker with a rifle — in case we encountered forest buffalo or other dangerous wildlife — walked ahead.It was November, Rwanda’s rainy season, and the ground was muddy. We climbed over uneven rocks, looking for secure spots to place our feet; at an elevation of around 9,000 feet, we hit a vegetation zone replete with African redwoods — glorious with their twisted trunks and emerald green, feathery leaves. Some of our fellow hikers were out of breath from the exercise and ever thinner air, but we were holding up.An hour later, Mr. Mutuyimana received a message on his radio from another tracker that the Agashyas were about 20 minutes away. We scrambled over stinging nettle plants that poked through our clothing, and clutched tree trunks to keep going forward. A few times, Dad and I supported each other by holding hands. And then we saw Agashya sleeping, encircled by some members of his clan.Up a slight slope, we could see two gorillas poking their heads above the nettles. “The gorillas won’t move until Agashya wakes up,” Mr. Amani said. “We have to wait.” Ten minutes later, Agashya arose, and we took in his enormity — Mr. Uwingeli said that like most silverbacks, he was around six feet tall and weighed between 400 and 500 pounds. I was struck by his face: humanlike, kind. In that moment, I understood what Dr. Fossey meant when she spoke about her first encounter with gorillas: “Immediately I was struck by the physical magnificence of the huge jet-lack bodies blended against the green palette wash of the thick forest foliage.”Our group followed Agashya up a slope to a flat area. Here, just 20 feet from us, two groups of females playfully hit each other, grunting. Two young ones rolled on the forest’s floor. Above, another baby swung from a bamboo tree, and several others stomped over scattered leaves, softly hooting. They were a spirited, tight-knit bunch, and I was again reminded of Dr. Fossey, who said, “You take these fine, regal animals. How many fathers have the same sense of paternity? How many human mothers are more caring? The family structure is unbelievably strong.”I alternated between observing in awe and desperately trying to take pictures on my phone. At one point, a young gorilla got so close that he brushed against my father’s leg. And then Agashya, who Mr. Amani had said likes to exert his power, pounded his chest again and again. I felt no fear. Triggered by a deep recognition of our proximity on the evolutionary tree, I simply felt warmth and affection.By the time we walked back through the forest, five hours had passed; scrapes from the nettles and a few bruises from a minor fall or two were evidence of the adventure.The pampering in store for us at Bisate was a welcome way to end the day: massages and a meal of vegetable tarts, fried lake tilapia fillets and chocolate mousse cake, all dairy- and gluten-free. And there was free-flowing wine and scotch. “I think, Dad,” I said, as we unwound over our drinks, “today is going to be one of those days that we look back on and can’t believe that we actually lived.” We continued to talk about the paths our lives had taken. He shared some regrets and a few of the lessons he had learned along the way. I was certain that we had talked more these past few days than we had over the course of my lifetime.Itineraries to Rwanda tend to include only a two-night stay in the Volcanoes National Park region. Travelers do one gorilla trek and leave. But there is plenty more to appreciate.Dad and I moved on to Virunga Lodge, where we would spend another two nights. I had met Virunga’s owner, Praveen Moman, a few months earlier, when he visited New York, and he had said that a walk to Sunzu village from the lodge to watch Rwandese women cook traditional food like beef stew with steamed cassava was a must. We were also keen on doing the steep two-hour climb to Dr. Fossey’s tomb in Volcanoes National Park, next to the original Karisoke Research Center.But then I was hit with a stomach virus that left me nearly incapacitated. After I found myself on the stone bathroom floor, I called out to my father, who rushed in and carried me to bed. (We would both laugh a few days later when he remarked that he hadn’t picked me up me since I was a young child.)We did not make it to the village or the tomb, but with antibiotics I was soon well enough to make our trek to see the park’s golden monkeys. They’re also an endangered species, and while around 22,000 people a year track the gorillas, Mr. Uwingeli said that just 5,000 track the monkeys. A permit costs $100, and the hike, limited to the low-lying bamboo forest, doesn’t require the stamina of a gorilla trek.Travelers shouldn’t miss the chance to see the photogenic apes with their round faces, long tails and thick, reddish-gold furs. Three families, with a total of around 80 monkeys, live in the forest. Although the groups to find them can reach up to 20 people, we had just six others in ours.We spotted our family a half-hour into our fast-paced walk. Although there was no restriction on how close we could get to the primates, they wouldn’t stay still. They jumped from tree to tree and swung on branches. Occasionally, we were lucky enough to glimpse their faces. We didn’t have to cling to vines to see them, and it wasn’t as dramatic as our encounter with Agashya. But it was a delightful coda.It’s advisable to book a trip to the Volcanoes National Park area through a tour operator that specializes in Rwanda. An operator can arrange accommodations, tours and transfers and secure permits to track gorillas and golden monkeys. We used Travel Beyond, based in Wayzata, Minn., and our agent was Jenny Mikkelson, who is an expert on Africa, including Rwanda. jennym@travelbeyond.com or 800-823-6063.Travelers can also apply for gorilla and golden monkey permits through the RwandaDevelopment Board by emailing reservation@rwandatourism.com. Gorilla permits cost $1,500 a day; golden monkey permits are $100 a day.Where to StayBisate Lodge Located a 30-minute drive from Volcanoes National Park headquarters, the meeting point for all park activities, including gorilla hikes, this sustainable property has six rooms. A stay can only be booked through a tour operator or travel agent. Nightly rates begin at $2,300 for two people, inclusive of meals, alcohol and several activities like bird-watching walks.Virunga Lodge A 45-minute drive from Volcanoes National Park headquarters, this 10-room property is built on a ridge and has spectacular views of the Virunga volcanoes. Nightly rates begin at $1,000 for two people, inclusive of meals, alcohol and several activities, such as a guided visit to the local village. Book by emailing virunga@volcanoessafaris.com. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Frank BruniDonald Trump has a boatload of problems. Ann Coulter, the author of a 2016 book titled “In Trump We Trust,” is now one of them.A week ago, when he signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill with nothing for his promised border wall, her frustrations with him, expressed frequently in her syndicated columns, turned into fury. “Congratulations, President Schumer!” she tweeted to more than 1.9 million followers. She also fantasized on Twitter about his impeachment.During an appearance at Columbia University on Tuesday night, she referred to him as a “shallow, lazy ignoramus.” And during a long conversation with me at The Times on Thursday afternoon, she sent him a warning about the wrath he’d face if the wall doesn’t rise: “The Former Trumpers should keep Donald Trump awake at night.”Coulter isn’t just any Trump critic. She was one of his earliest, most prominent — and fiercest — advocates. He came down that escalator and ranted about Mexican rapists and she swooned. Understandably: His diatribes against immigrants were cribbed from her 2015 best seller, “¡Adios, America!: The Left’s Plan to Turn Our Country into a Third World Hellhole.” It was published around the time of his campaign announcement. She had sent him an advance copy.“Perhaps no single writer has had such an immediate impact on a presidential election since Harriet Beecher Stowe,” David Frum, a former speechwriter for President George W. Bush, later observed in The Atlantic.So Coulter was Trump’s muse. She was also his oracle, predicting his nomination and election back when most others still dismissed him as a joke. And she’s a barometer of, and tribune for, some of his core supporters, including her good friend Matt Drudge.It’s for that reason that I pressed her to visit The Times. We spoke for about an hour. We could have clashed over an array of issues and recent statements of hers. But the agenda was her relationship with Trump and his political bind: He is pleasing neither her nor swing voters in the suburbs. That has implications not just for 2020 but also for the November midterms.Her agreement to talk hinged in part on our history. I have been discussing politics with her for almost two decades. I remember vividly a dinner in early 2016 when she laid out for me how Trump would prevail. She mentioned Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania. I thought she was delusional. Then came Nov. 8.What follows is a condensed and edited transcript of our conversation.Frank Bruni: Over the last few days you have become one of Trump’s fiercest critics. What happened?Ann Coulter: What was great about him being a coarse vulgarian was that he didn’t care about the opinions of Manhattan sophisticates, so when they come to him and say, “Oh, no, you can’t say you want to build a wall, that’s such a gauche opinion, that’s held by the people in the outer boroughs.” Anyone else would say, “Oh, no, I’m sorry, was anyone watching? Oh, I didn’t mean Mexicans are sending their rapists. I meant they’re sending their Nobel Prize winners. They’re sending their absolute best here. That’s what I meant.” That’s what any other Republican would have done — instantly gone cowering. He never did that.But something switched Nov. 8. Suddenly it was: “Please like me, Goldman Sachs.”Bruni: The $1.3 trillion spending bill that he signed last week sent you over the edge.Coulter: Yes. This is a different category you’re seeing now: Former Trumpers. That should be terrifying to the president. Maybe he’ll actually keep his promises. Unlike Marco Rubio. Unlike the rest of them. Unlike Mitch McConnell. We have been betrayed over and over and over with presidents promising to do something about immigration. If he played us for suckers, oh, you will not see rage like you have seen.Immigration should be a bipartisan issue. I wish Trump would give something like a fireside chat. That’s what he should have done the day of his inauguration: Sit in the Oval Office and say, perfectly somberly and kindly: “I said some wild things during the campaign, it sounds like it’s divisive and angry, but now we need to bring the country together. We can disagree on other things, but one thing that ought to unite us is that we want to protect the people already here.” It’s a perfectly bipartisan issue.Bruni: I don’t want to debate immigration policy.Coulter: But that is the issue of the Former Trumpers. We are voting on the issues, not the man, and I think that is how you get away from tribal politics.Bruni: When you say you don’t care about the man, I immediately flashed on Stormy Daniels. You had a tweet just the other day in which you said: “Stormy says she and Trump had sex only once. I guess if you want the guy to screw you repeatedly you have to be one of his voters.” Does the Stormy Daniels story — does his behavior — bother you?Coulter: The fact that he’s totally walked away from his central campaign promises does change your opinion of things like that and how you evaluate them. I said throughout the campaign, “This is a one-time pass for a two-time divorcé.”Bruni: You came to prominence going after Bill Clinton for behavior like Trump’s, right?Coulter: No, that was quite different. That’s perjury and obstruction. You can’t have a legal system if people can just take an oath and just lie. It wasn’t just the philandering.In general, my sense of all of the claims about Trump and the women and the sexual misbehavior is that it is not true. I actually think he probably is a gentleman and is home at night at 9 p.m. sitting in bed eating cheeseburgers.Bruni: So many women have come forward and said he made advances that were unwanted.Coulter: That was very close to the election and they had many years to do that.Bruni: So you don’t believe them?Coulter: I tend to discount almost all of them. The Stormy Daniels case, you can go either way.Bruni: One more Stormy thing, another tweet of yours, you must have been watching the interview, and you picked out the quote, “You remind me of my daughter.” Please expand on why you tweeted that.Coulter: I was watching it live. I was in the gym so I could watch the basketball games. And I emailed it to about 100 of my friends before tweeting it, thinking, “Don’t tweet it, don’t tweet it.” And I just said, “Screw it, I’ve got to tweet it.” It’s just creepy.Bruni: He didn’t get the money for the wall. Tell me quickly what else is wrong with that spending bill.Coulter: I don’t know what more horrible thing you could come up with than violating your central campaign promise that became the chant and the theme of the campaign that he promised at every single rally. I mean, implementing the principles of “The Communist Manifesto” wouldn’t be more of a betrayal than that. It’s totally secondary to me, but it’s kind of hilarious that more money is being given to the Department of Health and Human Services than Barack Obama even requested in his budget.Bruni: I don’t think people understand what an intellectual godparent of Trumpism you are. Tell us about the beginning of Ann Coulter and Donald Trump.Coulter: This is a much happier part of the interview. First of all, much like trade, immigration wasn’t an issue that Trump just latched onto. Back in 2013, when Rubio was pushing his total-betrayal amnesty bill, Trump was tweeting like mad and I was re-tweeting him — and put the tweets in columns — saying: “G.O.P., what are you doing, this is going to destroy the country. You don’t know who you are amnestying. You don’t know how many there are.” He had great tweets on the issue.“¡Adios, America!” came out two weeks before Trump came down the escalator. The book hadn’t even come out yet and I get an email from one of Trump’s people saying, “Mr. Trump would like a copy of your book.” I Fedexed it to his office. I have avoided seeking or requesting credit on this. His instincts were very good. I think he should take credit. His instincts are amazing.Bruni: At an Iowa campaign rally for Trump in August 2015, you said, “Since Donald Trump has announced that he is running for president, I felt like I’m dreaming.” Why?Coulter: Every day, you’d wake up and they’d be arguing about anchor babies and sanctuary cities. We never saw that before, not on Fox, not on MSNBC. You never saw people talking about it.Bruni: You have a strange dreamscape. My dreams don’t include anchor babies, but that’s just me. You’ve told me before that Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were nowhere to be found until Trump’s poll numbers rose. That’s your prompt to talk about two of your least favorite people in the administration.Coulter: They’re lovely people but, boy, I think Trump voters can say this was a bait-and-switch. There was no intimation during that 18 months of the most magnificent campaign I’ve ever seen that, “Don’t worry, I won’t go to the White House without Jared and Ivanka and I’ll be setting policy to make sure they lose no friends in the Hamptons.” I always suspected they were back in New York denying they were related to him.I’ve met Jared. He’s very nice. But if a relative of mine suddenly bought Ivanka’s fashion company, I wouldn’t demand to be the one put in charge of designing the clothes and figuring out if they are going to be made in Macau or India. Not my area of expertise.Bruni: So the two of them have no business being in the advisory roles, and in the proximity to him that they are.Coulter: Yeah. And I’m not telling tales out of school: As was accurately reported in Michael Wolff’s book, “Fire and Fury,” I’ve told the president this and I’ve tried to get everyone else around him to tell him this.There were all these rumors about how he was bringing his kids. They were there during the transition. Wait a second. A, they know nothing about politics. B, as far as we know, to this moment, they’ve been liberal Democrats. They’re very nice people but Bobby Kennedy was a nice person — and he knew a little bit more about politics — and when J.F.K. made Bobby his attorney general, the press pulled its nose out of J.F.K.’s butt just long enough to criticize him for that. We don’t like nepotism. We’re Americans. This is third-world behavior. Which is what I told the president.Bruni: You told him this directly?Coulter: I’ve leaked nothing from my conversations, interactions, ever. This one was leaked by someone else, and since there was only one other person on that phone call …. It was me and the president and this was during the transition.Bruni: And he said what in response?Coulter: First of all, I had tried to get this to him through, I think, Corey Lewandowski. Definitely Steve Bannon. Stephen Miller. Peter Thiel. I said, “You’ve got to tell him you can’t hire your kids.” And every one of them said, “That’s above my pay grade.” So when I talked to him, I said, “Apparently no one else will tell you this, but you can’t hire your kids.” And I went on quite a bit longer than that, that he was looking like Evita Perón.He does listen, contrary to what people say. He said, “You’re right, nobody else would tell me that.” So at the Wolff book party — and I didn’t leak anything to him — I said to Wolff, “I didn’t tell you anything, how did you know I had told him this? It had to be the president or someone the president told.” And he said: “Oh, yeah, it was the president. He was storming around the Oval Office, saying, ‘And then Ann Coulter told me ….’” So, yeah, he listens.Bruni: You implied that Trump was governing so that Jared and Ivanka wouldn’t lose their friends in the Hamptons. But he went for the Muslim ban. He backed out of the Paris climate accord.Coulter: That was in the first week. But from mostly, probably, the reporting of Maggie Haberman — she does seem to have an excellent pipeline to the Oval Office — it was Jared’s idea to fire James Comey. It was Jared’s idea to hire Anthony Scaramucci. At any point, does it dawn on someone, “Every time I take this guy’s advice, disaster ensues?” It doesn’t seem to be hitting home. Why? Because it’s a relative.Bruni: One of the things that most stunned me as his administration came together was he spent so much time during the campaign railing against Wall Street, fashioning himself as a populist. This was the richest cabinet, I think, in history.Coulter: I was terrified and I told them so. Is Trump the only person who didn’t know that generals are so P.C.? They are suck-ups. He’s not getting Patton. He’s getting Chihuahuas. He used to say, “I want General Patton.” Well, it’s not Patton anymore.Bruni: One month into Donald Trump’s presidency, you said, “So far, I give him an A-plus.”Coulter: Oh, I liked his tweets.Bruni: You were giving Donald Trump an A-plus on his presidency because you liked his tweets?Coulter: I think so.Bruni: By then he had hired a cabinet that you found abhorrent. By then he had brought Jared and Ivanka to Washington. But he’s still getting an A-plus? Even Harvard doesn’t have grade inflation like that.Coulter: I believe my columns gave more thoughtful reviews. I think I was being a little ironic and cheerleading there because I was obviously attacking him immediately in the columns.Bruni: What’s his grade today?Coulter: We’re halfway through the semester and he’s failing. He could still get ahead. There’s still a shot for extra credit.Bruni: Let me guess: It involves a wall.Coulter: There is one thing he promised every single day for 18 months. Don’t act like I’m the nut wanting a wall. That was the chant at every rally. I didn’t make this up.Bruni: But let’s be adults here. Was Mexico ever going to pay for it?Coulter: No. 1, his voters absolutely do not care.Bruni: He promised that as often as he promised the wall.Coulter: I know, but it was like me giving him an A-plus. It was just a fun chant. I promise you: We want a wall, we don’t care who pays for it. But it’s very easy: In 10 years, if we just stopped giving Mexico foreign aid, we’d pay for it.Bruni: Are you a Former Trumper?Coulter: He can still come back. If he builds the wall, he’ll be the Emperor God again. I’ll throw a huge party. I’ll start a committee to put him on Mount Rushmore. But right now, if I were a betting woman, I don’t think we’re getting a wall.Bruni: What the hell does Donald Trump believe in? What is his compass? I used to think it was applause, but now I think it’s incoherence. You’re the scholar of Donald Trump. Tell me what he believes in.Coulter: I really think in his heart of hearts he does believe in the #MAGA agenda. I think his Achilles’ heel is that he wants to be liked. For 18 months he didn’t want to be liked by cafe society, but starting Nov. 8, he just wants applause from The New York Times. It’s very odd how he’s always running to New York Times reporters and writers and not particularly giving interviews to the people, the broadcasters and the radio hosts, who supported him. Why is he calling it fake news when it’s all he wants to be on?Bruni: You told me he was going to prevail in the primaries and the general election. Look into the future now. When and how does this presidency end?Coulter: I really don’t know. He still could come back. He can build the wall. He’s commander in chief. Will he do it? I wouldn’t bet on it right now.Bruni: Will he be impeached?Coulter: That I don’t know. Things aren’t looking good for holding the House.Bruni: Will Republicans hold either the House or Senate?Coulter: Senate math suggests Republicans hold the Senate. If it is a blue wave, the Democrats take the House. I think they might not impeach him. They may think they can get more from this guy than they would under Hillary Clinton.Bruni: They may think he’s better taken advantage of than impeached?Coulter: Yeah. If they impeach him, I think Republicans might want to get rid of him. I think they might rather deal with Mike Pence and not have to be constantly asked by reporters about this and that tweet.Bruni: Does Trump have anywhere, politically, to go? Look at his loss of the popular vote. We’re talking about 77,000 votes in three states. I could argue it’s a fluke he was elected. If he pleases those who elected him, I’m not sure that he gets re-elected, but if he moves as far away from you as you say he has, I still don’t think he can get the people in the middle. Does he really have a political path to survival?Coulter: That’s a really good point. The hate for him on the left is visceral. Graydon Carter is never going to say, “Well, I have to admit he’s done something right.” The only way he has to go is to go back to the #MAGA agenda.Bruni: But I don’t think that’s enough either.Coulter: I disagree. I think it would be. A, it’s his only chance, although it may not help Jared and Ivanka be popular in the Hamptons. B, I think he can win independents over. He has not been a fascist. When a court unconstitutionally says he can’t ban immigrants on the basis of national security or what’s good for the country, he complies.Bruni: We have heard and we have written endlessly about Never Trumpers. What are Former Trumpers? If he loses you Former Trumpers permanently, what’s he left with?Coulter: This is not Never Trumpers. It was very easy to brush aside Jeb Exclamation Point. Charlie Sykes. Bill Kristol. The Former Trumpers are the ones who would die for Trump, who would defend him from anything, who did defend him and blew off the “Access Hollywood” tape — blew off everything. We kept coming back. He could sell Ivanka Trump merchandise from the Oval Office if he would just build the wall.If he doesn’t have us anymore — that’s what he should be worried about, because, you play those people for suckers? The ones who stood by him through thick and thin and thought this was finally something different? Former Trumpers should put the fear of God in him.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinMARCH 26, 2018
Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Best day for stocks in nearly three years.• A reality check on the White House’s tariff tactics.• Tim Cook and other C.E.O.s took shots at Facebook.• Eddie Lampert finally speaks about Sears.• Washington and Beijing hold trade talks.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Stocks on Wall Street surged on signs of easing trade tensions.The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 669 points, or 2.8 percent, the S.&P. 500 surged 2.7 percent and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite climbed 3.3 percent.AdvertisementIt was the largest one-day point gain for the Dow since October 2008, according to The WSJ, and the biggest one-day percentage gain for S.&P. 500 and Dow since August 2015.AdvertisementWorries that the Trump administration’s protectionist policies could ignite a trade war between the world’s two largest economies punished equities last week. American stocks endured their worst week in two years as the Dow lost 1,400 points, or 5.7 percent.Tensions seemed to relax over the weekend. The WSJ reported late Sunday that “China and the U.S. have quietly started negotiating to improve U.S. access to Chinese markets.” Also, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in an interview that he’s “cautiously hopeful” that China will reach a deal to avoid tariffs.Shares jumped at the open and the momentum gained through the day as last week’s hardest hit sectors led the way.• The S.&P. 500 technology sector rose 4 percent. Microsoft and Apple gained 7.6 percent and 4.8 percent, respectively.• The KBW Bank Index climbed 3 percent on Monday, after tumbling 8 percent last week. Bank of America finished up 4.4 percent, while Morgan Stanley gained 4.3 percent. The two stocks had fallen nearly 5 percent on Friday.• Even Facebook, which was down 6.5 percent earlier in the day from the continued fallout from the Cambridge Analytica scandal, was able to eek out gains. The stock finished up 0.4 percent higher.• Gun stocks were the exception. Shares of publicly traded firearms companies fell in the wake Remington Outdoor bankruptcy filing and this weekend rallies for gun control. American Outdoor Brands fell 2.3 percent, Vista Outdoor dropped 3.8 percent and Sturm, Ruger & Co. slipped less than 1 percent.Investors last week looked at President Trump’s tariffs against Chinese products and seemed to conclude that he was taking the U.S. into a trade war with China. The stock market plunged 6 percent.AdvertisementPerhaps eager to stop the rout, the White House on Monday had a less confrontational message: Mr. Trump is applying one of his negotiating tactics. According to this view, the tariff proposal was a jarring move partly aimed at getting China to see that the U.S. was serious about wanting to make trade with China fairer.From a CNBC interview with Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers:“From the beginning, all the way back to last summer when I arrived at the White House, the president has been clear that he wants to set a marker down with some big asks at the beginning, he doesn’t want to dribble them out, and then he wants his negotiators to try to fix the trade problems. ...Hopefully, it all works out with negotiation.”Mr. Hassett’s comments were in response to a WSJ article reporting that China and the U.S. were quietly engaged in trade negotiations.Investors seemed somewhat relieved: The stock market was up 1.5 percent on Monday. Of course, if the stakes are small enough, a deal may get done in the coming months that allows both sides to claim victory. But it seems unlikely that China would quickly agree to a far-reaching overhaul of the rules that govern foreign investment in the country, a major area of dispute. Our colleagues Raymond Zhong and Paul Mozur showed the depth of the divide there.Mr. Trump could up the ante if China shows no real signs that it will open up considerably. That could roil the markets again. The White House may want to signal that it can take market turmoil in stride. Mr. Hassett on Monday seemed to say that the White House expects market sell-offs as it pursues its trade agenda.“If you start from a world where a bunch your intellectual technology is being stolen, then of course it’s going to increase risk premiums in the short run when you try to do something about it, but in the end it should be a positive for us if we can get them to just stop them disregarding the rules of international order.”(Rising risk premiums means investors require a better return on their stocks and bonds to cover higher risks. This usually involves a decline in price to make their returns look better to prospective buyers.)Still, the more conciliatory tone from the White House after the sell-off suggests there is not a strong desire for a full-on trade war.— Peter EavisThe stock is down 6.5 percent Monday morning as the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that it has opened an investigation into Facebook’s privacy practice.AdvertisementAlso on Monday, Senator Chuck Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Mr. Zuckerberg to testify about privacy standards next month and also extended the invitation to Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, and Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.Facebook’s shares are down nearly 22 percent since its high in early February and off more than 18 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke more than a week ago.To put Facebook’s recent tumble in perspective: The stock is set for its worst monthly performance since August 2012. Over the past 10 days, Facebook has lost $100 billion in market value.Despite the fall, Wall Street has not soured on Facebook. Forty-four analysts have buy ratings on the stock, compare to just two who have sell ratings, according to Bloomberg.The Apple C.E.O. said at the China Development Forum in Beijing that the government should tighten privacy regulations, after last week’s revelations about Facebook and Cambridge Analytica:“I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary. The ability of anyone to know what you’ve been browsing about for years, who your contacts are, who their contacts are, things you like and dislike and every intimate detail of your life — from my own point of view, it shouldn’t exist.”Apple often uses privacy as a selling point, but Mr. Cook wasn’t the only critic. Elon Musk deleted SpaceX and Tesla’s Facebook pages, saying that the Tesla one “looks lame anyway.” Sir Martin Sorrell of the ad giant WPP said Facebook needed to “step up to the mark” and be responsible for content on its platform. And some companies have stopped buying ads on Facebook, highlighting how advertisers want more transparency about performance. (Users also complained that the Android app tracked calls and text messages.)Meanwhile, Facebook took out full-page ads in several British and American newspapers — including the NYT — for an apology signed by Mark Zuckerberg.Elsewhere in Cambridge Analytica news: A volunteer for the campaign for Britain to leave the E.U. said that a Canadian data company linked to Cambridge Analytica had played a role in the organization’s work. Groups campaigning against Brexit have written to Prime Minister Theresa May demanding an investigation into what members of her cabinet and her staff knew.Andrew’s takeMr. Cook’s points on privacy are absolutely right. But he has a tough needle to thread, given that Apple does business in China and acknowledges that it is “subject to each country’s laws” that it does business in. Apple encrypts all user data and says there is no back door — and I believe that — most security and political experts have speculated that Beijing might ultimately be able to gain access iCloud data for Chinese customers: It adopted a law requiring all cloud services to be operated by Chinese companies. Apple says that it lobbied against the new law, but ultimately complied.AdvertisementAs for Facebook’s ad, take note of this: “We expect there are others. And when we find them, we will ban them and tell everyone affected.” Settle in for more episodes before this soap opera ends.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Elsewhere in privacy: Growing calls for privacy could seriously dent the business model of ad-supported internet. Federal law enforcement officials are renewing a push for a legal mandate that would allow access to encrypted data in criminal investigations.The activist investor’s fund, Third Point, has built a position in United Technologies, according to an antitrust filing.He is the second activist investor to reveal a stake in the United Technologies during the past 30 days. On Feb. 28, Bill Ackman told CNBC that his Pershing Square had a position in the defense contractor.Context At a conference late last month, Greg Hayes, the chief executive of United Technologies, said the company was thinking of splitting up:“Is [United Technologies] a more valuable property together or is UTC better off in three separate businesses? That’s the question for the board. That’s the question we continue to study.”Shares of United Technologies are up nearly 3 percent on Monday.Gebr Knauf disclosed in a filing on Monday that it had offered to buy USG for $42 a share, or about $6 billion. That marked a 25 percent premium to USG closing price on Friday.In rejecting the offer, USG said the proposal substantially undervalued the building products maker.Knauf owns 10.5 percent of USG, making Knauf the second-largest shareholder in USG behind Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway with a 31 percent stake.Berkshire had proposed an option for Knauf to buy Berkshire’s stake in USG, according to the filing. The option would be exercisable only if Knauf bought all of USG’s shares outstanding for at least $42. Berkshire proposed an option purchase price of $2 per share.From Reuters:The option provides a sweetener for Buffett to shed a profitable investment that originated in late 2008, at the height of the housing crisis, when Berkshire and Canada’s Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd bought $400 million of USG’s debt.The $2 per share cost of the option would provide Berkshire about $86.8 million upfront, based on its 43.39 million share USG stake. Berkshire would keep that money even if Knauf proved unable to buy USG.Shares of USG are up 19 percent Monday.With Sears Holdings increasingly desperate in its efforts to stay afloat, the company’s C.E.O. gave his first in-depth interview in roughly 15 years to William D. Cohan of Vanity Fair. Mr. Lampert spoke about his past successes and his current travails as the head of the troubled retailer. (Mr. Cohan also spoke with Renaldo Rose, the man who spearheaded the kidnapping of Mr. Lampert in 2003.)AdvertisementThe money quote, from Mr. Lampert:“Put it this way, if I consider all the other alternatives, they’re not great for a lot of people and I just want to be responsible. If I didn’t believe that this company could be transformed still — the window is definitely shrinking — but if I didn’t believe that, I would try to take a different path. But I don’t know what that path exactly would be. It’s not a question of giving up or not giving up.”A bonus quote on Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Lampert’s college roommate and a director of Sears before becoming Treasury secretary, from Mark Cohen, the former C.E.O. of Sears Canada:“[With] all of Trump’s focus on jobs, job preservation, job creation, somebody ought to ask his secretary of the Treasury what his involvement has been for 11 years in the destruction of well over 100,000 jobs at Sears.”After a Friday that saw the markets sink amid fears of a trade war, the U.S. and China are holding high-level talks to defuse tensions, the WSJ reports. Leading them: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Liu He, Beijing’s economic czar.Among Washington’s requests, in a letter to Mr. Liu, were lower Chinese tariffs on American cars and more freedom for Wall Street firms to expand in China.Mr. Mnuchin told “Fox News Sunday” that he believed the recent rate increase by the Federal Reserve was to blame for recent market declines, not tariffs. He added, “We’re not afraid of a trade war, but that’s not our objective.”News of the talks have lifted markets in Asia and Europe, while S.&P. 500 futures jumped this morning. It will also undoubtedly ease the fears of C.E.O.s, economists and foreign leaders and allies who have openly fretted about the prospect of a trade war. A sample quote, from Larry Fink of BlackRock: “The world does not need a public fight in which we reduce future opportunities.”• Stormy Daniels told “60 Minutes” that she signed a nondisclosure agreement, for which she received $130,000, about an alleged affair with Donald J. Trump because she was worried about her safety and that of her daughter. “Leave Trump alone,” a stranger told her in 2011. Read the NYT profile of her from this weekend.•  President Trump decided not to add Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing to his legal defense team in the special counsel’s investigation. That team now largely consists of one lawyer, Jay Sekulow.• The spotlight has fallen on Elliott Broidy, a top Republican fund-raiser who promised White House access to his investment and defense contractor clients. (NYT)• How Jared Kushner is quietly trying to mend U.S.-Mexico relations. (NYT)• What to expect from John Bolton, the new national security adviser. (Axios)On a weekend in which millions turned out for student-led rallies for gun control, Remington Outdoor officially sought Chapter 11 protection in Delaware. The biggest problems for the firearms maker: too much debt after being sold to Cerberus Capital Management, and a drop in gun sales after Hillary Clinton lost the presidential election in 2016.AdvertisementOn guns and politics: Brad Karp and Christopher Boehning of the law firm Paul Weiss argue that firearms manufacturers should lose legal immunity to lawsuits tied to gun deaths. Saturday’s marches could make gun control a potent issue in the midterm elections. And the U.S.’s broad support for gun control has many nuances.The media mogul spoke to Maureen Dowd of the NYT about: President Trump (not a fan); the current state of the media business (bullish on Netflix, bearish on Hollywood); and cloning his late dog, Shannon (he did it). Here’s what he had to say about workplace misconduct:“We recently had a formal complaint made by a woman who said that she was at a convention with her colleagues and she was asked to have a drink with her boss. Period. That was the complaint. And we said, ‘Here’s the thing. Anybody can ask you anything, other than let’s presume something illegal, and you have the right to say “Yes” or “No.” If it’s “Yes,” go in good health and if it’s “No,” then it’s full stop.’“But the end result of that is a guy, let’s presume he is heterosexual, and his boss, heterosexual, and guy asks guy for a drink and they go have a drink and they talk about career opportunities. And the boss says, ‘Oh, this is a smart guy. I’m promoting him.’ A woman now cannot be in that position. So all these things are a-changin’.”But he also added, “Other than psychopaths, I think all of this bad behavior is finished.”The ride-hailing giant finally sealed a deal to sell its Southeast Asian business to the (SoftBank-backed) Grab in exchange for a stake in its competitor. Like the sale of its Chinese and Russian businesses, this gets Uber out of a costly fight as it readies for an I.P.O. next year. But does this mean that Uber is also set to leave other competitive markets, like India?On self-driving cars: Even before a pedestrian was killed in Tempe, Ariz., Uber was struggling with its autonomous vehicle efforts, needing human intervention nearly every 13 miles on average in Arizona tests. Those technical issues made being an operator of Uber’s cars very stressful.Elsewhere in tech: Amazon is collecting local taxes, but several cities aren’t seeing a dime. And why haven’t smart kitchen devices taken off?• SoftBank’s board is investigating who was behind a shareholder campaign that sought the ouster of two of its executives, unnamed sources said. It is also considering a $1 billion investment in a Chinese truck-hailing company, according to unnamed sources.• After naming Yi Gang the governor of China’s central bank, Beijing has put another reformer, Guo Shuqing, above him as the bank’s Communist Party secretary. (NYT)• John C. Williams, the president of the San Francisco Fed, is a top candidate to succeed Bill Dudley at the New York Fed. (NYT)Advertisement• Duke Tran, who was once a Khmer Rouge slave, has been fighting Wells Fargo for more than four years, saying he was fired for blowing the whistle on deceptive practices. (NYT)• G.E. sold off much of its lending unit, but investors are worried about what’s left of G.E. Capital. (WSJ)• Sergio Ermotti said UBS would be looking at small acquisitions to help it grow. (Bloomberg)• Britain’s JD Sports Fashion has agreed to buy Finish Line, the U.S. sportswear retailer that operates concessions in Macy’s, for $558 million. (Bloomberg)• Some of the most aggressive and successful labor actions in recent years have erupted when professionals felt their judgment, expertise and autonomy were under assault. (NYT)• When the elderly call for help in the U.S., it’s often a “chain” immigrant who answers. (NYT)• Apple is going to Hollywood, but will it find a happy ending? (NYT)• Ad agencies have long used classical music, but these days it’s more than a jokey device or a signifier of sophistication. (NYT)• New Japan Pro-Wrestling, backed by Mark Cuban, is out to loosen W.W.E.’s grip on the industry. (NYT)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Paul KrugmanPaul Krugman took questions from readers about trade after President Trump’s announcement of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Here are his answers to some of the hundreds of questions he received. — By the Editors1. Literally every small consumer item I buy is made in China. Please explain how this came to be (and whether you think we can or should take steps to change it).2. Should all manufacturing jobs flow to the lowest-cost, lowest-wage environments, regardless of working conditions or environmental impacts? If not, how can a free-trade system prevent this?3. The government of China is subsidizing the growth of its electric car industry by providing very significant subsidies (about one-third of cost) to consumers. This subsidy will allow the industry to scale up much more quickly and produce electric cars cheaper than anyone else. In a free-trade world, is this good planning, or cheating? — Nick Van Kleeck, Tucson, Ariz.Paul Krugman: 1. It’s partly a sort of optical illusion. China dominates assembly of many goods thanks to a combination of still-low wages and an extensive industrial “ecology” of supporting firms. But much of the value of the good actually comes from elsewhere. For example, iPhones are “made” in China, but China only accounts for less than 4 percent of their price.2. Not entirely — there’s some room for insisting on basic working conditions and environmental rules. But not too much. Consider Bangladesh: all it really has is a large labor force, with fairly low productivity. Low wages are the only way they can sell on world markets. If we insist that they follow first-world rules, we’re basically telling them to go starve.3. It’s tricky. Subsidizing consumers is O.K. under the rules, while subsidizing producers isn’t. If the U.S. offered tax breaks for electric cars, it would be perfectly legal under W.T.O. rules. The trouble is that given Chinese reality, you’re not going to see a lot of foreign electric cars sold there. But as these things go, it’s not a particularly egregious example.I remember in undergraduate school (1964) studying President Kennedy’s Trade Expansion Act of 1962. This was in a political economics class. What was the significance of this act and was it bipartisan? Also, recommend some readings on political economics. — Morgan Rauch, Houston, Tex.PK: It was bipartisan, and really a continuation of the process of reciprocal trade liberalization that began in 1934 under F.D.R. What changed under the “Kennedy Round” was that as easy targets for trade deals ran out, we shifted to internationally agreed formulas: cut all tariffs by X percent, then negotiate the exemptions. But most of the heavy lifting in tariff reduction had already happened.My question: How will American steel workers fare as a result of this tariff? I heard the head of a steel workers union on NPR welcome this tariff and he sounded as if their prayers have been answered! — James C., BrooklynPK: We will gain a few jobs in steel. But we’ll lose jobs in lots of other, “downstream” industries like autos. Most studies of the 2002 steel tariffs say that they cost jobs on net. So yes, steel workers get a little, but at what cost to other workers?I live very near a HUGE rusted-out steel plant, Bethlehem Steel in Steelton, Pa. I came here 44 years ago and it had already started its long sad road to its present obsolescence. Trump described this phenomenon in his rollout. He then had union workers talk about the production reductions to 20 percent from the heyday of domestic steel production.What source of funding could possibly come in and want to turn this 3.5-mile row of rusted barned eyesore around? Billions of dollars of investment would be necessary. The ideas of “Making America Great Again” seem to be based in recreating the economy of the ’50s, ’60s and ’70s. This and the return of coal to the high ridges of Pennsylvania seem a distant memory. Is revitalization of these old industries even a possibility? Aren’t the jobs from the Rust Belt too expensive to get back? Or would another community’s landscape be blighted instead? — CC, New Cumberland, Pa. PK: There’s no way to bring back all those steel plants and steel jobs, even if we stopped all imports. Partly that’s because a modern economy doesn’t use that much steel, partly because we can produce steel using many fewer workers, partly because old-fashioned open-hearth plants have been replaced by mini-mills that use scrap metal and aren’t in the same places. So this is all a fantasy.What is your critique of the anti-trade argument made by the Warren-Sanders wing of the Democratic Party: that free trade has been bad for the (proverbial) American worker and has been a significant contributor to America’s rising income and wealth inequality? Is the answer simply that the benefits of free trade — lower prices generally — are diffuse and therefore underappreciated, whereas the costs — worker dislocation in particular sectors — are concentrated and thus easier to highlight? How much of America’s increase in income inequality over the past half-century do you attribute to free trade?Thank you for addressing this. — JG in CT, Greenwich, Conn. How should we deal with the deindustrialization and loss of community that free trade has been causing? If tariffs are not the answer, what policies would you recommend? — L Marcus, New YorkPK: There’s some truth to the argument that growing trade has contributed to rising inequality; if imports of manufactures from developing countries were still as low as they were in, say, 1970, real wages of blue-collar workers would probably be a few percent higher than they are.But the level of protectionism it would take to get those few percent back would have lots of ugly side consequences. If we want to help U.D. workers — and we do — there are better ways.You may remember Bernie Sanders using Denmark as an example. It’s a good one: much better wages, a much stronger social safety net, a mostly unionized work force. But Denmark is as open to world trade as we are. It’s domestic policies — from taxing and spending decisions to pro-labor policies in the service sector — that make the difference. Universal health care and the right to organize matter a lot more for workers than trade policy.Why does the president of the United States have the authority to make decisions (such as imposing tariffs) that have significant impacts on the economy, trade, relationships with allies, etc. — with impunity, and with no input from Congress? What path should Congress be taking to restrict his powers.— Ricky, Saint Paul, Minn.PK: Actually, Congress voluntarily limited its own role, to protect itself from special-interest politics: it votes big trade deals up or down on a single vote, then stays out of it. But given the realities of trade tensions, the system needs some “escape valves” — ways to provide temporary relief in hard cases. That’s why the president has certain ways he can impose tariffs: if there’s a finding that an industry has been injured by an import surge, if national security is at stake, if foreigners pursue unfair practices.However, these powers aren’t supposed to be used arbitrarily: there’s supposed to be an independent study of the issue, and the president acts on the basis of that study. What’s happening with Trump is an abuse of the process: the Commerce Department came up with an obviously bogus national security rationale for tariffs Trump wanted to impose for other reasons.So we have a process that gives presidents some discretion, for pretty good reasons — but one that assumes that said presidents will act honestly and responsibly. It falls apart when you’re dealing with someone like Trump.Will we be able to undo this after this administration is voted out? Or does this have far too many long-term effects? — Stephanie Minister, Hingham, Mass.PK: President Oprah Winfrey, or whoever, can undo these tariffs with a stroke of the pen. However, we might get into a full-scale trade war before that happens, and in any case the U.S. has already lost its reputation as a reliable negotiating partner.My question is: What role does free trade play in income inequality, and the concentration of wealth in a global economy? I have little doubt that trade creates value. On average everyone ends up wealthier with free trade — better allocation of resources.Rarely do I see the unequal distribution of the value created by trade addressed. Sure, blue-collar workers all enjoy lower prices on apparel at Walmart with low-cost textiles from China, but some worker lost a $25/hour job in a U.S. textile mill, and the Walmart saving doesn’t offset the $15/hour job for that displaced worker. The downside of free trade is concentrated onto a relatively small group of people.I also believe that financiers and the capital class keep a large part of the savings when U.S. jobs are sent offshore, and individual workers with limited geographical scope pay a price.To me the question isn’t IF trade creates wealth, but for whom is the wealth created. — Tom Stoltz, DetroitPK: There’s been a lot of work on this question over the years. Back in 1995 I estimated that trade widened the gap between college and non-college workers by 3 percent, and that number has surely risen since, though maybe only a couple of points. By the way, the downside affects a lot of people, not just a small group.We also think that the surge in imports between 2000 and 2007 displaced something like a million workers. Most of those workers eventually found other jobs, but many faced wage cuts and some communities got hurt badly.So this isn’t a subject economists have been ignoring. You just want to ask what’s the best way to help workers, and tariffs are rarely the answer.Is a perennial (and rising) trade deficit desirable and even sustainable in the very long run? Much of our debt is now owned by other countries (see China and Japan for example). Are we not giving away ownership of our of national wealth to our trading partners? I am in favor of free trade but I was always puzzled by the decades-long rising trade deficit. Germany, for example, a Western democracy, manages to have a trade surplus (with the help of the euro of course, but they still make goods people want even outside the eurozone). I have read explanations that the privilege of having a reserve currency has a price, which is maintaining trade surpluses, and this in turn allows for lower interest rates and higher growth. Sounds interesting but still can we make the case that the rising debt is sustainable for the long run? What is your view? — Costa Glaretas PK: Basically, we have persistent trade deficits because we have low savings and remain an attractive place for foreigners to invest. And as a result, the U.S., which was a creditor country before we began running persistent deficits since 1980, is now a net debtor.But you want to keep some perspective. Our “net international investment position” — overseas assets less liabilities — is about -45 percent of G.D.P., which isn’t that big a number, all things considered. For example, it’s less than 10 percent of our national wealth.And the idea that this gives foreigners a lot of power over America has it backward. On the contrary, in a way it makes them our hostages: China has a lot of money tied up in America. Suppose they tried to pull it out: the worst that could happen would be a fall in the dollar, which would be good for U.S. manufacturing and inflict a capital loss on our creditors.Lot of things worry me; our foreign debt, not so much.Perhaps something else is going on. For example, steel and aluminum are key industries in Pittsburgh (home of Alcoa). Could the need to stop a string of Democratic midterm victories play a role in the timing and choice of targets for these tariffs? — Peter, San Mateo, Calif.PK: Quite possibly. We know that’s why Bush imposed steel tariffs in 2002. But I think this is mostly Trump trying to look tough. At a guess, Stormy Daniels had a bigger impact than PA-18.Clearly, global trade is too complicated for Donald Trump to fathom. But Paul Krugman? No. Not too complicated. So: pretend you are in his position, but with your knowledge and insight. What would you do regarding trade? Top three plays/passes. — Jack, NashvillePK: Basically, U.S. trade policy is O.K. The old days of lots of manufacturing jobs aren’t coming back whatever we do, and trying to save a few of them by ripping up trade rules would have lots of nasty side effects.I was against TPP, but not because I want a return to protectionism: the trouble with TPP was that it wasn’t about trade at all, it was mainly about intellectual property (e.g. pharma patents) and dispute settlement (giving corporations more power).What we need is a renewed commitment to universal health care, much more investment in infrastructure, policies to help families and a return to policies that empower unions, especially in the service sector. Defining trade as the problem is just a way to duck real solutions.What are the worst-case repercussions of these tariffs when our trade partners retaliate? — Donald Ferruzzi, Centereach, N.Y.PK: In the short run, there’s a huge amount of disruption: we’d eventually gain jobs in import-competing industries, but we’d immediately lose a lot of jobs both in export sectors (including farming) and in industries that are currently part of global supply chains, like autos and electronics. So we’d be talking about millions of immediate losers, even if some would eventually gain.In the longer run, the economy would just be less efficient: instead of concentrating on stuff we’re especially good at, we’d be doing a lot of labor-intensive stuff for ourselves. I haven’t seen a good estimate of just how much poorer, but it would surely be worse than Brexit, which typical estimates say will make Britain about 2 percent poorer.We’re not talking the end of the world or even a major depression here. Just a big short-term mess and a longer-term drag on economic growth.What part do disparate wages and benefits paid to workers by the various trading nations play in trade policy, if any? If Country A can, because of low wages, produce a product at half or less the cost of Country B, how can trade, without tariffs, ever be fair? — abigail49, Ga.PK: What you need to ask is why wages are so much lower in some countries than they are here. The answer is that they have much lower overall productivity — globally, the relationship between productivity and average wages is pretty close to one-for-one. So when you look at low-wage countries, they have a big cost advantage in sectors like clothing where their productivity isn’t too much lower than ours, but a big cost disadvantage in higher-tech sectors.Remember, Germany, which runs the world’s biggest trade surplus, actually pays substantially higher wages than we do.Just a thought from a U.S. contractor:At Home Depot and Lowe’s it’s essentially impossible to find a steel hand tool (hammer, saw, chisel, screwdriver, etc.) or electric tool that is NOT made in China, Taiwan or Mexico. In addition, the quality of that foreign steel is clearly inferior, subject to fast oxidation (rusting) or actual fracture. Although the few American-made tools available are somewhat more expensive, those of us who want something to last buy American — IF you can find it. It’s a sad state of affairs that we can’t compete with the imports even though our production quality is far superior to foreign steel. Will the tariffs fix this? No clue. — LJM, Cape Cod, Mass.PK: If people are buying inferior foreign products, isn’t that their choice? Maybe they care more about low prices than quality. It’s kind of like buying fresh but expensive local produce: I prefer it, but I’m affluent enough to make that choice. Many people aren’t.I’m interested in the analysis of the mechanics of such decisions worldwide, especially for third world economies, rather than the important political conflicts among nations that you mentioned in your excellent article. — Wail Fahmi BedawiPK: It all depends on how widespread the trade conflict gets. I often focus on the example of Bangladesh, where people used to predict mass deaths from starvation due to overpopulation, but it’s currently keeping its head above water and even achieving significant growth (from a very low base) thanks to open world markets that let it export lots of clothing. If we do have a full-scale trade war, the impact on places like Bangladesh will be devastating if not deadly.How much damage should we expect these tariffs to do to the economy and the markets? Will they affect some regions of the U.S. more than others? I’m a public employee and I’m wondering about state tax receipts. — UCB Parent, Calif. PK: By themselves, the steel and aluminum tariffs aren’t that big a deal. Consumers won’t notice them much; some auto plants, etc., that might have opened will be canceled, but I don’t expect to see any existing plants closed. Revenue effects will also be small.But if this turns into tit-for-tat, with Europe retaliating and Trump retaliating back, who knows?Questions: 1) How will the tariffs affect E.U. countries? Will they weaken the NATO alliance?2) What impact will the tariffs have on England going into Brexit?3) Will the TPP countries fare better for their new trade agreement?4) Which countries are likely to fare better because of Trump’s tariffs? Mary M, Raleigh, N.C.PK: This is all pretty small stuff so far: the E.U. is as big an economy as ours is, so it’s marginal there as here. I don’t think it affects the Brexit calculus at all. If Canada doesn’t get a sustained exemption, it’s a bigger deal: they’re a fairly small economy that supplies most of our aluminum imports.For now, the bigger impact is on foreign relations: now nobody trusts us, and China and Russia are the big winners from that distrust.How is it that so many economists of all political stripes agree that protective tariffs are bad? Up until the Smoot-Hawley tariff debacle of the 1930s, weren’t tariffs a fairly common economic policy prescription? Did the Great Depression unfairly give tariffs a bad name or did the field of economics just advance beyond tariffs as part of the economic policy tool kit? — Jason Williams Washington, D.C.PK: Actually, economists were overwhelmingly against Smoot-Hawley. There has always been a minority view supporting tariffs under certain circumstances — usually for economic development. But the failure of import-substituting industrialization in Latin America and India largely discredited that view.Please respond to Daniel McCarthy’s Op-Ed point-for-point. His arguments are very convincing but counter to yours. Someone is drinking cool aid here and without an authentic debate it’s impossible to know which position is less self-serving. — Michael, ChicagoPK: Many readers asked a version of this question. McCarthy’s whole article is premised on the notion that protectionism can bring back a manufacturing-centered economy. I couldn’t find any facts at all about trade in his article, certainly no numbers.And if you actually do look at the numbers, you immediately realize that his whole premise is wrong: we could shut down trade completely and manufacturing would still employ less than 10 percent of the work force.So I’m not sure what to argue with. He didn’t do his homework.Dr. Krugman, assuming a reasonable fair and level playing field, wouldn’t a worldwide free-trade agreement benefit all of humanity? It would seem that products and services would be produced by the best and the most efficient and/or the closest in proximity to resources whether human or earth born.The E.U. is moving ahead with the TTP. Will this cripple U.S. trade in Asia? — Steve, SeattlePK: TPP won’t make that much difference to trade, since it wasn’t mostly about trade (it was about intellectual property and dispute settlement). I’m less worried about the U.S. loss of trade than our loss of influence: we’re a less and less credible negotiating partner.Follow me on Twitter (@PaulKrugman) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinMARCH 12, 2018
Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Trump puts an end to Broadcom’s bid for Qualcomm.• David Solomon is Goldman Sachs’s heir apparent.• Can Solomon get Goldman playing a new tune?• Apple agrees to buy Texture.• Short Netflix• Dropbox unveils its I.P.O. target.Get this in your inbox every morning. Sign up here.President Trump on Monday blocked Broadcom’s bid for the chip maker Qualcomm, citing national security concerns.In a presidential order, Mr. Trump said “there is credible evidence” that led him to believe Singapore-based Broadcom’s control of Qualcomm, which is based in San Diego, “might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States.”AdvertisementThe extraordinary action by the president underscored the more forceful and protectionist action his administration has taken in recent weeks to protect American companies and ward off foreign investment in the United States. It followed an intervention this month by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which typically works behind closed doors and reviews deals only after they are announced, to stall the deal because of national security concerns.AdvertisementFrom President Trump’s order:(a) There is credible evidence that leads me to believe that Broadcom Limited, a limited company organized under the laws of Singapore (Broadcom), along with its partners, subsidiaries, or affiliates, including Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation, and Broadcom Cayman L.P., a Cayman Islands limited partnership, and their partners, subsidiaries, or affiliates (together, the Purchaser), through exercising control of Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm), a Delaware corporation, might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States; and(b) Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), do not, in my judgment, provide adequate and appropriate authority for me to protect the national security in this matter.Further down(e) The Purchaser and Qualcomm shall immediately and permanently abandon the proposed takeover. Immediately upon completion of all steps necessary to terminate the proposed takeover of Qualcomm, the Purchaser and Qualcomm shall certify in writing to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) that such termination has been effected in accordance with this order and that all steps necessary to fully and permanently abandon the proposed takeover of Qualcomm have been completed.Most C.E.O.s have to go to work each day and grind out better margins in highly competitive businesses that taxpayers won’t bail out if they blow up.This is now the fate that awaits the next C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs.In apparently priming David M. Solomon for the job, Goldman seems to be signaling that, even if trading revenue revives after some difficult quarters, it intends to press on with its efforts to bolster its nontrading businesses, like lending to corporations and consumers. Mr. Solomon, after a successful run as the head of Goldman’s powerful deal-making business, embodies in many ways the bank’s hopes to be far more than a high-octane trading shop.Of course, if the Trump administration guts Wall Street regulations, particularly the Volcker Rule, Goldman may be tempted to pile back into trading. But the bank’s recent track record in trading suggests that would not be a good idea.Not only does Goldman’s business that trades bonds, derivatives, currencies and commodities bounce around too much for shareholders’ tastes, it is opaque. Bank executives are often loath to talk in detail when it underperforms.Goldman also made strategic mistakes in this business in recent years. It focused too heavily on hedge fund clients, something it is trying to fix by reaching out to different types of customers. Its commodities business, which it clung to in the face of political pressure, has been a drawn out disappointment.And Wall Street traders ought not to get too excited about the prospects of deregulation. As some rules get loosened, others may get toughened up, like those that would liquidate a troubled Wall Street firm rather than bail it out. While the government may not be winding down any large banks anytime soon, the diminished likelihood of bailouts can force up the cost of borrowing for firms like Goldman. This, in turn, may steer them away from riskier businesses like trading.Investors still seem to doubt Goldman’s desire to adapt to a much more ordinary future. This is revealed in a comparison of Goldman and its rival, Morgan Stanley.AdvertisementGoldman’s return on shareholder equity, a closely watched metric that quantifies the profits generated on shareholders’ money, has been higher than that of Morgan Stanley in recent years. But investors seem just as enthusiastic about the future of Morgan Stanley. Its stock trades at the same multiple to shareholders equity as Goldman’s. Why? Morgan Stanley has arguably done more than Goldman to diversify away from trading to businesses, like wealth management, that are more stable.— Peter EavisDavid M. Solomon is Goldman Sachs’s heir apparent.The Wall Street firm said Mr. Solomon would serve as its sole president and chief operating officer, setting him up as the potential successor to Lloyd C. Blankfein, the investment bank’s longtime chief executive.ContextMr. Solomon and Harvey M. Schwartz were seen as the favorites to eventually replace Mr. Blankfein when they were named co-chief operating officers and presidents in December 2016.But, Mr. Schwartz, who previously served as the bank’s chief financial officer and global co-head of the securities division, has decided to retire in April, Goldman said on Monday.“Harvey has been a mentor to many, and his influence has made an indelible impact on generations of professionals at Goldman Sachs,” Mr. Blankfein said in a news release. “I want to thank Harvey for all he’s done for the firm.”Mr. Solomon joined Goldman Sachs in 1999 and previously served as co-head of its investment banking division.— Chad BrayCritic’s cornerAnthony Currie of Breakingviews writes: “If Solomon does take the reins, it would end some 12 years of traders holding top positions at the Wall Street firm – and serve as another sign of Goldman’s troubles in that business.”Case in point:• Trading accounted for 53 percent of Goldman’s revenue in 2012.• It made just over a third of the firm’s revenue last year.Advertisement“Meanwhile, takings from merger advisory and stock-and-bond underwriting – Solomon’s world – increased by half over the past six years. So positioning him as likely heir would look like a way of rewarding past success.”Goldman’s reputation for advising companies in mergers and acquisitions is well earned. Most years, it tops the rankings of advisers by deal volume known as the league tables.So it was a bit surprising to see Goldman currently ranked fifth on both the global and the United States league tables. Here’s a look:Global Morgan Stanley: $228.88 billionJPMorgan: $198.82 billionBank of America Merrill Lynch: $138.76 billionLazard: $134.39 billionGoldman Sachs: $131.56 billionUnited StatesMorgan Stanley: $132.36 billionLazard: $119.69 billionJPMorgan: $114.37 billionCenterview: $112.75 billionGoldman Sachs: $102.54 billionTwo points to note: 1) It is still early in the year and one big deal can reshuffle the rankings; 2) The value of transactions Goldman has advised on this year is up 31 percent from the same period a year ago.Larry Kudlow emerged Monday as the latest favorite in a changing rotation of potential replacements for Gary D. Cohn as the head the National Economic Council.The job has not been formally offered to Mr. Kudlow, but the CNBC television commentator, who has informally advised President Trump on economic issues, is likely to interview him in the coming days.ContextFrom the NYT’s Maggie Haberman and Jim Tankersley: Heading into the weekend, the top contender to replace Mr. Cohn was Christopher Liddell, who is a special assistant to the president working with the Office of American Innovation on a team led by Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser. Mr. Liddell’s previous experience as a chief financial officer for Microsoft had been seen as a selling point.But after The New York Times reported that Mr. Liddell was under consideration, Mr. Trump received pushback from people both inside and outside the White House, according to the people close to the president. On Monday, The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board wrote a piece critical of Mr. Liddell’s views on free trade.On Sunday, Mr. Trump again began discussing Mr. Kudlow as an option, the people close to the president said.In a revised prospectus filed this morning, the online storage company said that it planned to sell 36 million shares at $16 to $18 a share. At the midpoint of that range, Dropbox would be valued at about $7.5 billion, compared to the $10 billion of its most recent private fund-raising.AdvertisementThe big thought: The Dropbox offering — along with that of Spotify — could show how interested Wall Street investors are in the latest batch of Silicon Valley “unicorns,” or privately held companies worth at least $1 billion.The man who made Dropbox: Meet Drew Houston, who created a multibillion-dollar business because he forgot to bring a USB flash drive one day while a student at M.I.T. His holdings could be worth nearly $1.7 billionThe market for initial public offerings is on a tear, and, going by Dropbox’s latest financial filing, it may be getting a little overheated.Dropbox, a company that stores files on remote computers for consumers and businesses, on Monday said it aims to price its shares at between $16 and $18.The midpoint of those two prices would value Dropbox at around $6.8 billion, excluding some shares that may be awarded to executives in the future.That’s a lot, though about 30 percent below the $10 billion valuation it received after its fundraising round in 2014.At $6.8 billion, Dropbox would be trading at just over six times the $1.1 billion in sales it had for 2017. Companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index trade at 2.3 times sales. Dropbox would also have a higher valuation than Box, another file storage company, whose market value is 5.6 times the revenue it generated in its last fiscal year, which ended in January.Investors may, however, decide that Dropbox’s higher valuation is not justified. True, its sales grew at an impressive 31 percent last year, but that is not materially faster than the 27 percent Box achieved in its latest fiscal year. (Revenue grew 6.3 percent at companies in the S.&P. 500, according to FactSet.)AdvertisementNeither company made a profit in their most recent fiscal year. Both are generating positive cash flows, though. And at $330 million last year, Dropbox’s cash flows were more than five times those of Box’s $62 million. If Dropbox went public at the $6.8 billion implied in Monday’s filing, it would trade at 21 times its 2017 cash flows. That is pricey, but that is less than half of Box’s cash flow multiple.— Peter EavisSpeculation has long swirled that Apple should buy Netflix. On Monday, the iPhone maker agreed to buy Texture, the “Netflix of magazines.”Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The digital magazine app offers users a $10 a month subscription to read more than 200 magazines, including People, the New Yorker, Vanity Fair, and Vogue.The deal is part of Apple’s effort to bolster its services businesses. The WSJ reports:Apple has set a goal of increasing total revenue from services to more than $40 billion by 2020. The company generated nearly $30 billion in services revenue in its fiscal year ended in September.The Texture transaction follows Apple’s deal for Shazam, the music recognition app, in December.Texture is owned by Next Issue Media, a joint-venture between Condé Nast, Hearst, Meredith, News Corp, Rogers Media and K.K.R.Apple did not disclose the price.Shares of the video streaming company are down 3.4 percent Monday to about $320 after the short seller Andrew Left of Citron Research tweeted that he thinks the stock can be ”shorted back to $300.”
            Stranger Things happening at $NFLX. Wit mkt cap up $17 BIL in a week and short interest. at 10 year low. Citron thinks the stock can be shorted back to $300. Content spend unsustainable long term. Great article today's FT https://t.co/jTM8lGoWdp Congrats to bulls, historic run        Shares of Netflix close Friday at $331.44, up nearly 14 percent for March.From the outside, the Saudi businessmen (including Prince Alwaleed bin Talal) who were corralled into Riyadh’s Ritz-Carlton — in what Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman described as an anticorruption campaign — seemed to be in a gilded cage.The reality was far more disturbing. Many were physically abused and one captive was killed, witnesses told the NYT. The Saudi government extracted billions of dollars of assets from detainees to set them free.More from Ben Hubbard, David Kirkpatrick, Kate Kelly and Mark Mazzetti of the NYT:One former detainee, forced to wear a tracking device, has sunk into depression as his business collapses. “We signed away everything,” a relative of his said. “Even the house I am in, I am not sure if it is still mine.”The net effect: Many outside investors, whom Saudi officials have hoped to woo to help transform the kingdom’s economy, are now rattled by what they say was a lack of transparency.AdvertisementOf note: The roles of the accounting company PWC and the law firm Clifford Chance in the Saudi government’s takeover of MBC, a broadcaster.Elsewhere in the kingdom: Aramco is more likely to go public next year than late this year as originally expected, Michael reported yesterday. Among the issues is that much of the work in pulling off the biggest I.P.O. in history has yet to be finished.Students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School took out a full-page ad in the NYT over the weekend to thank businesses “who acted on their consciences and took positive steps for change” after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla. Among the companies thanked: BlackRock, Bumble, Delta, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Gucci, Kroger, REI and Walmart.The students are looking for GoFundMe donations for their March For Our Lives on March 24 in Washington.Lots of big businesses weren’t mentioned. Let us know if your company is changing its policies or donating to the march.History hasn’t been kind to those who seek victory in trade conflicts, though it remains unclear whether President Trump’s tariffs will play out the same way.Farmers in the Midwest are fearful of a tit-for-tat response that could lose them customers. And investors are watching to see whether a full-blown global trade conflict will erupt.The politics flyaround • Mr. Trump’s unpredictability has helped cast China as  a more stable superpower. And changes to the Chinese Constitution that allow President Xi Jinping to govern indefinitely could usher him into a global club of autocrats alongside leaders like Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore and Vladimir Putin of Russia.Advertisement• Business are scrambling to address errors and ambiguities in the U.S. tax overhaul. (NYT)• Chris Liddell, a White House official and a former executive at Microsoft and G.M., is a front-runner to succeed Gary Cohn as the administration’s top economic adviser. (NYT)• The White House has held discussions with a lawyer who represented Bill Clinton during his impeachment to help deal with Robert Mueller’s investigation. (NYT)• The Trump Organization’s outside ethics adviser has raised questions about a potential hotel deal between the company and Kushner Companies. (NYT)• Elon Musk outlined what the first colony on Mars would look like. TL;DR: It wouldn’t just be an escape for the wealthy, but “an explosion of entrepreneurial opportunity.” (Axios)• Jeff Bezos said that he was using his “Amazon lottery winnings” to make space travel more affordable. (Bloomberg)By the time he was essentially forced out of the ride-hailing giant, Mr. Kalanick had annoyed many onetime allies among the company’s senior executives and outside investors, according to Business Insider. Among them: Salle Yoo, Uber’s longtime top lawyer, and Rachel Whetstone, the company’s communications head, who have both since left the company.And then there was Bill Gurley of the investment firm Benchmark. According to the article:As Gurley pondered his options, he received an email that kicked him in the gut. It was from Katrina Lake, C.E.O. of the apparel-shopping service Stitch Fix, one of Benchmark’s other highly successful portfolio companies. Lake lambasted Gurley for not doing enough to fix Uber. She accused him of shirking his responsibility to make Silicon Valley a better place.Elsewhere in Uber: How the company can still create its own reality distortion field for investors. How it plans to expand Uber Eats. Oh, and its brand chief, Bozoma St. John, has quietly been driving for Uber Pool.The virtual currency corner:  Bitcoin is at $9,882.73. Some investors are using the virtual currency as an indicator of when the stock market will drop. Some exchanges are reportedly charging up to $1 million for the listing of initial coin offerings on their platforms. And scammers made off with more than $2 million in digital money with a fake I.C.O.AdvertisementThe tech flyaround • SoftBank is bringing together its Vision Fund and Fortress Investment to create an investing powerhouse. (NYT)• Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web, says internet giants need to be regulated. (Axios)• Senator Mark Warner, who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee, says he is worried about the security of internet-connected devices. (CNBC)• Some former employees of Google say the company is going too far in its diversity efforts — others say it’s not going far enough. (NYT)Employees in restaurants and bars face a daily struggle to balance abuse from customers with the need to earn tips, according to dozens of servers who spoke with the NYT.Workers’ advocates are pushing a dozen states and the District of Columbia to change laws allowing restaurants to pay less than the minimum wage, which makes earning tips a necessity.Please tell us your experiences with tipping, too.The misconduct flyaround• The U2 frontman Bono apologized after a charity he helped found was accused of fostering an atmosphere of bullying, abuse and, in one case, attempted sexual coercion in its Johannesburg operation. (NYT)• Read the harassment policies of venture capital firms like Andreessen Horowitz, DFJ and Spark Capital, some of which promise to fire employees who violate the rules (even if that hasn’t always happened). (Recode)• Andrew Liveris will step down as executive chairman of DowDuPont next month. Jim Fitterling, a lieutenant to Mr. Liveris, will take over the Dow materials science business after DowDuPont splits up. (WSJ)“I feel like Huck Finn listening to his own eulogy.”— Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, on the WSJ reporting that he could step down as C.E.O. as soon as year end.Advertisement• “Westworld” exists. HBO created an entire theme park based on the show for the film festival SXSW in Austin, Tex. (Business Insider)• Insurers shuffle their customers among privately managed plans to bolster their federal bonus payments. (WSJ)• The New York approach to running magazines may have run its course, making the approach of Des Moines-based Meredith Corporation look prescient. (NYT)• Here’s how a French company pushed the limits in war-torn Syria. (NYT)• Top executives at Deutsche Bank will forgo bonuses for a third consecutive year after another loss. (WSJ)• An anticorruption group has called on the British authorities to investigate Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered over claims the banks handled more than $2 billion of allegedly embezzled funds from 1MDB, a Malaysian state investment fund. (FT)• Global accounting watchdogs identified serious problems at about 40 percent of the audits they inspected last year. (FT)• Big multinationals are paying significantly lower tax rates than before the 2008 financial crisis. (FT)Advertisement• Blackstone has turned India into its most profitable market. (Bloomberg)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinMARCH 8, 2018
Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching:• The leeway in President Trump’s tariff order.• President Trump authorizes tariffs.• What happens when the bond market and the Fed disagree?• Cigna struck a big deal for Express Scripts.• The White House plans to unveil its tariffs today.• Protesters want Visa to stop processing sales of assault-style rifles.Want this in your inbox each morning? Sign up here.President Trump has backed trade restrictions for much of his public life, but his tariff orders have some wiggle room. This leeway could come in useful if his administration needs to step back in the face of economic or political pressure.AdvertisementFirst, the secretary of commerce, Wilbur Ross, has leeway to exempt certain steel and aluminum imports from the restrictions if he determines that the United States lacks the capacity to produce them. There is also a national security exemption, notable since national security concerns are the legal basis for the tariffs.The Secretary has also recommended that I authorize him, in response to specific requests from affected domestic parties, to exclude from any adopted import restrictions those steel articles for which the Secretary determines there is a lack of sufficient U.S. production capacity of comparable products, or to exclude steel articles from such restrictions for specific national security-based considerations.AdvertisementSecond, the order leaves the door open to discussions with allies other than Mexico and Canada, which are currently exempt. It says that a country that has a security relationship with the United States is welcome to discuss ways to allay the United States’ national security concerns. If successful, the president might decide to modify or remove the tariffs.Any country with which we have a security relationship is welcome to discuss with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports from that country. Should the United States and any such country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national security such that I determine that imports from that country no longer threaten to impair the national security, I may remove or modify the restriction on steel articles imports from that country and, if necessary, make any corresponding adjustments to the tariff as it applies to other countries as our national security interests require.— Peter EavisThe president defied allies both in his own party and overseas Thursday and signed an order imposing sweeping new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, reports the NYT’s Peter Baker and Ana Swanson.Still, he sought to soften the impact on some of America’s closest allies. For now, Canada and Mexico are exempt and there is the possibility of later excluding allies such as Australia. But the order could hit South Korea, China, Japan, Germany, Turkey and Brazil.From the NYT:“The orders represented Mr. Trump’s most expansive use of federal power to rewrite the rules of global trade since he took office and upended the prevailing consensus on free markets that has largely governed Washington under administrations of both parties for decades. A longtime critic of globalization, Mr. Trump argued that the United States has been ravaged by unfair trading partners, particularly in fading sectors like steel and aluminum.”The details• The orders will raise levies on foreign steel by 25 percent and on imported aluminum by 10 percent.• Mr. Trump said the order would give him the authority to raise or lower levies on a country-by-country basis and add or take countries off the list as he deems fit.• The order goes into effect in 15 days.Tariff flyaround• A group of 11 nations — including major United States allies like Japan, Canada and Australia — signed a broad trade deal on Thursday that challenges Mr. Trump’s view of trade as a zero-sum game filled with winners and losers. (NYT)• The chances of a complete breakdown in the global trade system remain remote, if a little less remote than a week ago. (NYT)Advertisement• The marriage of establishment and populist economic thinking was always an uneasy one. Now President Trump’s steel and aluminum tariffs are forcing the Republican party to choose between its core business supporters and populist voters. (WSJ)• The tariffs have caused much concern about President Trump’s trade policy. A probe into Chinese intellectual property policy could prove more devastating. (Breakingviews)When the Federal Reserve and the bond market are at loggerheads, it’s almost as if the economy’s parents are fighting. The kids, stock investors and borrowers in this analogy, just don’t know who to side with.This dynamic appears to explain what happened in early February when inflation fears sent bond prices lower and, in turn, set off panicked selling in the stock market.Now, as the Fed gets ready to raise interest rates several times, differences between the central bank and the bond market could start to matter more.There is no conclusive way to measure the degree of disagreement between the Fed and the bond markets. But that didn’t stop us having a go.One approach is to compare the yield on the bellwether 10-year Treasury note with Fed policymakers’ forecasts for the central bank’s target rate. Several times a year, the policymakers project where the federal funds target rate will be at different points in the future. In this exercise, we compared the 10-year’s yield with the median forecast made in December for the target rate at the end of the next year.In December of 2014, 2015 and 2016, the 10-year’s yield was around 1 percentage point higher than the forecast.AdvertisementBut in December last year, the difference between the two numbers had shrunk markedly. The yield was only 0.26 of a percentage point above the forecast.One interpretation of this narrowing: The bond market was behind in reacting to economic strength. And when it did snap out of its possibly complacent state, it did so sharply. The 10-year yield is now 2.88 percent, up from 2.39 percent before the meeting in Dec. 2017.With that increase, there was a 0.77 percentage point difference between the policymakers forecast and the yield on the 10-year Treasury on Monday.But if the 10-year yield moved up to reestablish a 1-percentage point difference, it would sail past the psychologically important 3 percent mark.The problem, of course, with using Fed policymakers’ forecasts is that the Fed has made them public only for a few years.To get a much longer perspective, we looked back at the actual interest rate that the Fed targets, which is set in the market for the funds that banks must keep on deposit at the Fed. We compared this effective federal funds rate with the 10-year’s yield.
            The difference between the 10-year Treasury note yield and the effective federal funds rate, compared with the median difference since the early 1960s, in percentage points.        MARCH 8, 2018
On Monday, that spread was 1.46 percentage points. How does that compare? It’s tighter than the median for the past eight years, 1.95 percentage points. The 10-year yield would have moved a lot higher to take the spread back there.But there is a less alarming viewpoint. The current 1.46 percentage point spread is only slightly higher than the median 1.24 percentage points for the 50-plus years we studied.AdvertisementAnd, perhaps most reassuringly, 1.46 percentage points is very close to the 1.67 percentage point median for June 2003 till the end of 2006, a period in which the Fed raised interest rates repeatedly.— Peter EavisCigna finally got a big deal done by buying Express Scripts, one of the U.S.’s largest drug benefits managers, for $69 billion, including debt.The bigger point: as always, health care companies want to get bigger and gain negotiating leverage, while branching out into different businesses.The details: The insurer agreed to pay $48.75 a share in cash and 0.2434 of a newly issued share for each Express Scripts share. That’s about $96.03 as of yesterday’s close, a roughly 30 percent premium to Express Scripts’ closing price.The context: Cigna’s planned sale to Anthem finally collapsed last year, as did Humana’s sale to Aetna, which was then acquired by CVS.Courtesy of our friends at Thomson Reuters:• At $69 billion, Cigna-Express Scripts would be the biggest deal of the year.• It is the 33rd deal valued at more than $5 billion announced this year. That is a record number for any year through March 8.• The value of those 33 transactions is $419 billion, or 53 percent of all acquisitions announced in 2018.• With nearly $800 billion in acquisitions announced globally this year, deal making is off to its best start since 2000.Protesters plan to gather at the payment processor’s headquarters in Foster City, Calif., at 11 a.m. P.T. today to demand that such companies stop doing business with sellers of assault-style rifles. It’s a demonstration that grew out of Andrew’s column last month arguing that the financial industry could help alter gun regulations.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Visa quite literally has the power to save lives and their customers are demanding it,” said Nita Chaudhary of UltraViolet, one of the organizers of the protest.AdvertisementElsewhere in guns and business: Why Wells Fargo is the biggest lender to the firearms industry. And Republican lawmakers are turning to measures to bolster school security, rather than gun control, just as makers of metal detectors and bulletproof clipboards have hoped.Late last month, Goldman Sachs announced Dina Powell, a former deputy national security adviser to President Trump, would be joining the firm’s management committee. Lloyd Blankfein, the firm’s chief executive of Goldman Sachs, had seized on the chance to bring back Ms. Powell, Bloomberg reports, in the hope that her experience in the White House would help the firm navigate the Trump presidency.But the move has not sat well with some at the bank. Bloomberg reports:“The decision to create a new seat on the committee for an executive whose prior experience at Goldman Sachs centered on philanthropy and related initiatives has become a topic of debate inside its hyper-competitive headquarters in lower Manhattan. Before joining the White House last year, Powell’s projects included helping small businesses and charities. Adding that background to a board stocked mostly with profit producers serving elite global clients is frustrating some top executives, people close to the situation said, asking not to be identified describing private conversations.”• President Trump went against legal counsel and asked witnesses in Robert Mueller’s investigation what the special counsel had asked. Mr. Mueller reportedly has gathered evidence that a Seychelles meeting in 2016 between a Trump adviser and a Russian official was an attempt to create a backchannel to the Kremlin. And Hope Hicks reportedly told House investigators that her emails were hacked.• Some blue-collar Trump voters think the tax overhaul’s results have been meh. (NYT)• Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, obtained a restraining order against the adult-film actress Stormy Daniels. (NYT)• How Trump campaign workers were rewarded. (NYT)So serious is the Trump administration’s review of the chip maker’s takeover bid for Qualcomm that Broadcom has pledged to advance the American lead in 5G wireless research and to create a $1.5 billion fund to train U.S. engineers.Broadcom’s legally headquartered in Singapore for now, but Michael looked at how foreign it is on measures like number of employees and facilities in the U.S. The short answer: It looks a lot like Qualcomm.AdvertisementElsewhere in Broadcom: A customer, Western Digital, has accused the company of playing unfair hardball. And why China views Huawei with pride — and the U.S. views it with fear.The deals flyaround• Univision’s C.E.O., Randy Falco, plans to retire at year end, and the broadcaster has called off its I.P.O.• Mellanox said that it would hold a special shareholder meeting to vote on two corporate governance items, but the activist Starboard Value began a board fight at the chip maker and is unlikely to be happy with a delay in the annual meeting.• Spotify has picked Citadel Securities to set the price for its direct listing debut, according to unnamed sources. (WSJ)• Meet JAB, the secretive conglomerate that bought brands like Peet’s and Dr Pepper Snapple and is taking on Nestlé. (WSJ)• Analysts at JPMorgan said Archer-Daniels Midland would probably bid for Bunge, but the economics of a takeover weren’t compelling. (FT)• J.M. Smucker is considering selling its bakery brands, including Pillsbury, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• Bayer is in talks to sell its vegetable seeds business to BASF to win approval for its takeover of Monsanto. (Bayer)Here are some highlights from his interview with David Streitfeld of the NYT.On Facebook: the board was “far from perfect” in thinking about the tech giant’s longer-term problems. And the anger now focused on the company is about the industry’s arrogance: “Silicon Valley says the future is going to be better than the past. That is the propaganda, if you will.”AdvertisementOn Mr. Trump: He’s not that close to the president anymore, and the White House has “fallen short” of expectations. But this administration is better than Hillary Clinton’s or any other Republican’s would have been.On Gawker: He doesn’t want to buy the defunct site to erase its archives, he asserts. “Preserve them, study them instead.”Virtual currency corner: Bitcoin is at about $10,058 this morning, down after some exchanges reportedly had problems processing orders. The S.E.C. says that digital money trading platforms need to register with it. Japanese regulators punished seven exchanges after the CoinCheck heist.The tech flyaround • Travis Kalanick is going from Uber C.E.O. to venture capitalist, with focuses on China and India. (WSJ)• Uber is retreating from Southeast Asia and is close to selling its operations in parts of the region to Grab, the dominant ride-hailing service, unnamed sources said. (Bloomberg)• Amazon is offering a discount on its Prime membership program to Medicaid recipients. And Alexa is now less likely to produce spontaneous, sinister laughter.• Snap is preparing to lay off about 100 people, its biggest round of job cuts to date. (Cheddar)• Ad prices rose on Facebook after it revamped its News Feed algorithm. (Recode)Advertisement• Ireland’s data regulator has threatened big fines for tech giants who run afoul of new European privacy laws. (FT)• What our tech columnist, Farhad Manjoo, learned after getting his news only in print for two months. (NYT)The talk of the ad industry today: @DietMadisonAve, an anonymous Instagram account dedicated to exposing sexual harassment in the business. It has published names of alleged harassers and what they’ve been accused of, including men fired by agencies like Droga5 and Wieden & Kennedy.More from Sapna Maheshwari of the NYT:An operator of the account, communicating through private messages on Instagram, said it had shared 17 names of alleged harassers and had collected an additional 158 that it had not yet vetted. The person said the group vetted allegations before making them public.Critics, including women who work with agencies, say it’s trial by social media.Elsewhere in misconduct: Two directors at Wynn Resorts said they would step down in the wake of the Steve Wynn scandal. And the head of the U.S. Forest Service resigned amid sexual harassment accusations.His day job is head of Vista Equity Partners, one of the top-performing private equity firms. But Mr. Smith is also the wealthiest African-American around, with an extensive record of philanthropy, a topic that he spoke about to Forbes for its annual billionaires issue.From a statement he had prepared for his signing of the Giving Pledge:“We will only grasp the staggering potential of our time if we create onramps that empower ALL people to participate, regardless of background, country of origin, religious practice, gender, or color of skin.”The top 5 billionaires in this year’s list and their estimated net worth:• Jeff Bezos, $112 billion• Bill Gates, $90 billion• Warren Buffett, $84 billion• Bernard Arnault, $72 billion• Mark Zuckerberg, $71 billionWatch the billionaire investor Paul Tudor Jones sing backup on his daughter Caroline’s song “The Difference.” (He really hits the “ooh-wee.”)• The E.C.B. was expected to take a step away from crisis mode, but then Italy had an election. (NYT)Advertisement• Saudi Arabia’s crown prince and Britain’s prime minister agreed to an economic and investment partnership worth billions of dollars. London has been plastered with advertisements for Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman during his visit.• The rise of passive investing has attracted scrutiny to corporate governance advisory groups like I.S.S. and Glass Lewis. (FT)• Deutsche Bank is close to securing Nippon Life as a strategic investor in its asset management division, which it plans to float this month. (FT)• K.K.R. has agreed to buy a majority stake in Heartland Dental, the U.S.’s largest dental support organization. (WSJ)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of a chart with this briefing had an incorrect value for the long-term median difference. It is 1.24 percentage points, not 1.06 percentage points.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By NIKITA STEWART

APRIL 2, 2018

On April 3, 1968, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was not scheduled to speak at Mason Temple in Memphis. In town to help galvanize striking sanitation workers, Dr. King was asked at the last minute to speak at the church because a crowd of a few thousand people wanted to see him. It would be the great orator’s final speech.
Thank you very kindly, my friends. As I listened to Ralph Abernathy and his eloquent and generous introduction and then thought about myself, I wondered who he was talking about. It’s always good to have your closest friend and associate to say something good about you. And Ralph Abernathy is the best friend that I have in the world. I’m delighted to see each of you here tonight in spite of a storm warning. You reveal that you are determined to go on anyhow.
Something is happening in Memphis; something is happening in our world. And you know, if I were standing at the beginning of time, with the possibility of taking a kind of general and panoramic view of the whole of human history up to now, and the Almighty said to me, “Martin Luther King, which age would you like to live in?” I would take my mental flight by Egypt and I would watch God’s children in their magnificent trek from the dark dungeons of Egypt through, or rather across the Red Sea, through the wilderness on toward the promised land. And in spite of its magnificence, I wouldn’t stop there.

                
                I would move on by Greece and take my mind to Mount Olympus. And I would see Plato, Aristotle, Socrates, Euripides and Aristophanes assembled around the Parthenon. And I would watch them around the Parthenon as they discussed the great and eternal issues of reality. But I wouldn’t stop there.I would go on, even to the great heyday of the Roman Empire. And I would see developments around there, through various emperors and leaders. But I wouldn’t stop there.I would even come up to the day of the Renaissance, and get a quick picture of all that the Renaissance did for the cultural and aesthetic life of man. But I wouldn’t stop there.
I would even go by the way that the man for whom I am named had his habitat. And I would watch Martin Luther as he tacked his ninety-five theses on the door at the church of Wittenberg. But I wouldn’t stop there. I would come on up even to 1863, and watch a vacillating President by the name of Abraham Lincoln finally come to the conclusion that he had to sign the Emancipation Proclamation. But I wouldn’t stop there.

                
                I would even come up to the early thirties, and see a man grappling with the problems of the bankruptcy of his nation. And come with an eloquent cry that we have nothing to fear but “fear itself.” But I wouldn’t stop there. Strangely enough, I would turn to the Almighty, and say, “If you allow me to live just a few years in the second half of the 20th century, I will be happy.”Now that’s a strange statement to make, because the world is all messed up. The nation is sick. Trouble is in the land; confusion all around. That’s a strange statement. But I know, somehow, that only when it is dark enough can you see the stars. And I see God working in this period of the twentieth century in a way that men, in some strange way, are responding. Something is happening in our world. The masses of people are rising up. And wherever they are assembled today, whether they are in Johannesburg, South Africa; Nairobi, Kenya; Accra, Ghana; New York City; Atlanta, Georgia; Jackson, Mississippi; or Memphis, Tennessee—the cry is always the same: “We want to be free.”And another reason that I’m happy to live in this period is that we have been forced to a point where we are going to have to grapple with the problems that men have been trying to grapple with through history, but the demands didn’t force them to do it. Survival demands that we grapple with them. Men, for years now, have been talking about war and peace. But now, no longer can they just talk about it. It is no longer a choice between violence and nonviolence in this world; it’s nonviolence or nonexistence. That is where we are today.And also in the human rights revolution, if something isn’t done, and done in a hurry, to bring the colored peoples of the world out of their long years of poverty, their long years of hurt and neglect, the whole world is doomed. Now, I’m just happy that God has allowed me to live in this period to see what is unfolding. And I’m happy that He’s allowed me to be in Memphis.I can remember—I can remember when Negroes were just going around as Ralph has said, so often, scratching where they didn’t itch, and laughing when they were not tickled. But that day is all over. We mean business now, and we are determined to gain our rightful place in God’s world.And that’s all this whole thing is about. We aren’t engaged in any negative protest and in any negative arguments with anybody. We are saying that we are determined to be men. We are determined to be people. We are saying—We are saying that we are God’s children. And that we are God’s children, we don’t have to live like we are forced to live.Now, what does all of this mean in this great period of history? It means that we’ve got to stay together. 
                
                  
                  
                  We’ve got to stay together and maintain unity. You know, whenever Pharaoh wanted to prolong the period of slavery in Egypt, he had a favorite, favorite formula for doing it. What was that? He kept the slaves fighting among themselves. But whenever the slaves get together, something happens in Pharaoh’s court, and he cannot hold the slaves in slavery. When the slaves get together, that’s the beginning of getting out of slavery. Now let us maintain unity.
Secondly, let us keep the issues where they are. The issue is injustice. The issue is the refusal of Memphis to be fair and honest in its dealings with its public servants, who happen to be sanitation workers. Now, we’ve got to keep attention on that. That’s always the problem with a little violence. You know what happened the other day, and the press dealt only with the window-breaking. I read the articles. They very seldom got around to mentioning the fact that one thousand, three hundred sanitation workers are on strike, and that Memphis is not being fair to them, and that Mayor Loeb is in dire need of a doctor. They didn’t get around to that.Now we’re going to march again, and we’ve got to march again, in order to put the issue where it is supposed to be—and force everybody to see that there are thirteen hundred of God’s children here suffering, sometimes going hungry, going through dark and dreary nights wondering how this thing is going to come out. That’s the issue. And we’ve got to say to the nation: We know how it’s coming out. For when people get caught up with that which is right and they are willing to sacrifice for it, there is no stopping point short of victory. We aren’t going to let any mace stop us. We are masters in our nonviolent movement in disarming police forces; they don’t know what to do. I’ve seen them so often. 
                
                  
                  
                  I remember in Birmingham, Alabama, when we were in that majestic struggle there, we would move out of the 16th Street Baptist Church day after day; by the hundreds we would move out. And Bull Connor would tell them to send the dogs forth, and they did come; but we just went before the dogs singing, “Ain’t gonna let nobody turn me around.”
Bull Connor next would say, “Turn the fire hoses on.” And as I said to you the other night, Bull Connor didn’t know history. He knew a kind of physics that somehow didn’t relate to the transphysics that we knew about. And that was the fact that there was a certain kind of fire that no water could put out. And we went before the fire hoses; we had known water. If we were Baptist or some other denominations, we had been immersed. If we were Methodist, and some others, we had been sprinkled, but we knew water. That couldn’t stop us.And we just went on before the dogs and we would look at them; and we’d go on before the water hoses and we would look at it, and we’d just go on singing “Over my head I see freedom in the air.” And then we would be thrown in the paddy wagons, and sometimes we were stacked in there like sardines in a can. And they would throw us in, and old Bull would say, “Take ‘em off,” and they did; and we would just go in the paddy wagon singing, “We Shall Overcome.”And every now and then we’d get in jail, and we’d see the jailers looking through the windows being moved by our prayers, and being moved by our words and our songs. And there was a power there which Bull Connor couldn’t adjust to; and so we ended up transforming Bull into a steer, and we won our struggle in Birmingham. Now we’ve got to go on in Memphis just like that. I call upon you to be with us when we go out Monday.Now about injunctions: We have an injunction and we’re going into court tomorrow morning to fight this illegal, unconstitutional injunction. All we say to America is, “Be true to what you said on paper.” If I lived in China or even Russia, or any totalitarian country, maybe I could understand some of these illegal injunctions. Maybe I could understand the denial of certain basic First Amendment privileges, because they hadn’t committed themselves to that over there.But somewhere I read of the freedom of assembly. Somewhere I read of the freedom of speech.Somewhere I read of the freedom of press. Somewhere I read that the greatness of America is the right to protest for right. And so just as I say, we aren’t going to let dogs or water hoses turn us around, we aren’t going to let any injunction turn us around. We are going on.We need all of you. And you know what’s beautiful to me is to see all of these ministers of the Gospel. It’s a marvelous picture. Who is it that is supposed to articulate the longings and aspirations of the people more than the preacher? Somehow the preacher must have a kind of fire shut up in his bones. And whenever injustice is around he tell it. Somehow the preacher must be an Amos, and saith, “When God speaks who can but prophesy?” Again with Amos, “Let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream.” Somehow the preacher must say with Jesus, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me, and he’s anointed me to deal with the problems of the poor.”
And I want to commend the preachers, under the leadership of these noble men: James Lawson, one who has been in this struggle for many years; he’s been to jail for struggling; he’s been kicked out of Vanderbilt University for this struggle, but he’s still going on, fighting for the rights of his people. Reverend Ralph Jackson, Billy Kiles; I could just go right on down the list, but time will not permit.
But I want to thank all of them. And I want you to thank them, because so often, preachers aren’t concerned about anything but themselves. And I’m always happy to see a relevant ministry.It’s all right to talk about “long white robes over yonder,” in all of its symbolism. But ultimately people want some suits and dresses and shoes to wear down here! It’s all right to talk about ”streets flowing with milk and honey,” but God has commanded us to be concerned about the slums down here, and his children who can’t eat three square meals a day. It’s all right to talk about the new Jerusalem, but one day, God’s preacher must talk about the new New York, the new Atlanta, the new Philadelphia, the new Los Angeles, the new Memphis, Tennessee. This is what we have to do.Now the other thing we’ll have to do is this: Always anchor our external direct action with the power of economic withdrawal. Now, we are poor people. Individually, we are poor when you compare us with white society in America. We are poor. Never stop and forget that collectively—that means all of us together—collectively we are richer than all the nations in the world, with the exception of nine. Did you ever think about that?After you leave the United States, Soviet Russia, Great Britain, West Germany, France, and I could name the others, the American Negro collectively is richer than most nations of the world. We have an annual income of more than thirty billion dollars a year, which is more than all of the exports of the United States, and more than the national budget of Canada. Did you know that? That’s power right there, if we know how to pool it.We don’t have to argue with anybody. We don’t have to curse and go around acting bad with our words. We don’t need any bricks and bottles. We don’t need any Molotov cocktails. We just need to go around to these stores, and to these massive industries in our country, and say, “God sent us by here, to say to you that you’re not treating his children right. And we’ve come by here to ask you to make the first item on your agenda fair treatment, where God’s children are concerned.”“Now, if you are not prepared to do that, we do have an agenda that we must follow. And our agenda calls for withdrawing economic support from you.”And so, as a result of this, we are asking you tonight, to go out and tell your neighbors not to buy Coca-Cola in Memphis. Go by and tell them not to buy Sealtest milk.
                
                  
                  
                   Tell them not to buy—what is the other bread?—Wonder Bread. And what is the other bread company, Jesse? Tell them not to buy Hart’s bread. As Jesse Jackson has said, up to now, only the garbage men have been feeling pain; now we must kind of redistribute the pain.
We are choosing these companies because they haven’t been fair in their hiring policies; and we are choosing them because they can begin the process of saying they are going to support the needs and the rights of these men who are on strike. And then they can move on town—downtown and tell Mayor Loeb to do what is right.But not only that, we’ve got to strengthen black institutions. I call upon you to take your money out of the banks downtown and deposit your money in Tri-State Bank. We want a “bank-in” movement in Memphis. Go by the savings and loan association. I’m not asking you something that we don’t do ourselves at SCLC. 
                
                  
                  
                  Judge Hooks and others will tell you that we have an account here in the savings and loan association from the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.
We are telling you to follow what we are doing. Put your money there. You have six or seven black insurance companies here in the city of Memphis. Take out your insurance there. We want to have an “insurance-in.”Now these are some practical things that we can do. We begin the process of building a greater economic base. And at the same time, we are putting pressure where it really hurts. I ask you to follow through here.Now, let me say as I move to my conclusion that we’ve got to give ourselves to this struggle until the end.Nothing would be more tragic than to stop at this point in Memphis. We’ve got to see it through. And when we have our march, you need to be there. If it means leaving work, if it means leaving school—be there. Be concerned about your brother. You may not be on strike. But either we go up together, or we go down together.Let us develop a kind of dangerous unselfishness. One day a man came to Jesus, and he wanted to raise some questions about some vital matters of life. At points he wanted to trick Jesus, and show him that he knew a little more than Jesus knew and throw him off base.... Now that question could have easily ended up in a philosophical and theological debate. But Jesus immediately pulled that question from mid-air, and placed it on a dangerous curve between Jerusalem and Jericho. And he talked about a certain man, who fell among thieves. You remember that a Levite and a priest passed by on the other side.They didn’t stop to help him. And finally a man of another race came by. He got down from his beast, decided not to be compassionate by proxy. But he got down with him, administered first aid, and helped the man in need. Jesus ended up saying, this was the good man, this was the great man, because he had the capacity to project the “I” into the “thou,” and to be concerned about his brother.Now you know, we use our imagination a great deal to try to determine why the priest and the Levite didn’t stop. At times we say they were busy going to a church meeting, an ecclesiastical gathering, and they had to get on down to Jerusalem so they wouldn’t be late for their meeting. At other times we would speculate that there was a religious law that “One who was engaged in religious ceremonials was not to touch a human body twenty-four hours before the ceremony.” 
                
                  
                  
                  And every now and then we begin to wonder whether maybe they were not going down to Jerusalem—or down to Jericho, rather to organize a “Jericho Road Improvement Association.”
That’s a possibility. Maybe they felt that it was better to deal with the problem from the causal root, rather than to get bogged down with an individual effect.But I’m going to tell you what my imagination tells me. It’s possible that those men were afraid. You see, the Jericho road is a dangerous road. I remember when Mrs. King and I were first in Jerusalem. We rented a car and drove from Jerusalem down to Jericho. And as soon as we got on that road, I said to my wife, “I can see why Jesus used this as the setting for his parable.” It’s a winding, meandering road. It’s really conducive for ambushing. You start out in Jerusalem, which is about 1200 miles—or rather 1200 feet above sea level. And by the time you get down to Jericho, fifteen or twenty minutes later, you’re about 2200 feet below sea level. That’s a dangerous road. In the days of Jesus it came to be known as the “Bloody Pass.”And you know, it’s possible that the priest and the Levite looked over that man on the ground and wondered if the robbers were still around. Or it’s possible that they felt that the man on the ground was merely faking. And he was acting like he had been robbed and hurt, in order to seize them over there, lure them there for quick and easy seizure. And so the first question that the priest asked—the first question that the Levite asked was, “If I stop to help this man, what will happen to me?” But then the Good Samaritan came by. And he reversed the question: “If I do not stop to help this man, what will happen to him?”That’s the question before you tonight. Not, “If I stop to help the sanitation workers, what will happen to my job. Not, “If I stop to help the sanitation workers what will happen to all of the hours that I usually spend in my office every day and every week as a pastor?” The question is not, “If I stop to help this man in need, what will happen to me?” The question is, “If I do not stop to help the sanitation workers, what will happen to them?” That’s the question.Let us rise up tonight with a greater readiness. Let us stand with a greater determination. And let us move on in these powerful days, these days of challenge to make America what it ought to be. We have an opportunity to make America a better nation. And I want to thank God, once more, for allowing me to be here with you. You know, several years ago, I was in New York City autographing the first book that I had written. And while sitting there autographing books, a demented black woman came up.
The only question I heard from her was, “Are you Martin Luther King?” And I was looking down writing, and I said, “Yes.” And the next minute I felt something beating on my chest. Before I knew it I had been stabbed by this demented woman. I was rushed to Harlem Hospital. It was a dark Saturday afternoon. And that blade had gone through, and the X-rays revealed that the tip of the blade was on the edge of my aorta, the main artery. And once that’s punctured, your drowned in your own blood—that’s the end of you.
It came out in the New York Times the next morning, 
                
                  
                  
                  that if I had merely sneezed, I would have died. Well, about four days later, they allowed me, after the operation, after my chest had been opened, and the blade had been taken out, to move around in the wheel chair in the hospital.

                
                They allowed me to read some of the mail that came in, and from all over the states and the world, kind letters came in. I read a few, but one of them I will never forget. I had received one from the President and the Vice-President. I’ve forgotten what those telegrams said. I’d received a visit and a letter from the Governor of New York, but I’ve forgotten what that letter said. But there was another letter that came from a little girl, a young girl who was a student at the White Plains High School. And I looked at that letter, and I’ll never forget it. It said simply,“Dear Dr. King, I am a ninth-grade student at the White Plains High School.”And she said,
“While it should not matter, I would like to mention that I’m a white girl. I read in the paper of your misfortune, and of your suffering. And I read that if you had sneezed, you would have died. And I’m simply writing you to say that I’m so happy that you didn’t sneeze.”
And I want to say tonight—I want to say tonight that I too am happy that I didn’t sneeze. Because if I had sneezed, I wouldn’t have been around here in 1960, when students all over the South started sitting-in at lunch counters. And I knew that as they were sitting in, they were really standing up for the best in the American dream, and taking the whole nation back to those great wells of democracy which were dug deep by the Founding Fathers in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution.If I had sneezed, I wouldn’t have been around here in 1961, when we decided to take a ride for freedom and ended segregation in inter-state travel.
If I had sneezed, I wouldn’t have been around here in 1962, when Negroes in Albany, Georgia, decided to straighten their backs up. And whenever men and women straighten their backs up, they are going somewhere, because a man can’t ride your back unless it is bent.

                
                
If I had sneezed—If I had sneezed I wouldn’t have been here in 1963, when the black people of Birmingham, Alabama, aroused the conscience of this nation, and brought into being the Civil Rights Bill.
If I had sneezed, I wouldn’t have had a chance later that year, in August, to try to tell America about a dream that I had had.If I had sneezed, I wouldn’t have been down in Selma, Alabama, to see the great Movement there.If I had sneezed, I wouldn’t have been in Memphis to see a community rally around those brothers and sisters who are suffering.I’m so happy that I didn’t sneeze.And they were telling me—. Now, it doesn’t matter, now. It really doesn’t matter what happens now. I left Atlanta this morning, and as we got started on the plane, there were six of us.The pilot said over the public address system, “We are sorry for the delay, but we have Dr. Martin Luther King on the plane. And to be sure that all of the bags were checked, and to be sure that nothing would be wrong with on the plane, we had to check out everything carefully. And we’ve had the plane protected and guarded all night.”And then I got into Memphis. And some began to say the threats, or talk about the threats that were out. What would happen to me from some of our sick white brothers?Well, I don’t know what will happen now. We’ve got some difficult days ahead. But it really doesn’t matter with me now, because I’ve been to the mountaintop. And I don’t mind.Like anybody, I would like to live a long life. Longevity has its place. But I’m not concerned about that now. I just want to do God’s will. And He’s allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I’ve looked over. And I’ve seen the Promised Land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight, that we, as a people, will get to the promised land!And so I’m happy, tonight.I’m not worried about anything.I’m not fearing any man.Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord.Archives of The New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, Jet Magazine and “Bearing the Cross” by David J. Garrow.Jon Huang/The New York TimesAdvertisement

      By WES ENZINNA

MARCH 22, 2018

People generally believe hitching takes no particular know-how, but it takes a tremendous amount of skill to travel quickly, safely and in the right direction like Juan Villarino.
March 22, 2018March 22, 2018March 22, 2018March 22, 2018
By WES ENZINNAPhotographs by BRENT STIRTON
MARCH 22, 2018
Juan Villarino counts cars. If one passes him every minute, that’s excellent; one every five minutes, and he gets worried. One every 20 minutes, and he knows he’s really in the middle of nowhere. He once waited for two days in Tibet before a single car stopped; for 24 hours, on a frigid winter route, in Patagonia. Based on notes he keeps in pocket-size spiral journals, he compiles statistics, including average wait times in every country he has ever hitchhiked across, and the numbers aren’t what you would expect — which is, in part, why he collects them in the first place. As he noted in a “Guide to Hitchhiking,” a primer published in 2016 with his travel partner, Laura Lazzarino, the countries with the shortest average wait times are:Iraq: 7 minutesJordan: 9 minutesRomania: 12 minutesThe longest:Norway: 46 minutesAfghanistan: 47 minutesSweden: 51 minutesPeople generally believe hitchhiking takes no particular know-how; and it’s true that to catch one ride, you don’t need to do much but stand there. But when, like Villarino, you rely entirely on hitchhiking to traverse tremendous distances, there’s a great deal of skill involved to quickly and safely arrive at your destination. Villarino has cataloged every ride he has ever caught: 2,350, totaling about 100,000 miles in 90 countries, or enough to circumnavigate the globe four times. I met him on the final leg of his latest transcontinental journey, this one through Africa, about which he is writing a book with Lazzarino. For the 14 months before our meeting, Villarino had been thumbing it 20,000 miles along a route that included the Democratic Republic of Congo, where he skirted the country’s civil war, and Somaliland, where he was stoned by an angry mob and held at gunpoint by border guards after refusing to pay a bribe. My plan was to join him on his travels from central Namibia to Cape Town, South Africa, a route of about 1,000 miles, or roughly the distance from New York to Florida.NAMIBIALÜdertiz21345SouthAfricaAtlanticOcean6Capetown71: Luderitz; 2: Keetmanshoop; 3: Grünau; 4: Springbok; 5: Garies; 6: Paternoster; 7: Cape Town.Equal parts Don Quixote and Che Guevara, Villarino describes his peregrinations as protests not just against boredom but also against parochialism and even capitalism. “The 12-hour workday,” he wrote in an early manifesto, “is more dangerous than hitchhiking.” As a Latin American, from a downwardly mobile middle-class family — he watched his parents be crushed by those 12-hour days — he defies the old characterization of hitchers as “uptight, middle-class white people, imitating poverty,” as James Baldwin once famously put his pin in the Beats’ balloon. Villarino didn’t choose to be poor, but he did choose how to be poor, and for him, hitchhiking is less about simulating poverty than about chasing after the world he wants to live in. “The media shows images of the world that are worse than it actually is,” he said. “And it’s a feedback loop — those images make us think we’re actually worse than we really are. It’s a cycle of fear.”We were perched on Namibia’s B4 highway as it snaked toward a coastal town called Lüderitz. Around us, the desert unscrolled in every direction. Villarino wore a big grin slapped across his face — “an idiotic smile is the only weapon I carry” — the sun squeezing through the cracks of his squinted eyelids. Broadcasting his beaming optimism, he stuck his thumb out as if telling the world: Good job!For a modern-day hobo, he kept to a tight schedule: up at sunrise, out on the road by 8, when long-distance traffic is at its peak. He believes getting a ride or not — and doing so safely — is largely the responsibility of the hitchhiker. “You don’t catch a ride with your thumb,” he said, as we waited. “You catch it with a smile.”Before us was a bend in the road pocked with a huge, five-foot-wide pothole, which Villarino described as “perfect.” The ideal pickup spot, he explained, has not only a place for cars to pull over safely but also some obstacle or obstruction that forces them to slow down as they approach you. Standing just before or after a hill, or a train track, or a wye, a stoplight, a traffic circle, or even a speed bump would have worked just as well as our pothole. Villarino forbids hats and sunglasses because they hide your eyes from drivers; sitting is discouraged because it obscures your physical size. He intentionally dons the uniform of a backpacker — brown hiking boots with red laces, gray synthetic cargo pants that unzip at the knees — because people all around the world are familiar with that archetype.
This story is one of four extraordinary journeys published in the magazine's Voyages issue.Read the rest here:
The 70-Year-Old Master Kayaker
Looking for Mars on Earth
The World's Greatest Hitchhiker
The Search for Joshua Tree's Missing Hiker
A Yaris hatchback groaned up the road. Villarino’s gestures involve a deceptively complex process: After the driver makes eye contact, he pivots his left foot toward the car and subtly changes his hand signal from a thumbs-up to a pointing motion with his index finger in the direction he hopes to go, like the “Walk Like an Egyptian” dance. If the car still passes, Villarino smiles widely, all white teeth and dimples, so the driver might notice him in the rearview mirror and, seeing his genial countenance, decide to reconsider. Sometimes he folds his hands in prayer. It’s a performance designed to advance the conversation between hitchhiker and driver, to evolve the communication between strangers toward mutual trust. In reply, drivers make a swirling hand motion to say they’re just driving around locally; they point straight ahead to signal they’re not going very far; they put a fist into their palms and make a grinding motion to show they’re stopping up ahead. “A driver has less than three seconds to make a decision,” Villarino said. “And that decision is made in response to unconscious factors and subliminal communication.”Hitchhiking, he believes, is a form of dialogue, not a test of strength or stamina, and he contrasted it to other “extreme” activities like rock climbing or sky diving. “These activities stress independence,” he said, “but hitchhiking is about cooperation and dependence.”His techniques, which at first struck me as a little silly, paid off almost immediately. The Yaris passed, slowed down over the pothole, accelerated, and then the driver seemed to undergo a moral reckoning and pulled onto the shoulder and stopped. It was just the third car we’d seen. We had waited less than 10 minutes.“We don’t see many people like you guys around here,” the driver, Rita, said, after we climbed in.“Why not?” Villarino said, a flirtatious smile creeping across his face. He put his hand on Rita’s arm. “Because we’re so handsome?”Villarino gave in to the siren song of the highway after the collapse of the Argentine economy in 2001, when he was 23. His parents moved into a smaller apartment without room for him; inflation erased people’s life savings, and his friends protested and clashed with the police in the streets. Villarino, then a psychology student at the National University of Mar del Plata, about 200 miles outside of Buenos Aires, dropped out. “I realized that you could work your whole life for a house, a career,” he said, “and overnight it all could vanish.”In 2003, he moved to Belfast, where he worked in a cheese factory, as a security guard and as a bellhop, and sent remittances back to his parents. But after a couple of years, with $4,000 in savings, he made “the most important decision of my life” and set off on the trip that would form the basis of his first book, “Hitchhiking in the Axis of Evil.” On a budget of $5 a day, he recreated, loosely, the old Hippie Trail through Europe, Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India, with detours in Syria and Iraq. His quest through the Middle East was motivated not just by a desire to fulfill his fantasies but also by a sense of political provocation. Iraq and Afghanistan, he felt, had been unfairly maligned by the Bush administration and the international press, and the vilification of Arabs and Middle Easterners, he thought, was a handmaiden to United States imperialism. In Belfast, he had protested the Iraq War with some Irish socialist friends but felt as if it didn’t accomplish anything. Maybe he needed a grander gesture. “I travel to depict human goodness,” Villarino wrote, describing his motivations, “above all because I believe that in our time, portraying examples of hospitality has a political character.” Or as he told me: “Hitchhiking is a process of reconciliation between the haves and have-nots. I like to put myself in a position of powerlessness and see what happens.”At the border crossing into Afghanistan, he almost lost his nerve and turned back. After tamping down his fears and hitchhiking to Herat, the first large city across the border from Iran, he was given free lodging in a home and slept with a knife next to his pillow, just in case — he didn’t yet believe his own gospel about the kindness of strangers. The following morning, he was ashamed to find that the hosts he feared might kidnap him had instead cooked him breakfast. He next hitched a ride straight through Taliban territory with an Indian contractor who, Villarino later learned, would himself be abducted and murdered by militants. “Obviously I know perfectly well that there are debased people everywhere, victims, killers, people who ruminate on the hatred that the system produces,” he writes. But he made it to Kabul without incident and found that, even in Afghanistan, just as in Iran and Iraq and Syria and Turkey, strangers invariably “support you, they give you lodging, they get behind you and give you what you do not have, because they feel that it is necessary that you continue doing what you are doing, precisely because of the quixotic nature of the quest and perhaps sometimes because they feel your dream is also theirs.”When he finished his trip, he rented a cheap room in Chiang Mai, Thailand — sharing it with an entire circus troop — and wrote a draft of the book, which he sold to a mainstream Spanish-language publishing house. “Hitchhiking in the Axis of Evil” made him a cult celebrity in Argentina. He would walk into bars peddling pirated copies of his new best seller for $5, ripping off his own publishers. In hostels, he stumbled on copies of the book, left by travelers and inscribed with dozens of testimonials from people who had been inspired to quit their jobs and hitchhike around the world. In Buenos Aires, three men tried to mug him, but when they realized who he was, the thieves gave him money. “Hitchhiking is dangerous,” one said, before slinking off. “Be careful!”Soon, Villarino set out on a journey for his next book, “Invisible Routes,” an attempt to hitch the length of the Americas, from Antarctica to the Arctic. At an internet cafe in Jáchal, Argentina, he received an email that caught his attention. He always hoped he would find a “wandering princess,” and he had a premonition that this fan, Laura Lazzarino, a 24-year-old travel agent from Rosario, Argentina, might be her. After a passionate exchange, Villarino proposed they travel to the village of Alemania, where, while hitchhiking as a 24-year-old college dropout, he had first dreamed of “becoming a nomad.” He would teach Lazzarino to hitchhike; she would provide him some much-needed companionship.Villarino didn’t tell her at the time, but he had always feared the wages of nomadism were bachelorhood and loneliness, that “suffering is punishment for hedonism.” And she didn’t tell him that she had already decided to run away. Not long before writing him, she had shown up to work one day to discover the owners had shuttered the shop and disappeared with the back pay they owed her. Soon after that, someone recommended “Hitchhiking in the Axis of Evil,” and she bought it the same day. By the second page, she was in tears. “If he felt that way and I found it in a book,” she would later write, “then I must not be the only one with unease about the world that went beyond adolescent capriciousness. If there were others like me, then I wasn’t alone.”By their third day together, they’d fallen in love. They hatched a plan: Villarino would break his contract for “Invisible Routes,” and they would instead write the book together as a quatre mains and self-publish it, which Lazzarino believed (correctly) would be more profitable. They spent the next 18 months hitchhiking through the Americas. They were robbed and slept on the streets when no strangers opened their homes to them, but Lazzarino finally felt free. “I had, I’m not going to deny it, the illusion that I was the star of a movie,” she wrote about meeting Villarino in “Invisible Routes” when it was published in 2014 by the publishing house they founded. The pair sold 6,000 copies in the first few months, and they’ve made enough money from book sales to finance their travels indefinitely.They have been hitchhiking together ever since, and Lazzarino’s blog, Los Viajes de Nena, devoted largely to the peculiarities of life on the road as a female, today has about 100,000 followers, narrowly eclipsing the readership on Villarino’s site, Acróbata del Camino. The blogs bring in advertising dollars, and they recently earned $3,000 each for starring in an online commercial for the Colombian airline Avianca. They continue to live on about $7 a day each and travel as they always have, leading a life almost entirely on the highway, without a fixed address or jobs or bills. Lazzarino had been taking a brief respite from their African journey and was going to meet Villarino at the South African border. Barring disaster, they would ride together into Cape Town, the final destination in their 15-month trek.“You slept in a location?” said a man named George, after we boarded his 50-ton semi. We were three days into our trip, having hitched 12 rides, covering about 300 miles. The night before meeting George, we slept in a town called Grünau, in a formerly segregated shantytown, or what Namibians call a “location.” It was a bleak place to pass the evening, with biting dogs and passers-by warning us to be careful not to get stabbed, but Villarino couldn’t have been happier. “What could be better than this?” he told me after we pitched our tent in a woman’s dirt yard.George thought just about anything would have been better than that, and he wondered aloud where Villarino “got the guts to do what you do.” The 23-year-old grandson of Scottish immigrants, George was our first white driver. He’d worked a few summers near Duluth, Minn. “That’s dangerous, man.”As we rattled south, the desert gave way to grape and wheat fields, and black thorn and bird plum trees replaced central Namibia’s alien dunes. Without prompting, George said he was considering moving to Ireland, but he was afraid, because he had no idea where to start or how to make such a move. Villarino calls drivers’ tendency to confess secrets or fears the taxicab effect: Once a soldier in Turkey revealed that he’d lived his whole life as a closeted gay man; in Colombia, a father took Villarino and Lazzarino to visit his two secret families, and then invited them to dinner at his wife’s house, who knew nothing of the mistresses or other children.“How do you get a job?” George asked. “An apartment? How do you just go and do all that? You can’t just arrive with nothing.”“Think about the bravery of your ancestors,” Villarino said. “They came from Scotland to here. Think about the bravery and uncertainty that took. You’d be paying them homage by moving to Ireland.”“Wow,” George said, a look of revelation on his face. “I’d never thought of it like that before.” Perhaps he was just swept up in the moment, but he swore to us that he was going to do it.George dropped us off at a Wimpy’s restaurant and gas station about three-quarters of a mile from the crossing into South Africa. We went inside to eat a burger. In three days I’d spent less than $5, and I was happy to splurge. At the entrance, an old mixed-race Namibian asked where we were going. When we told him, he warned us. “Be careful with your stuff,” he said. “There are lots of gangsters in South Africa.”Villarino relishes crossing borders on foot. As a result, his mental map of the world, he says, isn’t a disparate set of unconnected places whose boundaries and textures begin at airports or bus stations or ports; the world is one quilt, the seams of each country stitched together at the edges and touching, as one social fabric gives way to another. But transitions can sometimes cause trouble. Between Somaliland and Djibouti, border guards tried to extort the couple for $60 and pointed AK-47s at them, so Villarino and Lazzarino pitched their tent in no-man’s land and said, “O.K., we’ll just stay here.” On the Malawi-Tanzania border, a money-changer tried to take half their money before Villarino snatched his cellphone and held it as ransom. Once, after being denied passage from Chile back into Argentina, a border guard pointed at a list of restrictions on the office wall and said, “Sorry, these are our rules.” Villarino slammed a copy of “Hitchhiking in the Axis of Evil” on the official’s desk and said, “These are my rules!”We walked into the Namibian immigration office to get an exit stamp. “How will you get to your destination?” the uniformed woman asked.“I’m going to find a ride,” Villarino said.She looked perplexed, holding her stamp over his passport and glaring at him.“I mean, I’m going to take public transport,” he said.She smiled and stamped the passport.“Country No.85,” Villarino said.At the time of our visit, South Africa was strained with tension: The since-deposed president, Jacob Zuma, had threatened to expropriate white-owned farms for use by impoverished blacks, which sparked outrage among some landowners. Standard & Poor’s had just downgraded the country’s credit rating to “junk” status. There were an astronomical 52 murders per day — a murder rate six times as high as that in the United States. Especially inauspicious for us was a common tactic by highway robbers to pretend to be distressed on a roadway only to then kill good Samaritans and steal their cars. None of this was apparent to us as we walked out of the immigration office and into the country. Villarino smiled as he strolled down this ribbon of virgin highway.“Mi amor!” Lazzarino called out when she saw us. “I thought you’d never make it.” She was standing on a glittering patch of asphalt and had already arranged a ride — a Namibian farmer named Margaret, who was driving into the South African interior in order to sell some equipment for scrap metal. “It’s my day to be a saint,” Margaret said, congratulating herself as we crammed our bodies and packs into her Toyota S.U.V., which idled on the side of the road. Juan, clearly exhausted, as was I, let Lazzarino do the talking; they held hands, and Villarino drifted off to sleep.Lazzarino cuts the image less of a hobo than of a stylish spring-breaker. She dresses in khaki shorts and tank tops, and her eyes are soft and smoky, her coal-black hair lassoed by a calico scarf. Her prettiness can be a liability, but more often it’s an asset: It helps them get rides, and to many drivers, who often go to extraordinary lengths to help her and Villarino, she’s even more perplexing and intriguing than he is — a female hitchhiker? In Africa? It echoes one of the general paradoxes of hitchhiking, which is also a paradox of romance: The less desperate and needy you seem, the more likely you are to be picked up, and thus the people who probably need a ride the most are the least likely to get one.“Do you think there’s a big difference being a woman traveling?” Margaret said, touching Lazzarino’s leg as she spoke.“You have to be more careful,” Lazzarino said. “There are things you don’t do alone: sleep in cabs with truckers, take rides from large groups of men.” Lazzarino is more candid about danger than Villarino, and her experiences in Africa emboldened her to be slightly more forthcoming about her fears. After she was sexually assaulted by a cabdriver near Alexandria in Egypt — Villarino ran the assailant off — she found herself reflexively covering her crotch with her hands in public. She has never written about the actual attack or its lingering trauma, though she spoke candidly about it with me, and it prompted her to write a moving essay, “We Aren’t Unbreakable,” on her blog. “I’m afraid of traveling, I’m afraid of thinking, I’m afraid of writing, I’m afraid of saying what I feel,” she wrote. “I knew Africa was going to be difficult, but I didn’t think it would be that difficult.”We pulled off the highway and dropped down a valley into the town of Springbok. “It’s the end of the month,” Margaret said, nodding toward the town’s main street, which was knotted with men and women and children, carrying baskets on their heads, shopping at markets. “These people got their government assistance today. The blacks. They don’t like to work.”It wasn’t the first racist thing Margaret had said, and after she dropped us off — with the parting wisdom that we would have a fine time in South Africa “as long as we didn’t catch a ride with any blacks” — I asked Villarino why he didn’t do more to try to change Margaret’s mind. We had, after all, been given far more rides by black drivers than white ones. “The road isn’t the place to demonstrate your politics,” he replied, a little defensively.I understood how silence could be a survival skill, but still, it seemed to me like a position of convenience more than principle. In both their writings and their conversations, the couple seemed to skirt some of the most difficult issues raised by their type of travel, especially the way their freedom to roam might be predicated not only on fearlessness and skill but also on precisely the sort of prejudices they claim to want to repudiate. If successful hitchhiking is all about communicating and signaling and trust, I wondered, what did it mean that the greatest signal you could communicate, at least in a place like South Africa — your skin color — was one you couldn’t change? And how did that complicate the story Villarino and Lazzarino told about the kindness of strangers?This question would come up again, and more pointedly, on a different day in South Africa as we tried to catch a ride near two black hitchhikers. By this point we were exhausted after a string of bad luck and long waits, and I thought the presence of other hitchhikers meant we had found a good, time-tested spot. Villarino disagreed. “We never stand near locals,” he said, before shooing one of the men away and telling him, “You know, it’s really hard for us to get a ride with you standing there.”Villarino’s logic made sense: Any driver who would pick up a black working-class person would almost certainly not pick up a white foreigner, and the reverse was also probably true. But still, telling the guy to take a hike felt cynical. The discomfort of it all reached a climax when a German couple in a silver Subaru S.U.V. literally swerved around the black hitchers in order to offer us a ride. As we sped away, I realized Villarino’s strategy had been totally right, but the whole transaction still felt wrong.Or maybe, Villarino and Lazzarino were just realists, which only seemed so odd because of the idealistic premise of their mission. They did their best to balance their dream against the demands of reality and accepted when they had to be shrewd, even cunning, to reach their destination. The circumstances demanded it. Namibia ranked near the top of Villarino’s “Best Places to Hitchhike” list, but South Africa would turn out to rank near the bottom.That day in Springbok after Margaret dropped us off, for example, no one picked us up. We were stranded. The apologetic smiles and hand motions of Namibians were replaced by drivers with empty passenger seats or empty truck beds gritting their teeth and pretending not to see us. White, black, everyone ignored us, except for a few people who jeered.“We should not look like threats to them,” Villarino said, “but in the process of becoming fearful, they may have just gotten selfish.”There were other moments like this in our journey. Excruciating waits, tense exchanges, cruel indifference. One day, when traveling alone, I got marooned on a country back road in 95-degree weather and, dozens of miles from the nearest town, ran out of water. Even a cop passed me without stopping to help. Another time, a driver asked for money and slammed the door in my face when I said I was hitchhiking. We experienced real flashes of fear too, like when a driver aggressively confronted us, mistakenly thinking we intended to carjack him. And yet salvation always arrived, in one vehicle or another, sometimes in startling fashion: A white supremacist who took me far out of his way and then bought me dinner; a vineyard caretaker who let us sleep amid his grape vines; a carload of drunken men, one of whom told me, “I hate white people — but I love you.” Villarino likes to say that if people treated their neighbors the way they treat strangers, there would be world peace, and I had to admit, maybe he was on to something.We finally got out of Springbok too. It took two days. After failing to get a ride that first night, we pitched our tent on a rugby field in town, and in the morning, after another several hours waiting with our thumbs out, a white driver and black passenger in a little hatchback, both men drinking beers for breakfast, took pity on us.The driver, Abrey, didn’t explain away the unkindness that we experienced — the racial tension, the dagger stares, the squinted glares — but in a way, he didn’t have to. Here he was, a white man and his black friend sharing Saturday cocktails and listening to R.& B. on the radio. This one little car ride instantly redeemed us and rejuvenated us, offering an almost irrational hope for what lay ahead on the road. This, I realized, was the real magic of hitchhiking: not how it supposedly affirmed your faith in the goodness of humanity, but how it could make and break that faith, over and over again, often multiple times in a single day. For someone who likes to wager on existential matters — are people good or bad? — I suddenly grasped how the constant daily gamble it demanded could be so addicting, even if for most people, myself included, it was an exhausting game to play, and one in which the stakes seemed, simultaneously, a little too low and a little too high for all the effort required.“We’re writing a book about the kindness of strangers,” Villarino told Abrey, after he gave him his standard spiel about traveling from Cairo to Cape Town. Villarino and Lazzarino held hands in the back seat beside me as they puttered toward their destinies.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.Wes Enzinna is a senior editor at Mother Jones, and his reportage and essays have appeared in Harper’s Magazine, London Review of Books and elsewhere. He last wrote for the magazine about working as a teacher in Rojava, the Kurdish-controlled enclave in northern Syria. Brent Stirton is a South African photographer who works as a special correspondent for Getty Images. He last photographed celebrity elephants for the magazine.March 22, 2018March 22, 2018March 22, 2018AdvertisementAs the list of endangered animals worldwide grows longer, society may soon be faced with an impossible decision: which ones to take off life support.By JENNIFER KAHNMARCH 13, 2018
One day last spring, Lisa Crampton stood at the base of a tall ohia tree, deep in the forested interior of Kauai. That morning, Crampton and five other field biologists had spent two hours hiking to a narrow clearing, where a hovering helicopter airdropped a large aluminum ladder. Although the distance from the clearing to the tree was comparatively short, it took the team most of the morning to maneuver the ladder across a stream, through the brush and up a steep slope. During that time, it also started to rain.Ohia trees are tall and spindly, with a flowering red crown that spreads out in twiggy filaments. The object of the team’s efforts was a scraggly nest, about two inches wide, that was gusting around at the end of a branch four stories overhead. Peering up at it, Crampton frowned. “It’s pretty high up,” she said. “Do you think we can get the ladder close enough on this slope?”The nest belonged to an akikiki, a small gray-and-white bird that feeds on insects, doesn’t sing much and has noticeably large feet. As head of the Kauai Forest Bird Recovery Project, Crampton is tasked with saving the akikiki, along with the rest of the island’s endangered birds. Even by conservation standards, this can be dispiriting work. Of Kauai’s eight remaining native forest birds, four are listed as endangered or threatened, including a honeycreeper so rare that researchers have managed to find just 14 of its eggs in three years, of which only four have survived.When Crampton took over the program, in 2010, it was focused on protecting a reclusive bird known as the small Kauai thrush, which had been on the verge of extinction for years. Not long after she arrived, though, the situation changed. While thrush numbers were up, thanks in part to a successful captive-breeding program, the number of akikiki had plummeted. “The surveys weren’t picking up any akikiki,” Crampton told me, “like, none.”AdvertisementBecause akikiki numbers dropped so rapidly — the population is estimated to have fallen by 83 percent in 10 years, thanks to a combination of avian malaria and invasive rats, leaving just 468 birds — the government approved a plan to start a captive-breeding program in 2015, using eggs harvested from nests in the wild. (When akikiki lose their eggs, they typically lay a second clutch, keeping population numbers stable.) Mandy Peterson, who has a master’s degree in ecology and is doing fieldwork with the recovery project, told me about a prop Crampton’s team often takes to island schools: a pint glass filled with 500 synthetic akikiki eggs, each the size of a small gumball. “We show them: This is what 500 birds look like. This is every bird that still exists.”Under the rules of the Endangered Species Act, once a species is discovered to be at risk of extinction, government agencies are required by law to take steps to save it. For years, critics have challenged that mandate, arguing that it undercuts the ability to weigh a species’ value or to consider the economic impact of its preservation — for instance, the cost of prohibiting logging in a valuable tract of forest. Since Donald Trump took office, these objections have gained ground; there are currently six bills pending in Congress, all aimed at overhauling (some would say gutting) the Endangered Species Act.For Crampton, these political developments have been alarming but also comparatively remote, at least relative to her immediate problem: getting a pair of extremely fragile eggs out of a tightly built nest at the very top of the tree canopy. This process can take up to two days, given the ruggedness of the akikiki’s habitat, a remote area known as the Alakai Swamp. That morning, after some discussion, Crampton and the team chose a spot on a 45-degree slope almost directly below the nest, and cautiously began to erect the ladder: a free-standing spire with thin, round rungs that was balanced at a precise angle and then secured with ropes lashed to the surrounding trees.Until recently, the Alakai held the title of the wettest place on Earth, with one to two inches of rain a day (it was eclipsed by a village in far eastern India), and the terrain is almost impossibly steep: a welter of accordion-fold ridges and deep, narrow canyons, all running with water. Because there are no trails, researchers often have to bushwhack for miles in search of nests, wading up knee-deep streams or descending knife-edge slopes spongy with deadfall and slippery with mud. In part because the terrain is so punishing, Crampton estimates that it takes roughly 130 person-hours to recover a single pair of eggs, which must then be hiked out in a heated container and flown to a special incubation facility, where the eggs will be hatched and the chicks hand-raised by specialists from the San Diego Zoo. (So far, this process has produced 39 birds, who will be bred in captivity to create a reservoir population.)AdvertisementSaving a species becomes substantially harder the closer it gets to extinction, and the argument for preserving the akikiki may seem particularly tenuous. Though the akikiki perform various environmental functions, like eating insects off tree branches, they don’t appear to play a crucial role in the Alakai ecosystem. And because akikiki retreated to the highlands several decades ago and weren’t particularly noticeable in the first place, it’s hard to argue that their loss impoverishes our experience of the world. Even Crampton admitted that a majority of Hawaii residents probably haven’t noticed the bird’s disappearance, while tourists tend to assume that the island’s brightly colored tropical birds (the Mexican redheaded parrot and the Indian tricolor munia, for example) are indigenous.One arguably legitimate criticism of the Endangered Species Act is that trying to save every creature is both unrealistic and inefficient. Because the act requires that we help all species at risk of extinction, the argument goes, agencies end up spending vital resources on less-important species, rather than concentrating on the most critical ones. Assigning value to species is a nearly impossible undertaking, because it involves a bewildering number of variables, including ecological importance, utility (coral reefs can act as breakwaters during coastal storms), the species’ place in our heritage, even its beauty or symbolism. Conservation has no formula for weighting these factors, either alone or in combination, and it’s hard to imagine one that people could agree on. How do we decide whether the wolf or the snow leopard is more valuable?In response, some conservation groups have argued that we should put our efforts toward saving the most genetically diverse species, with the goal of increasing our long-term ecological resiliency. (In this view, saving the akikiki, which is one of 18 living species of Hawaiian honeycreeper, would be a low priority.) Others have suggested prioritizing “functional diversity”: the preservation of key species, like predators and pollinators, whose presence can radically affect an ecosystem.All of which makes the akikiki a complicated case in point: In the face of growing political and environmental pressures, how should we decide what to save?Of the 1,280 endangered animals and plants listed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 557 are from Hawaii, including the short-tailed albatross, the Hawaiian hoary bat and the Kauai cave wolf spider, as well as four species of turtle, six damselflies, two varieties of pond shrimp, four snails and seven kinds of yellow-faced bee. Conservationists have called the islands “the extinction capital of the world.”This is true in part because Hawaii is a tropical paradise so fertile that seeds from a foreign plant can spread to blanket the island in the space of a few years. When the islands were new bits of volcanic rock in the middle of a vast ocean, this fertility worked in species’ favor, allowing them to diversify, Galapagos-style, into dozens of discrete niches, with few competitive pressures. In the last hundred years, though, those same factors have become a liability. Hawaii’s tropical weather and location as a Pacific trade and tourism hub have made it a kind of petri dish for invasive species, which arrive from nearly every continent and multiply extravagantly. On the Big Island, mongoose have proliferated, devastating local bird populations; so have Puerto Rican coquí frogs, which chirp abruptly and erratically at 90 decibels, like a mobile infestation of alarm clocks. Cases of rat lungworm have risen sharply over the past five years, driven first by the arrival of the lungworm parasite, from Southeast Asia, followed by the spread of a nonnative slug that carries the disease. Kauai, meanwhile, is plagued by feral pigs, rose-ringed parakeets and a new invasive seaweed that arrived either in ballast water or in the dumped contents of aquarium tanks and that has begun to smother the island’s reef ecosystem. Since 1992, when a hurricane knocked over chicken coops, the island has also been overrun by roving bands of roosters and chickens; on my first day in Lihue, I saw dozens of them, many trailing hordes of chicks.Faced with these cosmopolitan arrivals, island species can seem like the wildlife equivalent of a naïve Midwesterner asking a guy in Times Square to hold his wallet. Native trees and plants have often lost their defenses — the islands have stingless nettles and thornless raspberries — and in many cases grow more slowly, making them easy marks for more aggressive species like miconia, a flowering plant from Central America that grows like a weed, produces thousands of seeds and shades out everything in its vicinity. Native animals and birds don’t fare much better. “We have a seabird, the Laysan albatross, that nests on the ground,” said Joshua Fisher, a biologist with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. “A rat or a cat or a mongoose can literally walk right up to it and start eating its eggs. The birds just don’t know what to do.”And once nonnative species do begin to take over, stopping them can be a Sisyphean task. One invasive fungus that kills ohia trees can spread just from the quantity of dirt trapped in the tread of a sneaker. (To combat this, Hawaii has asked hikers to scrub their boots with alcohol or a bleach solution.) A recent study at Kahului Airport on Maui found an average of one new insect species arriving every day. In the Alakai and elsewhere, these pressures have steadily squeezed out native species, at the same time as development has left them with less land to occupy. On top of that, even when an endangered animal survives in captivity, it often can’t be reintroduced to the wild without falling victim to the same factors that drove it toward extinction in the first place.AdvertisementAs a result, our role as stewards of the earth is becoming more and more like that of doctors in a global intensive-care unit, trapped in a cycle of heroic, end-of-life measures. Many conservationists now operate in a state of constant maintenance: endlessly working to weed out invasive plants and predators, while trying to prop up species that have fallen into decline. At worst, an endangered animal becomes a literal ward of the state: preserved only in breeding facilities or in tiny, meticulously maintained “wild” habitats. “They’re like patients that are never going to be discharged from the hospital,” the environmental writer Emma Marris told me. “It’s a permanent situation.”The official term for such species is “conservation-reliant.” When I spoke with Michael Scott, a wildlife biologist at the University of Idaho who helped direct the California condor research effort, he estimated that roughly 84 percent of species on the United States endangered list are currently conservation-reliant. Of those, he added, a vast majority are in Hawaii. “Hawaii is the world capital of conservation-reliant species,” Scott said.It’s not surprising that, at least initially, an endangered species would survive only with outside help. Where things get more complicated is when that care becomes perpetual. Proponents of the Endangered Species Act like to point to its efficacy: of all the species listed since 1973, 99 percent are still around. The flip side, critics observe, is that only 1 percent of those species have been sufficiently rehabilitated to leave the list.But while conservation might benefit from a nuanced discussion of how best to allocate resources around vanishing species, a far more sweeping set of proposals has recently been put forward by elected officials hoping to take advantage of the Trump administration’s willingness to weaken the environmental protections afforded by the Endangered Species Act. One bill, proposed by Pete Olson, a Republican congressman from Texas, would require a financial accounting before a species could be listed as threatened, ostensibly to prevent overspending but in practice giving local and federal governments a way to thwart new listings, especially those that might conflict with business interests like ranching, logging and development. Another, sponsored by Dan Newhouse, a Republican congressman from Washington, would change the criteria used to determine whether a species is endangered by expanding the definition of “best available” science to include studies conducted by local governments — a practice that Nora Apter at the Natural Resources Defense Council has described as “undermining the scientific listing process” by giving equal weight to potentially shoddy or biased studies.“Behind closed doors, I think most conservationists would agree that some judicious modifications to the act could improve the situation,” Chris Costello, a resource economist at the University of California, Santa Barbara, says. But, he adds, “there’s also a real and legitimate concern that if you open the E.S.A. up to economic criteria, it will almost immediately become much weaker. Without that mandate, it’s very hard to generate the political will to save species.”Political maneuvering around the Endangered Species Act isn’t particularly new. Since the late 1980s, critics have argued that the act limits industry and also hurts ranchers and loggers, for instance, by preventing ranchers from shooting wolves that prey on their livestock (a prohibition that has now largely been repealed). In 2008, an investigative report by The Washington Post concluded that the Bush administration managed to limit the species eligible for protection by erecting “pervasive bureaucratic obstacles” — for instance, by preventing Department of the Interior officials from using information in agency files that might support new listings.What makes the current set of proposed bills different, Apter and others say, isn’t their content but the current political environment — a sympathetic president and a Republican-controlled House and Senate — which makes them more likely to succeed. The real purpose of the bills, opponents argue, is to create business-friendly loopholes that would drastically undermine the protections of the original law, not least because one of the biggest impacts of the act isn’t the resuscitation of an individual species but the other benefits that effort brings. According to the act, protecting a species also means preserving its habitat, a provision that inevitably helps the vast number of plants and animal that happen to occupy the same ecosystem. (A fence built to keep invasive wild pigs out of the akikiki’s breeding area, for instance, will also help protect dozens of native plants and trees, including the ohia, because it will stop the pigs from spreading invasive seeds in their feces.)“They’re basically trying to steamroll it,” Apter told me. She said that at least one bill was also trying to make the listing requirements for endangered species more elaborate, further hobbling a process — data gathering, scientific assessment and priority and practicality evaluation — that is already backlogged. (The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service puts the number of potentially at-risk species waiting review at 550.)AdvertisementWhen I mentioned this concern to Paul Ferraro, an economist at Johns Hopkins University, he acknowledged the danger posed to the Endangered Species Act by the current bills. But he also noted that, at a purely economic level, some trade-offs will be inevitable. “The fact is that when you spend resources on one species, you by definition are not spending them on another,” Ferraro said. “In the end, you can’t get away from putting values on species.”Before I joined Crampton and Michelle Clark, a biologist from the Pacific Islands Fish and Wildlife Office, at the Lihue heliport for the 15-minute flight into the interior, Crampton warned me that journalists tend to underestimate the Alakai. She recalled how one photographer, who had planned to spend a full week with the team, made it just a few hundred yards before giving up; she spent the remainder of the day at the field camp. Another visitor, who regularly hiked the Sierra Nevada, was flown out after less than 24 hours. “I guess she was used to pine trees or something,” Crampton told me. “And trails.”By the time I arrived in late May, the team had spent the past three months rotating in and out of a muddy field camp consisting of a single large tent with four cots, a Coleman stove, a laminated map and several musty plastic ration tubs. With the season winding down, the team that week consisted of just two people: Mandy Peterson and Marcus Collado, a wildlife biologist from Maine who was easygoing but prone to turning morose. Crampton called his bleaker comments “Marcus musings.”Before coming to Kauai, Collado worked banding golden-eagle chicks, a task that required him to stand on the skid of a helicopter as it flew, then jump from the skid to the cliff-face ledge where an eagle had nested. By comparison, harvesting eggs in the Alakai qualified as a relaxing vacation, though Collado noted that “it can get a little sad” because akikiki are so scarce. “In the job interview, they warn you: ‘You may not see any birds or find any nests,’ ” Collado told me. “And I thought, Man, this could be tough.”When the akikiki’s steep decline was discovered in 2012, the Fish and Wildlife Service convened a panel of experts to determine what, if anything, should be done to stave off extinction. After three days of debate, the group agreed to a set of interventions, including the construction of an eight-foot-tall, five-mile-long, pig-proof fence, and the installation of what would eventually be 300 reusable rat traps, each of which to be hand-placed in key areas and stocked with bait, to keep nonnative rats from eating the birds’ eggs, their chicks and sometimes even the birds themselves, usually when a bird refused to abandon its nest.People tend to go into conservation biology to save species, but in practice, the job can be more about killing things. The camp keeps two binders for logging information. One is devoted to akikiki sightings and nests. Another tracks rat kills and is labeled “Charlie work,” a reference to the TV show “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia,” in which a character named Charlie is regularly dispatched to kill rats. When I pointed out that the rat binder was almost four times thicker than the bird binder, Peterson shrugged. “We do a lot of rat killing. We probably kill more rats than we find birds.”Either way, the work can be wearing. Earlier this season, the camp started keeping a dream journal, which ended up doubling as a kind of anxiety log. A few weeks back, Collado said, he had a dream in which he saw the last surviving akikiki drowning in a canal. He raced to save it but arrived too late. Not long after that, Peterson dreamed that she saw an akikiki made of Legos and knew, in that moment, that all the real akikiki had died.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I joined Collado and Clark one morning when they went to check on an akikiki nest in a valley known as Far Quarter, about two hours from camp. At a previous job on Mono Lake, the associate director of the Kauai Forest Bird Recovery Project, Justin Hite, worked with a biologist who gave colorful names to the lake’s islets — Little Norway, Little Tahiti — and in the Alakai, Hite carried on the tradition. A sharp-edged stretch became Titanic Ridge (“I’m on top of the world!”). An area that shone with a rare forest rainbow was called Unicorn Paradise. One particularly inaccessible stretch became the Chasm of Doom, but when this nickname led field teams to avoid the area, it was rechristened Kasmadu.That day, the forest had a sleepy feel. Clark stopped to admire a tiny, lacy fern known as lady of the mountain; later, she pointed out another, larger fern covered in soft brown hairs, which were once collected to make mattresses. Surprisingly, there was almost no bird song and not even much in the way of insects, just the occasional drone of a helicopter. (Though tourist helicopters aren’t supposed to fly that low over the Alakai, Clark told me, some still do.)AdvertisementBy the time we got to the site, it was almost midday and hot. Because the team had already harvested eggs from this pair of birds, Collado’s task was to see whether the new clutch had hatched and, if so, to find out how many of the chicks survived. Sitting on the stream bank, Collado used athletic tape to lash a GoPro video camera to the top of a collapsible 30-foot aluminum pole. Fully extended, the pole had an alarming sway; maneuvering it close enough to see inside a nest, without hitting the nest itself, was a heart-stopping project.That morning, though, the main problem was getting the camera high enough; even held directly overhead, the pole was almost 10 feet too short. Peering around, Collado considered the landscape. “Justin wasn’t kidding when he said it was nearly impossible to check this nest,” he said. Spotting some scuff marks on a dead ohia tree, he began to shinny up. “I know Justin managed it somehow,” he added. “But I’ve also seen him fall a lot. He does sketchy stuff that the rest of us won’t.”Once he managed to climb about 10 feet, Collado asked Clark to hand him the pole, which he carefully levered into the canopy, only to find that the view was blocked by leaves. For the next 20 minutes, Collado patiently worked the camera closer, while Clark watched the video feed on her phone. Finally, a blurry image of a small gray bird came into view. “There she is!” Clark said excitedly. Peering at the screen, I saw a small, disgruntled-looking bird with a slim tail and a tiny patch of white over its eye.Over dinner the night before, Crampton described akikiki as “the little guys that at first you think are really boring, but then you spend a little time with them and discover that they have all these talents that are totally endearing. They do flips around the branches.” That morning, though, the only talent the akikiki exhibited was an unbudging perseverance.Hoping to get a look inside the nest, Collado climbed down, assuming that the akikiki would eventually fly off to feed. It didn’t. My notes from the time say: “Been here an hour. No change. Nothing to do but sit and watch.”The history of the planet is rife with extinctions, often sweeping ones. Roughly 250 million years ago, a cataclysmic eruption destroyed more than 95 percent of the life in the oceans and 70 percent of the animals on land, effectively erasing about 10 million years of evolution. In the past five centuries, extinctions have become less dramatic but arguably more constant: a slow drip of change as humans have spread across the globe, clearing forests, planting crops, building cities and roads.When the Endangered Species Act was passed in 1973, it was in response to a slowly dawning awareness of how the planet was changing under human dominion. Centuries of aggressive hunting and development had shrunk the once-spectacular abundance of American wildlife to a degree that prompted widespread bipartisan alarm. The new law, which was unanimously approved by the Senate, made it a federal crime to kill an endangered animal and, more radical, established the rigorous protection measures still in place today: that once a species reaches the point of endangerment, government agencies are required to take steps to save it. At the time, this inflexibility was considered a crucial bulwark against the pressure that would be brought by politically powerful industries, like logging and drilling. “Nothing is more priceless and more worthy of preservation than the rich array of animal life with which our country has been blessed,” President Nixon said while signing the act.Though it can be hard to imagine today, the Endangered Species Act was intended to be a starting point rather than an endgame; a last-ditch way to save species that were vanishing until more comprehensive and farsighted conservation plans could be put in place. As Chris D. Thomas, an ecologist and evolutionary biologist at the University of York, puts it, “The fact that we reach this point, with all the heroic measures, shows that we’re not great at planning ahead.”But it’s also true that extinctions just seem to get to us. We make a modest effort as a species dwindles and then, when it’s really on the ropes, we suddenly panic. “There’s just something gutting about a thing being lost to us forever,” Thomas says.AdvertisementMore debatable is the degree to which extinctions are genuinely catastrophic. Do these disappearances represent the loss of rare, beloved plants and birds? Or are they simply the next evolutionary step in an ever-changing, increasingly global ecosystem? When I spoke with Thomas, he supported the idea that truly invasive species — the kind that transform the landscape — may need to be contained. But it’s also true that the early isolation of the Pacific islands was itself an artifact. “If you look at it cruelly and unemotionally, Hawaii has native birds and introduced birds,” he told me. “The native birds are dying out, and the introduced birds are malaria resistant. Are the introduced birds worse? Not necessarily. You could argue that this is simply a case where island species have lost out and continental species have won.”In this view, the loss of Hawaii’s native birds and plants and their replacement by species that are more resistant to disease and predators, is just another case of the fittest surviving. If humans have accelerated this process by planting Argentine pampas grass in their gardens or by dumping tropical aquarium fish in their local lake, it’s still just a faster, looser version of what has been happening on the planet anyway: Starbucks in Paris and McDonald’s in Soweto; Australian brown tree snakes in Guam and Asian carp in the Great Lakes.In short, it’s fair to ask why, exactly, biodiversity matters. As Thomas says: “Even if we were to lose 10 percent of all species in the next hundred years, would biology stop? Would ecology stop? No. In fact, most people wouldn’t even be aware of the loss.” Given how radically we’ve already altered the landscape, how bad would it be if we just kept doing what we’re doing: paving the land, overfishing the oceans and letting the chips fall where they may?Faced with this dilemma, some conservationists have tried to shift the focus to an economic argument known as “ecosystem services”: the idea that we benefit from preserving biodiversity either because it saves us money (mangroves prevent coastal erosion that we would otherwise have to handle with an expensive engineering project) or because it contains something of value to us, either now or in the future. For instance, a biodiverse planet may provide a first defense against global warming. Or it may act as a repository of potential discoveries: new materials that mimic the strength of spider silk; drones modeled after insects; an anticancer drug derived from Amazonian moss.While all this may be true — mangroves do prevent coastal erosion; research into new cancer drugs derived from plants is underway — it can also sound wishful, like a hoarder arguing that his pile of junk might someday contain collectors’ items. The difference, Thomas says, is that unlike a hoarder’s pile, ecosystems perform vital planetary functions, like keeping soil fertile, preventing desertification and absorbing carbon dioxide. The reason some conservationists want to prioritize genetic or functional diversity isn’t that either of those things are inherently valuable to people, though they can be, but because they’re essential to the health and resiliency of ecosystems themselves. The true problem, then, is not whether we would notice those vanished species and ecosystems; it’s that there’s no good way to quantify the opportunity cost of our loss, which in turn can lead us to underestimate it. “The species we have now are the ancestors of all future species,” Thomas says. “And I don’t think we know enough about ecology or evolution, or how humans are going to affect the planet over the next thousand years, to bet on which animal or plant to keep.”All of which makes it hard to know where to draw the line. We can’t put every ecosystem in the world under glass. (We can’t even manage to do that on Kauai, a 500-square-mile island in the middle of the Pacific.) Even if we could, conservation isn’t always an ethically straightforward choice; in countries like Brazil and Kenya, do we prioritize protecting wild animals and their habitats or the farmers facing hunger who hunt those animals and who log forests to plant crops?Presumably, though, we also don’t want a planet that’s nothing but pavement, cattle farms and monoculture farmland. The biologist E.O. Wilson eloquently argued against living in a world of crows and rats, and against the loss of beautiful, fragile species like snow leopards, white rhinos and tiny mouse lemurs; even if you never see a lemur or an arctic fox in person, the world can be a richer place by having such creatures in it. Others simply see conservation as a moral duty: because we’re the ones creating these problems, isn’t it up to us to fix them?AdvertisementWhether we regard conservation as an ethical or an economic issue, we’re still faced with the question of how we decide what to save. In an ideal world, Michael Scott told me, conservation science would have the resources to study this question, rather than being stuck reacting to the latest crisis. “Figuring out which species and ecosystems are the most important to protect is a complicated project,” Scott says. “At this point, just coming up with a list of qualities we want to investigate would be a good start.”But for such an approach to take hold, the conservation movement would have to undergo a profound shift — away from triage mode and toward a more coherent and deliberate plan for global conservation. And such a shift would most likely require more resources and more political support than currently exist. The question is whether it will happen in time to shelter us from some of the more significant changes that climate change and development are likely to bring.One overcast morning, I drove up a winding road hung with vines to the Egg House, where recovered akikiki eggs are incubated and hatched. Mapping my route that morning, I envisioned the Egg House as a sophisticated research lab, stocked with high-powered equipment in temperature-controlled hatcheries. Instead, I found myself driving past suburban cul-de-sacs, lined with tidy houses, lawns and miniature palm trees, until I reached a small bungalow overlooking a forested canyon.To say that the Egg House was no-frills radically understates things. Aside from the room housing the chicks, which has air-conditioning, the house is humid and almost completely empty. In the living room, someone had set up a single cot, with a sleeping bag.That summer, the hatching and raising of the akikiki chicks was overseen by Amy Klotz and Becky Geelhood, from the San Diego Zoo’s Institute of Conservation Research. Klotz, a thin woman in a turquoise Kauai Forest Bird Recovery Project shirt, described the work as exhausting. Chicks must be fed every one to two hours and are weighed every day. “I lie awake nights wondering, Why didn’t that chick gain any weight since yesterday?” Klotz told me.In principle, captive breeding will keep a species alive while conservationists try to change the environmental factors that killed it off in the first place. But recreating the many conditions that allow a species to thrive can be staggeringly complex.When I spoke to Bryce Masuda, a conservation-program manager who oversees the captive-breeding program for the akikiki, he said that whether species reproduce can depend on complex cues in their environment: one bird might be signaled to mate by the appearance of a particular fruit, another by the abundance of a particular flower. Though zoo personnel do their best to replicate those conditions, Masuda told me, it can be difficult to determine what the important cues are. “With the akikiki, we increase the number of insects they get in the late winter and early spring,” Masuda said, “because we’re hoping that that will be a cue for them to lay eggs. But do they also need certain plants in their enclosures? Does the amount of rain each year matter? A lot of it, we just don’t know.”Even should the akikiki overcome these hurdles, it will most likely remain susceptible to avian malaria, which has begun spreading into the last of the island’s protected areas as the weather has grown both warmer and drier. When I asked Masuda why we should try to save the akikiki, given that it might never be able to survive in the wild, he demurred; even now, he said, the University of Hawaii was developing mosquitoes that would produce sterile offspring, significantly reducing the risk of avian malaria.AdvertisementIn theory, the potential for revitalization exists for most conservation-reliant species, even those, like the akikiki, currently on life support. When the California condor was on the verge of extinction — largely as a result of lead poisoning from eating animals shot by hunters but also because of their tendency to fly into power lines — David Brower, the former director of the Sierra Club, urged conservation groups to give the species “death with dignity.” (His view did not prevail, and the population is now back up to more than 440.)The peregrine falcon was similarly conservation-reliant for years, then rebounded after Congress outlawed DDT, which had been weakening the birds’ shells; they can now be seen nesting on New York skyscrapers. “Even if a species is dependent on us now, it may not be dependent indefinitely,” Chris Thomas says. But it’s not easy to see which species will eventually win out. In the case of the akikiki, Thomas says, unless something radical is done — impairing the vectors of the disease, or making the birds resistant with gene therapy — the birds will never survive in the wild. There may be a solution around the corner, or there may not.In the meantime, Geelhood and Klotz maintained their assiduous vigil. Because someone has to be watching over the eggs at all times — even an ordinary power outage could be lethal — the responsibility could be all-consuming. “Sometimes I won’t leave the house for days,” Klotz said. “Not even for 10 minutes to go to the store.”This sense of urgency was coupled with an awareness of just how long the odds for an endangered species can be. “You’re basically terrified all the time,” Klotz told me. “It’s a lot on your shoulders when there are 500 birds left in the world.”An earlier version of this article misidentified an organization that works on environmental issues. It is the Natural Resources Defense Council, not the National Resources Defense Council.Jennifer Kahn is a contributing writer for the magazine. She previously wrote a Letter of Recommendation about the YouTube series “Primitive Technology.”Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 2018, on Page MM30 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Should Some Species Be Allowed to Die Out?.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ANITA GATESMARCH 7, 2018
BOSTON “Fra Angelico: Heaven on Earth.” This exhibition is something of a reunion: In the early 1400s, the Renaissance artist Fra Angelico did four reliquaries depicting events in the life of the Virgin Mary. In 1899, the newly widowed American collector Isabella Stewart Gardner bought one of them, “Assumption and Dormition of the Virgin,” and brought it back to Boston. Now its three companions, from the Museo de San Marco in Florence, are coming to visit. Through May 20. Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, 25 Evans Way; 617-566-1401,gardnermuseum.orgBOSTON “Klimt and Schiele: Drawn.” Exactly 100 years ago, two of Austria’s most revered and convention-challenging artists died: Gustav Klimt (1862-1918) and Egon Schiele (1890-1918). This show of 60 rarely seen drawings, on loan from the Albertina Museum in Vienna, focuses on how the two men’s works related, despite drastic differences in style, and on their daring depictions of the human body. Through May 28. Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 465 Huntington Avenue; 617-267-9300, mfa.orgHARTFORD “Frederic Church: A Painter’s Pilgrimage.” We know the Hartford-born Church (1826-1900) as a master of the Hudson River School, but he constantly traveled internationally, seeking fresh inspiration for his landscapes. This show focuses on Church’s lesser-known works, of sites he painted in Egypt, Syria, Greece, Italy and Israel in the 1860s and ’70s. June 2-Aug. 26. Wadsworth Atheneum, 600 Main Street; 860-278-2670, thewadsworth.orgMANCHESTER, N.H. “The Sculpture of Augustus Saint-Gaudens.” War heroes were his specialty. Even his large-scale works, like “Lincoln: The Man” (best known as “Standing Lincoln”) and his 1893 “Diana” (which once balanced on one toe atop the original Madison Square Garden in New York), are part of this exhibition, the first major New England show of Saint Gaudens’s work in decades. Born in Dublin, raised in New York and active throughout Europe, Saint-Gaudens summered in New Hampshire, then spent his final years there, at his home and studio in Cornish. Through May 20. Currier Museum of Art, 150 Ash Street; 603-669-6144, currier.orgAdvertisementPORTLAND, ME. “The Robbers: German Art in a Time of Crisis.” In 1782, “The Robbers,” a new drama about two brothers (one a money-hungry villain, the other an idealistic revolutionary), made its playwright, Friedrich Schiller, famous. In 1922, the Berlin Dada artist George Grosz turned the same story into a lithographic suite, with its characters and action updated to Grosz’s present (and very unsettled) world, the Weimar Republic. Those nine prints, plus a table of contents, are the centerpiece of this show, which also includes works by Käthe Kollwitz, Max Beckmann and Otto Dix that reflect on Germany’s sociocultural milieu after the Great War. Through July 5. Portland Museum of Art, 7 Congress Square; 207-775-6148, portlandmuseum.org.AdvertisementPROVIDENCE, R.I. “The Phantom of Liberty: Contemporary Works in the RISD Museum Collection.” This is the design school museum’s broadest exhibition so far – more than 40 artists — of postwar art and design. Works in a variety of media make statements about the concept of freedom. Artists include Deana Lawson, Yinka Shonibare and Faig Ahmed. May 4–Dec. 30. Rhode Island School of Design Museum, 224 Benefit Street; 401-454-6500, risdmuseum.orgWILLIAMSTOWN, MASS. “Drawn to Greatness: Master Drawings From the Thaw Collection.” The New York art dealer Eugene V. Thaw, who died in January, assembled a remarkable collection of drawings over the last half-century. This show includes 150 of them: pen-and-ink, chalk, graphite and watercolor works from the likes of Tiepolo, Ingres, Watteau, Turner, Degas, Cassatt, Gauguin, Cézanne, Matisse, Pollock and – oh, yeah – Picasso and Rembrandt. Through April 28. Clark Art Institute, 225 South Street; 413-458-2303, clarkart.eduNORTH ADAMS, MASS. “Allison Janae Hamilton: Pitch.” Ms. Hamilton’s photographs have titles like “Nightgown and Spanish Moss” and “House Dress Hanging in Live Oak.” Her installations include taxidermy (alligators, a common sight during her Florida childhood, are favorites). This, Ms. Hamilton’s first solo museum exhibition, makes clear her love for the land (she sees the environment as subject, not background, she has said); her embrace of the mythical; and a palpable, intensely Southern sense of place. March 25-March 2, 2019. Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art (MASS MoCA), 1040 Mass Moca Way; 413-662-2111, massmoca.org BALTIMORE “Crowning Glory: Art of the Americas.” One insightful way to assess a civilization: what the people put on their heads, how they portrayed the human head and what that meant in terms of identity, prestige and spirituality. This 20-object show examines pre-Columbian cultures as old as the 12th century B.C., in Central and South America: The Olmec of Mexico left behind a series of distinctive giant heads, up to 12 feet tall, made of volcanic basalt. Carvings from the Jama-Coaque of Ecuador show their affection for a wide range of elaborate headwear. The Nazca of Peru were into trophy skulls. Through Oct. 7. Walters Art Museum, 600 North Charles Street; 410-547-9000, thewalters.orgNEW YORK (BROOKLYN) “David Bowie Is.” As you might expect, a show about Bowie (1947-2016), a pop star who specialized in innovation and reinvention, is thoroughly multimedia, with video projections and continuous audio. It’s big too: The 400 or so objects include 60 of his performance costumes, 85 handwritten lyric sheets and an abundance of music videos, television clips and concert footage. Organized by the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, the show has been touring worldwide for five years; this is the big finish. Through July 15. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway; 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.orgNEW YORK (MANHATTAN) “Bodys Isek Kingelez.” Rachel Donadio, writing in The New York Times, once summarized his work as “architectural models gone wild.” Mr. Kingelez, a self-taught Congolese sculptor who died in 2015, started doing models of single buildings and soon expanded into complete futuristic cityscapes. This show, which includes pieces from the 1989 Centre Pompidou show “Magiciens de la Terre,” is the first major retrospective of his work. May 26-Oct. 21. Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street;212-708-9400, moma.orgNEW YORK (QUEENS) “Mel Chin: All Over the Place.” One day in July, it will appear in Times Square: Is it a shipwreck statue? A whale skeleton? Something in between. It will be joined by a 20-foot-tall animatronic statue of Jenny Lind, who was a megastar singer in the 19th century. This “augmented reality” is part of a major survey (more than 70 works) of the career of Mr. Chin, a conceptual artist whose work comments on environmental issues and social justice. Based at the Queens Museum, the show – as its title suggests – is also all around the town. April 8-Aug. 12. Queens Museum, Flushing Meadows Corona Park; 718-592-9700, queensmuseum.orgAdvertisementPHILADELPHIA “Modern Times: American Art 1910-1950.” The world was seriously changing in the early 20th century (automobiles, tall buildings, bizarre new music), and many American artists responded by using colors and shapes in new ways. Georgia O’Keeffe’s “Red and Orange Streak,” Marsden Hartley’s “Painting No. 4 (A Black Horse),” Florine Stettheimer’s “Spring Sale at Bendel’s” and Beauford Delaney’s “Portrait of James Baldwin” are among the works here. April 18-Sept. 3. Philadelphia Museum of Art, 2600 Benjamin Franklin Parkway; 215-763-8100, philamuseum.orgPRINCETON “Frank Stella Unbound: Literature and Printmaking.” Mr. Stella, 81, has been a minimalist, a maximalist, a maker of shaped canvases and a practitioner of relief so high that it had to be called sculpture. And over 15 years (1984-99), he created major print series based on four quite different literary sources. Now, at his alma mater (where he majored in history), 41 prints from those series — based on a collection of Italian folk tales, the Dictionary of Imaginary Places, “Had Gadya” (a Passover song) and “Moby-Dick” – will be brought together. May 19-Sept. 23. Princeton University Art Museum, Elm Drive; 609-258-3788, artmuseum.princeton.edu WASHINGTON “Black Out: Silhouettes Then and Now.” These cut-paper profiles are a centuries-old art form but relatively unstudied. Highlights of this 50th-anniversary gallery exhibition include a life-size silhouette of an enslaved 19-year-old woman (alongside her 1796 bill of sale) and work by Auguste Edouart (1789-1861). Contemporary artists in the show include Kara Walker, Kristi Malakoff, Camille Utterback and Kumi Yamashita. May 11-March 10 (2019). Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery, Eighth and F Streets N.W.; 202-633-8300, npg.si.eduWASHINGTON “Georg Baselitz.” In partnership with the Fondation Beyeler in Riehen, Switzerland, this major retrospective is the first one on these shores in two decades for Mr. Baselitz, the figurative master who turned 80 in January. More than a hundred works on display (some never seen before in this country) include “The Naked Man” (1962), which was once confiscated by East German authorities, perhaps because of its depiction of a larger-than-life-size erect penis; work from his “Helden,” or “Heroes,” series (mid-1960s); and the upside-down paintings that made him famous in the ’70s. And some say that statue of his at the 1980 Venice Biennale was really a Hitler salute. June 21-Sept. 16. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Independence Avenue and Seventh Street; 202-633-4674, hirshhorn.si.eduWILMINGTON, DEL. “Eye on Nature: Andrew Wyeth and John Ruskin.” Wyeth (1917–2009), the illustrator’s son from Chadds Ford, Penn., was best known for “Christina’s World,” a wistful combination of landscape and portrait. The London-born Ruskin (1819-1900) was the most distinguished art critic of his day, barely known as an artist at all. But these very different men were similarly fascinated with the details of the natural world. Now Ruskin’s pencil-ink-and-inkwash “Trees in a Lane” (1847) and Wyeth’s ink-and-watercolor “Sycamore Tree” (1941) hang side by side as part of this show, which includes almost 60 works by the two. Through May 27. Delaware Art Museum, 2301 Kentmere Parkway; 302-571-9590, delart.orgATLANTA “Divine Felines: Cats of Ancient Egypt.” Cats were poised and graceful, and they killed vermin and snakes, but that doesn’t really explain why they were worshiped in Egypt for thousands of years. More than 90 objects from this college museum and the Brooklyn Museum collection suggest the reverential treatment the animals received in life and death (sometimes being mummified, just like the pharaohs). Items from Egypt include an Old Kingdom limestone tomb relief; a Ptolemaic-period stele with the leonine gods Bes and Tutu; a wood, gesso and paint cat coffin; and a 2,000-or-so-year-old bronze cat statuette that has Old Hollywood history too. Charlie Chaplin is said to have presented it as a gift to Paulette Goddard. Through Nov. 11. Michael C. Carlos Museum of Emory University, 571 South Kilgo Circle; 404-727-4282, carlos.emory.eduFORT WORTH “From the Lands of Asia: The Sam and Myrna Myers Collection.” Here’s a very personal vision of Asian art. Mr. Myers – an American, who with his wife (who died in 2012) moved to Paris in the 1960s and began buying Asian art, has lent the Kimbell Art Museum more than 400 objects the couple collected over the years, some dating back to the Neolithic era. You can’t say the show lacks variety; items include a 17th-century Tibetan tapestry coat, a jade pendant from the Han dynasty, a Japanese wood sculpture of a Noh actor, porcelain, ivory, kimonos and Buddhist art. Through Aug. 19. Kimbell Art Museum, 3333 Camp Bowie Boulevard; 817-332-8451, kimbellart.orgPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.HOUSTON “Modernism on the Ganges: Raghubir Singh Photographs.” Living in Paris, London, New York and Hong Kong, Mr. Singh (1942-99) saw it all, but his eye was always drawn back to his native India. The nearly 90 photos in this show were done with a handheld camera, color slide film and an eye for a subcontinent’s dense complexity. Mr. Singh’s influences ranged from the Parisian photographer Henri Cartier-Bresson to the filmmaker Satyajit Ray. Through June 3. Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, 1001 Bissonet Street; 713-639-7771, mfah.orgJACKSON, MISS. “Picturing Mississippi, 1817-2017: Land of Plenty, Pain, and Promise.” Some 175 works created by a hundred or so artists who lived in Mississippi (which celebrated two centuries of statehood last year) or came from afar to be inspired by it. Among them: Eudora Welty, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Henri Cartier-Bresson, John James Audubon, Carrie Mae Weems, Kara Walker, Melvin Edwards, George Caleb Bingham and Andy Warhol (represented by “Triple Elvis,” whose subject was born in Tupelo in 1935). Through July 8. Mississippi Museum of Art, 380 South Lamar Street; 601-960-1515, msmuseumart.orgAdvertisementNASHVILLE “Rome: City and Empire.” From 100 B.C. to A.D. 400, it was the largest city in the world. At its height, the Roman Empire ruled over one-fifth of the planet’s population. This British Museum exhibition tells its story through more than 200 historical objects of all kinds. Among the treasures: a gold seal ring that bears the face of Mark Antony, a gilded wall painting of plaster and gold, a relief of two female gladiators, heads of Hadrian and Augustus, copper and enamel jewelry, and a fresco from doomed Pompeii. This is the show’s only North American stop. Through May 28. Frist Center for the Visual Arts, 919 Broadway; 615-244-3340, fristcenter.org.SARASOTA, FLA. “Hank Willis Thomas: Branded/Unbranded.” Take an ad, delete the words with the advertising pitch, and what you’re left with is another message: the evolution of identity and stereotypes in marketing images. Or substitute new copy, and a MasterCard ad can become a heartbreaking comment on a young black man’s funeral (“Finding the right casket for your son: Priceless”). Mr. Thomas, a black photographer and conceptual artist born in New Jersey in 1976, uses these methods to comment on race, gender and commodification. About half of this 26-work exhibition comes from those series, particularly “Unbranded: A Century of White Women, 1915-2015,” alongside real ads from the artist’s personal archives. Through June 10. John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art, 5401 Bay Shore Road; 941-359-5700, ringling.orgCHICAGO “The Medieval World at Our Fingertips: Manuscript Illuminations From the Collection of Sandra Hindman.” Ms. Hindman, founder of Les Enluminures (galleries in Chicago, New York and Paris) and a noted medieval manuscript scholar, offers nearly 30 European illuminations here, spanning four centuries. The show includes fragments from choir books and books-of-hours (lavishly illustrated devotional texts made for everyday churchgoers). Through May 28. Art Institute of Chicago, 111 South Michigan Avenue; 312-443-3600, artic.eduCINCINNATI “Terracotta Army: Legacy of the First Emperor of China.” Most art lovers know something about the thousands of life-size terra cotta soldiers found by farmers in Shaanxi province in 1974. This international loan exhibition brings many of them – and related Qin dynasty objects, from the same third-century B.C. funerary pit – to the United States for the first time. April 20-Aug. 12. Cincinnati Art Museum, 953 Eden Park Drive; 513-639-2995, cincinnatiartmuseum.orgDETROIT “Making Home: Contemporary Works From the DIA.” Home is supposed to mean “comfort, belonging and permanency,” this show’s organizers point out. But some of the 47 works here (mostly prints, drawings and photographs) may reflect a different reality. The show, which comments on both domestic space and community as home, includes Carrie Mae Weems’s seminal “Kitchen Table Series” photographs; Lorna Simpson’s “Bathroom,” a study of mirrors framed by glaring light bulbs; Roger Shimomura’s wartime-theme lithograph “American Guardian”; and works by Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg and Romare Bearden. Through June 6. Detroit Institute of Arts, 5200 Woodward Avenue; 313-833-7900, dia.org KANSAS CITY, MO. “All the World’s a Stage: Theater and Costume.” And every man an actor, Shakespeare added, who after his hour upon the stage is heard no more. But sometimes, as this small, highly specialized show of 10 prints and drawings reminds us, artists immortalized the performers. And sometimes they helped create the theatrical illusions. The exhibition includes Edouard Manet’s depiction of commedia dell’arte characters, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec’s cabaret performers, and Marc Chagall’s sets and costumes for the Moscow State Yiddish Theater. Through Aug. 5. Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, 4525 Oak Street; 816-751-1278, nelson-atkins.orgMILWAUKEE “Designing Paris: The Posters of Jules Chéret.” A Milwaukee couple, James and Susee Wiechmann, began collecting Chéret (1836-1932) posters in the 1980s and have now donated nearly 600 to their hometown museum. This introductory show includes 16, produced between 1878 and 1906, with an emphasis on colorful come-ons for Paris’s most famous music hall, the Folies-Bergère. Chéret shows a taste for soft reds and yellows, and for depictions of women’s legs. Through April 29. Milwaukee Art Museum, 700 North Art Museum Drive; 414-224-3220, mam.orgMINNEAPOLIS “Power and Beauty in China’s Last Dynasty: Concept and Design by Robert Wilson.” Yes, Mr. Wilson’s credit is part of the title. That’s how revered a theater artist he is. More than four decades after “Einstein on the Beach,” his masterpiece with Philip Glass, he creates a museum installation as theater. Art (objects from the museum’s collection), light and sound evoke the Qing dynasty as museumgoers walk through various spaces, each one representing an aspect of the opulent life inside the imperial palace. Through May 27. Minneapolis Institute of Art, 2400 Third Avenue South; 612-870-3131, artsmia.orgDENVER “Degas: A Passion for Perfection.” Every freshman art student knows that Edgar Degas adored dancers; roughly half his life’s work depicted ballerinas. But Degas was also fascinated by opera, by horses and by human nudes. This show focuses on his recurring themes in more than 100 works (from paintings to bronze sculptures) made between 1855 (when the artist was 21) and 1906. We even see how he adjusted when street scenes in his beloved Paris began to include electric lights. This is the only American stop for the show, organized by the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge, England. Through May 20. Denver Art Museum, 13th Avenue between Broadway and Bannock Street; 720-865-5500, denverartmuseum.orgAdvertisementLOS ANGELES “Reality Projector” by Olafur Eliasson. The Copenhagen-born, Berlin-based Mr. Eliasson’s first major exhibition here is a site-specific installation. Projected light creates dynamic shadow play that turns the Marciano’s huge first-floor gallery into an abstract 3-D film. Through Aug. 31. Marciano Art Foundation, 4357 Wilshire Boulevard; 424-204-7555, marcianoartfoundation.org LOS ANGELES “Michelangelo to Degas: Major New Acquisitions.” Where has Michelangelo’s circa-1500 “Study of a Mourning Woman” been all these years? In England, in the library at Castle Howard (where “Brideshead Revisited” was filmed), pasted inside an album. It’s just one of 16 major drawings in this show drawn from the Getty’s impressive 2017 acquisitions. Degas is represented by two late-19th-century works: a nude and a study of dancers. Other artists here include Goya, Andrea del Sarto and Tiepolo. The Getty, which is celebrating its 20th anniversary, has also thrown in one painting: “La Surprise” (1718-19), by Jean Antoine Watteau, which until a decade or so ago was believed to have been lost. Through April 22. J. Paul Getty Museum, Getty Center Drive at Sepulveda Boulevard; 310-440-7300, getty.eduPORTLAND, ORE. “Richard Diebenkorn: Beginnings, 1942-1955.” A native Oregonian, Mr. Diebenkorn (born in Portland in 1922) was a star of figuration. But what did he do before that? Roughly 100 paintings and drawings on loan from the artist’s foundation, most never publicly exhibited before, begin to answer that question. The show includes early works in oil, watercolor, gouache and ink; Abstract Expressionist paintings done in California; and “Untitled (Horse and Rider)” (1954), considered one of his first mature figurative paintings. June 16-Sept. 23. Portland Art Museum, 1219 S.W. Park Avenue; 503-226-2811, portlandartmuseum.orgSAN FRANCISCO “The Train: RFK’s Last Journey.” Fifty years ago (June 8, 1968), a Penn Central train carried the body of Senator Robert F. Kennedy, assassinated three days before, from New York to Washington for burial at Arlington. Inside, a Magnum photographer, Paul Fusco, took color shots of the sea of mourners lining the tracks. Outside, the spectators took their own photos and home movies as the train passed. Now their work (collected by Rein Jelle Terpstra), Mr. Fusco’s pictures and Philippe Parreno’s 70-millimeter film re-creating the journey, are together in this multidisciplinary memorial. March 17-June 10. San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 151 Third Street; 415-357-4000, sfmoma.orgSANTA FE “No Idle Hands: The Myths & Meanings of Tramp Art.” During the Depression, there were a lot of old cigar boxes and fruit crates lying around. People (mostly, but not all, men) had pocket knives, they knew how to notch and layer, and tramp art was born. The term is a misnomer (its practitioners were not necessarily bums or hobos), but the name stuck. This show includes more than 150 examples – sewing boxes, jewelry boxes, communion boxes, picture frames, small furniture pieces — from the United States and seven other countries. Five of the artists are still working in the genre today. Through Sept. 16. Museum of International Folk Art, 706 Camino Lejo, Santa Fe, N.M.; 505-476-1200, moifa.orgSEATTLE “Figuring History: Robert Colescott, Kerry James Marshall, Mickalene Thomas.” What if it had been “George Washington Carver Crossing the Delaware”? In Mr. Colescott’s work, it was – and the guy in the back of the boat was playing a banjo. Ms. Thomas painted a “Dejeuner sur l’Herbe” in which the trois femmes were black. Mr. Marshall’s “School of Beauty, School of Culture,” set in a black-owned hair salon, was his take on the history-painting genre. This show of three African-American artists creates a solid counternarrative on general history, art history, black identity and gender identity. Through May 13. Seattle Art Museum, 1300 First Avenue; 206-654-3100, seattleartmuseum.orgAn earlier version of this article misstated the month in which a sculpture by Mel Chin will appear in Times Square. It is July, not April; the overall exhibition “Mel Chin: All Over the Place” begins in April.An earlier version of this article gave an incorrect location for the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art (MASS MoCA). It is North Adams, Mass., not West Adams.A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 2018, on Page F42 of the New York edition with the headline: Art From Three Millenniums.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:36 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  Uber's decision to exit Southeast Asia, where it was bleeding money, should give the global ride-hailing giant more firepower to focus on India, where it's locked in a fierce battle with local rival, Ola, industry analysts say.With Uber considering a public offering in 2019, it would make sense for the company to pitch India's growth potential to investors, said one industry source, adding it also needs to balance that by showing profitability.Uber and Ola are both backed by a common investor, SoftBank, which pushed behind the scenes for the merger between Uber and Grab Holdings in Southeast Asia. But it's not clear that SoftBank intends to spur another Uber consolidation in India, an under-penetrated market with a population of 1.3 billion people.Executives from Uber and Ola met at least twice over the last 12 months, sources aware of the meetings told Reuters, the most recent just weeks before Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi's visit to India in February.AdvertisementAmong other things, Uber brought up a potential merger between the two companies with Uber in the driver's seat, two of the sources said.AdvertisementOla's spokesman said the company "is always actively looking for opportunities for expansion of its footprint," adding that Ola has the backing of its investors, including SoftBank.If any consolidation has to happen in the Indian ride-sharing industry, Ola would lead that conversation, he said. Uber declined to comment on the meeting, but said in a statement its deal with Grab will allow it to double down to invest aggressively in core markets, which includes India.SoftBank declined to comment for this article.    For his part, Khosrowshahi, in a statement after the Grab deal, said he has no plans for another sale in which Uber consolidates its operations in exchange for a minority stake in a rival."There has been a clear conversation that this is the last deal where Uber will take a minority stake," said a source familiar with Uber's thinking."For future deals with any global competitors, if they happen, Uber will have the controlling stake," said the source.MERGER OF EQUALSUber's decision to sell its business in Southeast Asia to Grab for a 27.5 percent stake in the local ride-hailing company was its first major move after SoftBank's recent multi-billion dollar investment in the U.S.-based company.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.SoftBank owns stakes in most major global ride-hailing firms, and executives have indicated they favor consolidation. SoftBank's Vision Fund Chief Executive Rajeev Misra has already urged Uber to focus less on Asia and more on profitable markets such as Latin America, a person familiar with the matter had said.In India, which makes up more than 10 percent of its global rides, Uber has to battle just one rival, Ola, whereas in Southeast Asia and China it was up against multiple local operators.Advertisement"The situation in India is different (from Southeast Asia)," said Frederic Giron, vice president and research director, of consultancy Forrester. "The market is much bigger and they (Uber) do not have the same profitability issues that they faced in Southeast Asia."But to win in India, Uber will need to fight harder than it has in recent months, during which it has lost some ground to Ola, industry analysts said.Uber operates in about 30 Indian cities and has more than 35 percent share of the taxi market. Ola, which is in 110 cities, has more than a 45 percent share, according to Counterpoint Research. It also has its own digital wallet called Ola Money and offers services such as Prime Play — an in-car entertainment platform for longer trips.Counterpoint analyst Neil Shah says Uber's slower pace in India is not so much about its commitment to the market but more about the recent turmoil at its headquarters, the new CEO's style of managing the business and the pressure he faces to show profits to shareholders.While Uber's operations in India are more profitable than Ola's, according to Counterpoint, the latter's revenues are bigger and it has a wider range of products, including autorickshaws - an important mode of transport in smaller towns.In a show of commitment, Uber recently signed one of India's most expensive celebrities, Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli, as its brand ambassador for five years. But it needs to fill dozens of vacancies in the country, including naming new heads for its car leasing business and public policy."Uber is not going to quit any time soon," said the industry source who has worked with ride-hailing companies. "I believe they will focus on India more strongly. India continues to be two-horse race at least for the next couple of years."(Additional reporting by Aradhana Aravindan in Singapore, Sankalp Phartiyal and Euan Rocha in Mumbai; Editing by Bill Tarrant)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:38 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  India on Wednesday allowed the import of used goods for repair and refurbishing on condition that the imported items are  exported - a move that could entice companies like smartphone maker Apple further into the Indian market.New Delhi has changed its policy at a time when the United States and its biggest trading partner China are on the brink of a trade war, with President Donald Trump announcing plans to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion (£42.7 billion) worth of Chinese goods.China plans to impose additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports, mainly in response to Washington's import tariffs on steel and aluminium.The sparring has cast a spotlight on U.S. firms such as Apple, which assemble the majority of their products in China for export to other countries. Electrical goods and tech gadgets are the largest U.S. import items from China.Advertisement"Trump's trade war with China could be a win for India," said Neil Shah, partner at tech research firm Counterpoint.AdvertisementChina is currently among the top destinations for repair and refurbishment of electronic devices.India wants waste generated during the repair and refurbishing of the imported items to be treated in line with local laws including health, safety and environment norms, a government order issued on Wednesday said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The South Asian nation's new policy on import of used goods could help smartphone makers such as Apple to cut cost as they battle rising manufacturing and labour costs in China, where a bulk of its pricey iPhones are made."(New Delhi's policy change) will give someone like Apple an opportunity to tap India's cheap talent for repairing phones and could potentially turn India into a global export hub for refurbished devices," said Shah.Apple has been in talks with the Indian government for months, seeking tax breaks and incentives to expand its operations in the country.Apple did not immediately reply to a request for comment.(Reporting by Sankalp Phartiyal and Nidhi Verma; Editing by Richard Balmforth)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 11:11 A.M. E.D.T.
CAPE TOWN —  The lengthy bans meted out to Australia's Steve Smith, David Warner and Cameron Bancroft on Wednesday rule them out of an end-of-year series against top-ranked India that could rival the intensity of their scandal-ridden tour to South Africa.Smith and Warner will not be available for Australia until April next year, while Bancroft's nine-month ban will last until early 2019.The next 12 months will continue a busy list of commitments for Australia, according to the International Cricket Council's (ICC) future tours programme, not least a mouth-watering match-up with India, including the traditional Boxing Day test in Melbourne and equally well-attended New Year's affair in Sydney.The match-up of Smith's captaincy and batting acumen against that of Indian skipper Virat Kohli is now lost in the wake of the punishment for the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa.AdvertisementIt should have some diminishing effect on a series that will still be vital to India's status as the top ranked test-playing nation and the growing belief this generation is the best test side the country has yet produced.AdvertisementBut Indian touring teams have traditionally struggled Down Under and any claims India have to being the best would be severely tested on the Australian wickets.Over the next 12 months, Australia have 12 test matches, 29 One Day Internationals and seven Twenty20 internationals scheduled.The bans, announced by Cricket Australia in the wake of the ball-tampering scandal in Cape Town at the weekend, are due to end before next year's World Cup in England and Wales, which starts on May 30, followed by the Ashes series in England.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Australia are next due to travel to England for five ODIs and a single T20 game in June. Warner had captained Australia's T20 team.PRECARIOUSThe ICC then has Australia down for a test and three ODIs in Zimbabwe but this is not likely to happen given the precarious financial state of the game in Zimbabwe, Reuters has learnt.Australia then host Bangladesh in two tests and three ODIs in August before playing away against Pakistan in a five match ODI series and then hosting South Africa in a similar limited overs series in November.After India's tour, the 25-year-old Bancroft will be available for selection when Sri Lanka visit Australia in early 2019 for two tests and three ODIs before Australia travel to India for five ODIs and two T20 matches, which have already been scheduled between Feb. 24 and March 13.The last test series that falls inside the period of Smith and Warner's ban will be away against Pakistan in March next year.Their ban also ruled out participation for the pair in this year's Indian Premier League but minutes before the Australian sanctions were handed down, the IPL announced neither would be welcome this year.Advertisement(Editing by Christian Radnedge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 6:21 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Vedanta Resources Plc said on Tuesday its India unit Vedanta Ltd's copper smelting operations at Thootukudi, in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, will be closed for about 15 days as part of a maintenance shutdown.The news of the maintenance activity, which Vedanta said was earlier scheduled for April, comes amid local media reports that thousands had taken to the streets and shut shops in Thootukudi to protest against the expansion of the smelter.The refining and copper rod manufacturing operations would continue as usual at the smelter, Vedanta said in a statement. The company did not return calls from Reuters seeking further comment.The copper smelter, run by Vedanta's Sterlite Copper unit, is one of the India's biggest and has been a target of protesters, who call it a major source of pollution and a risk to fisheries.The plant was shut for more than two months in 2013 after residents complained about emissions. An environmental court later ruled the smelter could operate, but should take extra steps to prevent pollution.(Reporting by Arathy S Nair in Bengaluru; Editing by Savio D'Souza)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 3:15 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  India's government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian voters and users has been compromised by U.K.-based Cambridge Analytica or any other downstream entity.A similar notice was dispatched to Cambridge Analytica last week following media reports that it had misused data to profile Indians and influence their elections. The government set a Saturday deadline for Cambridge Analytica and April 7 for Facebook to respond to its inquiry.Facebook is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that the data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections.India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said in a statement late Wednesday that Facebook has its largest footprint in India in terms of its user base and sought to know "what proactive measures it is taking to ensure the safety, security and privacy of such large user data and to prevent its misuse by any third party."AdvertisementThe governing Bharatiya Janata Party and the main opposition Congress Party have accused each other of utilizing the services of the British company, but denied any link with it. Cambridge Analytica's allegedly unauthorized harvesting of Facebook data and a series of leaks linked to India's biometric database has refocused public attention on digital privacy in the country.Digital law experts say Indian regulations offered particularly weak safeguards against data breach.The Indian government's notice to Facebook sought to know "whether Facebook or its related or downstream agencies utilizing Facebook's data have previously been engaged by any entities to manipulate the Indian electoral process."Advertisement"If any such downstream entity misused data from Facebook, what is the protection available to the data subject?" it asked.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 5:36 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - India's Income Tax department has frozen Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp's bank accounts and deposits in Chennai and Mumbai for allegedly evading a dividend distribution tax (DDT), according to a report on Tuesday.A Cognizant spokesman confirmed the report and said in a statement that a court has instructed the tax department not to take further action pending further hearings.Cognizant failed to pay the tax of more than 25 billion rupees ($385 million) in the 2016-17 financial year, the Hindu newspaper reported, citing officials from the tax department. (https://bit.ly/2GyhuAQ)Cognizant said it had paid all applicable taxes due on the transaction.The company's accounts were frozen a week back and it had approached the High Court against the tax department, according to the report.Advertisement"Cognizant's business operations, our associates and our work with clients are not impacted by actions recently attempted by the Indian Income Tax Department," the company said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A Cognizant spokesman declined to give more details, while tax department officials could not be reached for comment outside regular business hours.The U.S.-listed IT services has significant operations in India where the majority of its 260,000 employees reside.Advertisement(Reporting by Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 6:29 A.M. E.D.T.
KOLKATA —  Clashes in India between supporters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's party and those of an opposition party snowballed into Hindu-Muslim rioting, with three people killed and dozens injured over two days of violence, police said on Tuesday.The trouble in the eastern state of West Bengal began on Sunday with rival processions by Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the state's ruling Trinamool Congress marking the birth of the Hindu god Rama.Violence broke out on Sunday and spilled over into Monday, turning into clashes between Hindus and Muslims.Anuj Sharma, a top police official in the state, said officials had held an emergency meeting on Tuesday and security had been increased, with riot police deployed, and about 100 people detained to snuff out the violence.Advertisement"Large scale arrests are underway," Sharma told Reuters.The danger of communal violence is a constant worry in the world's biggest democracy.AdvertisementTension between Muslims and Hindus has increased in some places since Modi and his Hindu-nationalist BJP came to power in 2014.Babul Supriyo, a BJP federal government minister from West Bengal, blamed Muslims for the violence."Goons from the minority community" had torched shops and "pulled Hindus out from their houses and assaulted/injured them brutally with choppers & swords", he said on Twitter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Police declined to comment on Supriyo's assertion while a Trinamool Congress leader denounced it as "highly regrettable".Muslim community leaders were not available for comment.State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said at least half a dozen senior BJP members had been named in police complaints for causing disharmony between communities and illegally carrying weapons, but the party denied wrongdoing.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who heads the Trinamool Congress and is one of Modi's biggest critics, ordered strict police action against all trouble-makers.Modi's party has been trying hard to gain ground in West Bengal, one of the few states it has never ruled.The party is in power in 21 of India's 29 states, propelled by Modi's popularity as well as by religious polarization in some places.(Writing by Krishna N. Das; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 24, 2018, 5:47 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  India has set a March 31 deadline for London-based political consultancy Cambridge Analytica to respond to a query on whether it was engaged to improperly harvest Facebook data on Indian citizens, the information technology ministry said.India's information technology minister last week warned against any abuse of social media in elections, following reports that the analytics firm improperly accessed information on millions of Facebook users to target U.S. voters.Friday's notice to the firm followed local media reports that Indian political parties had used the data analytics firm during elections.India is preparing for a general election in 2019 and several states will elect new assemblies this year and the next.Advertisement"The fairness of Indian democracy and electoral process is a matter of pride and any attempt to influence the sanctity of the electoral franchise through dubious and questionable means is unacceptable," the ministry said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Attempts by Reuters to seek comment from the firm, via social media, went unanswered.The ministry raised six questions in its notice, from whether the firm had engaged in profiling based on the data collected, to how the data was used and if consent had been secured from the concerned individuals.AdvertisementThe government was deeply concerned with allegations that data could have been used to influence people's behavior, the ministry said.The ministry has threatened to take legal action against companies and individuals engaging in any unauthorized use of such data.(Reporting by Malini Menon; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 11:53 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  A massive $32 billion bailout package for India's dominant state-run banks will not happen again and lenders will have to find their own funding by selling non-core assets and merging with each other, a senior government official said on Monday.Twenty-one banks, majority owned by New Delhi, account for more than two-thirds of the banking assets in Asia's third-biggest economy. These lenders also account for close to 90 percent of soured loans in the banking sector.Last October, the finance ministry announced a state-bank rescue plan worth 2.11 trillion rupees ($32.41 billion) - $14 billion of which it is in the process of injecting as a first tranche - to help banks set aside enough for their bad loans and boost credit growth in an economy where banks are the main source of funding."My message is no more recapitalisation. Whatever has happened, has happened. Clean up on your own," the official who oversees the state banking sector told Reuters.Advertisement"We brought you out of the intensive care unit (ICU). Now, if you again go back to the ICU, and we keep bringing you out, that's not how it's done," said the official, declining to be named.AdvertisementThe Indian government would like to get the total number of state-run banks to down to 12-13 from 21 now through mergers, the official said. He did not give a time-frame for such deals, but expected some bank mergers to happen during the current financial year that began on Sunday."You either shrink or find some synergy," the official said.Recent rule changes by the Reserve Bank of India that did away with existing loan-restructuring schemes and aims to steer more defaulting companies into the bankruptcy courts could mean non-performing loans in state-run banks could rise from nearly 8 trillion rupees now, the official said, although he added 10 trillion rupees would be the upper limit for any such increase.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Including restructured or rolled over loans, all banks in India had a total 9.5 trillion rupees of soured loans as of end-December, central bank data shows. State-run banks' stressed loan pile was 8.26 trillion rupees, or 15.8 percent of their total loans.To avert situations like the massive $2 billion fraud in state-run Punjab National Bank that stunned the financial sector, the government is asking banks to constantly monitor loans above 2.5 billion rupees and report at their board meetings every quarter, the official said.The government is also working to ease the country's fledgling bankruptcy laws to help speed up the resolution process, the official said.One of the proposals is to allow a resolution process to go ahead if 66 percent of the creditors vote for it, compared with the current requirement of a minimum of 75 percent."We are facing some resistance here from the promoters," the official said, referring to the main backers of companies."But we are planning to ease the process with more changes."($1 = 65.1100 Indian rupees)(Reporting by Neha Dasgupta and Sanjeev Miglani, editing by David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robin PogrebinBalkrishna Doshi doesn’t talk just about his buildings. This architect, urban planner and educator talks about how his buildings aim to foster a sense of community, how space can promote inner peace, how cities can contribute to the health of a society.Considered a pioneer of low-cost housing, Mr. Doshi, 90, is thrilled to have been awarded the 2018 Pritzker Prize, architecture’s highest honor, which was announced on Wednesday. He is the first laureate from India, and worked with the 20th-century masters Le Corbusier and Louis Kahn.“It is a very wonderful thing that happened,” he said in a recent telephone interview from his home in Ahmedabad, a city that was once the center of the nonviolent struggle for Indian independence. The award will be bestowed on Mr. Doshi, the 45th laureate, at the Aga Khan Museum in Toronto in May. But Mr. Doshi’s 70-year career has always been about much more than prizes — of which he nevertheless has many — or international renown, of which he had relatively little, given that he is not a household name. Mr. Doshi has been consumed with larger issues like social good and sustainability. And he bemoans a culture and profession that he sees as overly concerned with the bottom line. “One is all the time looking at financial returns — that is not only what life is,” he said. “I think wellness is missing.” What Mr. Doshi means by “wellness,” he said, are considerations like how we can “connect with silence”; how “life can be lived at your own pace”; and “how do we avoid the use of an automobile.”The architect has brought this type of philosophical thinking to projects like his Aranya Low Cost Housing in Indore (1989), where more than 80,000 low- and middle-income residents now live in homes ranging from modest one-room units to spacious houses, with shared courtyards for families. He also designed mixed-income housing for a life insurance corporation in Ahmedabad (1973), which combines income groups on three floors of a pyramidal housing block approached through a common staircase. The Vidhyadhar Nagar Master Plan and Urban Design in Jaipur (1984) features channels for both water harvesting and distribution. (The Vidhyadhar housing plan recalled Mr. Doshi’s work with Le Corbusier in Chandigarh, with its wide central avenues, and a study of Jaipur’s Old City.)“Housing as shelter is but one aspect of these projects,” the Pritzker jury said in its citation. “The entire planning of the community, the scale, the creation of public, semipublic and private spaces are a testament to his understanding of how cities work and the importance of the urban design.”Mr. Doshi’s emphasis on communal spaces is reflected in his own work studio, Sangath (roughly translated as “moving together”), which includes a garden and outdoor amphitheater, spaces designed to foster the exchange of ideas. The mosaic tile in his studio also appears in the undulating roof of Mr. Doshi’s underground art gallery in Ahmedabad, Amdavad ni Gufa (1994), which features the artwork of Maqbool Fida Husain.Mr. Doshi described the gallery project as “a challenge between an artist and an architect to give birth to the most unexpected.”“Searching the uncommon meant raising fundamental questions,” he added, “meaning of function, meaning of space, meaning of technology, structure and form.” Education is central to Mr. Doshi’s work; he has taught and lectured all over the world. The architect said he has founded six schools, including the School of Architecture and Planning in Ahmedabad (1966-2012), where he is the dean emeritus. It was renamed CEPT University in 2002.His educational buildings include the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (1977-92), a series of interwoven streets, courts and classrooms inspired by traditional, mazelike temple cities in southern India. Born in Pune, India, in 1927, Mr. Doshi began his architecture studies in 1947 at the Sir JJ School of Architecture in Mumbai. He then moved to London and to Le Corbusier’s atelier in Paris, where in the 1950s he helped work on Chandigarh, the experimental Modernist city about 150 miles north of New Delhi. Mr. Doshi ultimately settled in Ahmedabad, where he helped supervise the construction of Le Corbusier’s Mill Owners’ Association Building (1954) and worked on other Corbusier projects, including the Sarabhai House in Ahmedabad (1955).In 1956, Mr. Doshi founded his own practice, Vastushilpa — now Vastushilpa Consultants — which has five partners and 60 employees.The firm’s more than 100 projects include the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (1962), on which Mr. Doshi worked as an associate for Louis Kahn — an occasional collaboration that lasted more than a decade. His work is deeply evocative of Indian history and culture, drawing on the grandeur of shrines and temples, the bustle of city streets and the local materials from his grandfather’s furniture workshop.  He does not set out to design an iconic structure. Rather, Mr. Doshi approaches his projects with an eye toward seeding miniature societies that its residents can expand and animate over time.“Architecture is not a static building — it’s a living organism,” he said. “How do we add on coffee shops, restaurants, bookshops, so you can use the building? Can we bring life into what we create?” “What is the role of an architect today?” Mr. Doshi added. “Are we going to be a service provider working for a client, or are we going to be useful to the society at large?”Robin Pogrebin is a reporter on the Culture Desk, where she covers the art world, architecture, cultural institutions and occasionally theater. She has also worked on the Business Desk, where she covered the media, and on the Metro Desk.  @rpogrebinFacebookAdvertisementBy KAI SCHULTZMARCH 28, 2018
NEW DELHI — An Indian publisher has removed from its online store a children’s book that included Hitler on a list of world leaders who “devoted their lives for the betterment of their country and people.”The book, titled “Leaders” but previously listed on the publisher’s website as “Great Leaders,” spotlights 11 world figures “who will inspire you.” On its cover, Hitler is featured alongside Barack Obama, Nelson Mandela and Mohandas K. Gandhi, among others.Published by the Pegasus imprint of B. Jain Publishing Group of India, the book came under fire this month after the Simon Wiesenthal Center, a global human rights organization researching the Holocaust and hate in historical and contemporary contexts, called the decision to include Hitler an “abomination.”In a statement released this week, Rabbi Abraham Cooper, associate director of the center, hailed the removal of the 48-page book from the publisher’s online store, where it was sold for about $1.70.“The children of this great nation should be reading ‘The Diary of Anne Frank,’ ” he said, “not a picture book that lists Hitler as a ‘great’ leader alongside Gandhi, Mandela, Modi, Churchill and Obama.”AdvertisementAnnshu Juneja, the publishing manager for Pegasus, did not respond to a question by email about why the book had been taken off the website. It is unclear when the book was removed.AdvertisementIn parts of Asia, atrocities committed in Nazi Germany are poorly understood, and Hitler is sometimes glorified as a strong, effective leader.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Rohee Dasgupta, an associate professor at the Jindal School of International Affairs who studies Jewish culture and identity, said that India’s history curriculum failed to educate students about the Holocaust.In 2004, high school textbooks used in the state of Gujarat spoke highly of Hitler, saying he had “made untiring efforts to make Germany self-reliant” and “instilled the spirit of adventure in the common people.” The book mentions only briefly the extermination of millions of Jews and others during World War II.“From the Indian perspective, it’s an ignorance of history,” Ms. Dasgupta said.Follow Kai Schultz on Twitter: @Kai_Schultz.A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Book Praising Hitler Is Cut  From Website.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsBy Fred Launay and John E. ScanlonJust seven years ago in India’s magnificent Manas National Park, there were no tigers to speak of, just a few remnants of a population wiped out after decades of civil unrest that left the park’s wildlife vulnerable to persecution.Now there are more than 30 tigers in Manas, a remarkable recovery achieved in record time thanks to a robust collaboration among the Indian Forest Department, local and international nongovernmental organizations, and law enforcement agencies, all working together to secure the park and protect it from poachers.The success in Manas shows that stopping poaching at the source can bring tigers back from the brink.But toppling the illegal trade in big cats and their parts requires coordinated action on a global scale: enacting and enforcing strict laws that criminalize wildlife trafficking; providing livelihoods for marginalized communities coerced by criminal poaching gangs to do their dirty work; and, as quickly as possible, reducing demand for big cats and their body parts by aiming at drivers like fashion and traditional medicine.It also requires that we prioritize saving the big cats for their intrinsic value as apex predators, critical species we would be the poorer for losing, ecologically, economically, culturally and morally.In the past 25 years, saving species has become less of a focus of the world’s policymakers than solving climate change. During this time, the resources needed to address the immediate threats to wildlife have not kept pace with the growing scale of these threats, and already pressured species like the big cats have become even more vulnerable to poaching and human encroachment.The argument is that addressing climate change is the most important thing we can do to preserve all life on our planet. But we also need to consider temporal factors.We can and must simultaneously address the interlinked imperatives of mitigating climate change and stemming the extinction crisis playing out right now. If not, by the time we achieve the 2050 goals of the Paris climate accord, it will be too late for the planet’s big cats.Worldwide, wild populations of cheetahs, clouded leopards, jaguars, leopards, lions, pumas, snow leopards and tigers have fallen at alarming rates, with much of the decline in the past 30 years. Meanwhile, subspecies continue to blink out on our watch. A newly published study of the Indochinese leopard in Eastern Cambodia, the last remaining population in all of Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam, showed a 72 percent decline in just the past five years. We estimate that there now are fewer than 100 leopards, signaling that local extinction could be just around the corner.The tiger recovery in Manas is working because intensive efforts have been brought to bear there to stop poaching and to disrupt the illegal wildlife supply chain.Remote camera traps placed covertly throughout the park capture images of passers-by and relay these photos in real time to law enforcement officials, who use the photos and other intelligence to identify wildlife poachers. This enables limited resources to be deployed efficiently: Specially trained rangers can pinpoint the poachers’ exact locations to set up ambushes and arrest them, while local aid groups focus on training community members in skills like farming, food preparation and weaving to reduce their dependence on forest products, an approach that’s proved effective in discouraging wood-gathering, fishing and other illegal activities in the park.These strategies are succeeding in some of the world’s most heavily poached landscapes. Tiger populations are recovering at key sites in Nepal, Thailand and Indonesia, and there is now hope for critically endangered lions in West Africa, where the poaching of their prey is one of the biggest threats.Big cats are resilient, but so are the criminals poaching them. In Bolivia, where jaguar hunting has been outlawed since the 1975 treaty on the international trade in endangered species banned the global trade of the animals’ coveted pelts, reports of a resurgence in jaguar killings have recently emerged. The journal Nature has reported that between August 2014 and February 2015, Bolivian authorities confiscated 186 jaguar fangs from packages bound for Asia. Radio ads broadcast in parts of the country offer $100 to $150 for jaguar fangs, most likely for necklaces to be sold as trinkets. Experts worry that as tiger parts become harder to obtain, a new illicit trade in jaguar parts will take hold.Conservation teams stationed in poaching hot spots are best positioned to anticipate emerging threats like these and respond quickly. Front line officers are striving to stay one step ahead of the criminals with counterintelligence; elite ranger training; and advanced technology borrowed from police and the military like night vision equipment, thermal drones and forensic genetics.Despite the insatiable and ever-changing demand for big cats and their parts, conservation groups and law enforcement agencies working together across the entire illegal supply chain — from source to transit to destination — have proved that they can disrupt the criminal networks that lie behind these serious crimes. Arrests, prosecutions and convictions of poachers are on the rise, and big cat populations — where diligently protected — are on the rebound.As the results in Manas show, a focused effort on locking down key tiger sites can increase tiger populations. A 2010 study by some of the world’s leading tiger experts suggested that it is relatively inexpensive to protect tiger sites effectively. Adjusted for current conditions — and excluding the investment already being made by governments, particularly India, as well as by international donors and nongovernmental organizations — it would take about another $50 million a year to secure the 50 or so remaining recoverable tiger sites across Asia.The same strategy of securing key protected areas can slow the killing of Africa’s rapidly dwindling lions, cheetahs and leopards, and the vast array of wildlife that shares those landscapes. A 2015 analysis estimated that effectively managing the more than 250 most important public protected areas for Africa’s cats would cost $1.25 billion a year.This is where governments, aid organizations, banks, corporations and other deep-pocketed funders must step forward and invest in conservation at the scale needed to secure the vast wild places big cats need to roam, hunt and breed.Last fall, researchers at Oxford University unveiled the first evidence-based model to illustrate how increased investment in conservation spending can lead to quantifiable improvements in biodiversity. The model used past data to show that global conservation spending between 1996 and 2008 reduced biodiversity loss by an average of 29 percent, and that countries that spent more had better outcomes.The researchers hope that the ability to quantify the effectiveness of conservation spending and predict future outcomes will help guide budget decisions and lead to the funding increases needed to prevent extinction of species. We hope so, too.Or perhaps such decisions will be driven by something less measurable: the value of these revered and critical predators as protectors of our planet’s wild landscapes and the life within them.Either way, let it not be said that we did too little, too late. With a collective commitment to adequately protecting their landscapes now, big cats could be on the road to recovery and organized wildlife criminals on the path to extinction.Fred Launay is the president and chief executive of the global wild cat conservation group Panthera. John E. Scanlon is the secretary-general of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementBy KAI SCHULTZMARCH 7, 2018
HYDERABAD, India — She was awarded one of India’s highest civilian honors, brushed aside a fatwa issued against her and has traveled extensively despite threats to her safety, but on a recent Monday, Sunitha Krishnan looked a bit unnerved.A few days earlier, several women posing as sex trafficking victims engineered an attack at a shelter Ms. Krishnan oversees about 35 miles from her office outside Hyderabad, in southern India. The women stormed a nursery filled with babies, smashed windows and stabbed staff with shards of glass, injuring a few of them seriously.At her desk, Ms. Krishnan recalled a sobering moment after learning of the attack.“As I was sitting here,” she said in an interview, “it suddenly sank in my brain: What if one of the children — ” She broke off. “What if one of them is hurt? I crashed completely. I was crying and crying and crying.”By “God’s grace,” she said, none of the babies were injured.For over two decades, Ms. Krishnan has led Prajwala, an organization that rescues women and children from sex traffickers in Hyderabad and across India. The stories are horrifying. During a TED Talk, Ms. Krishnan spoke of Shaheen, a toddler who was found near railway tracks and had been raped by so many men that her intestines were outside her body.AdvertisementIn rescue facilities, girls are fed, educated and trained to work as welders or carpenters, among other professions. The complex that was attacked has a capacity of 1,200 people, Ms. Krishnan said, making it the largest of its kind in the world.AdvertisementBut Ms. Krishnan has made enemies, typically furious traffickers who have seen their profits dry up as girls are plucked off the streets by the police and placed in Prajwala’s shelters. Millions of women and children work as sex slaves in India.Ms. Krishnan said brushes with violence were part of her “regular existence.” Besides sporadic attacks on the shelters, Ms. Krishnan dodged someone who tried to throw acid on her and witnessed the murder of a staff member by a group of pimps. She said she had been assaulted 17 times.She is just 4 feet 6 inches tall, and her body bears reminders of trauma. She has a bad back and has lost most of her hearing in one ear. But these incidents have only hardened Ms. Krishnan’s resolve.When a girl is brought to a shelter, she said, the damage is bone-deep. The “profile of the person I am getting,” Ms. Krishnan said, is someone who “hates me, abuses me, spits on my face, doesn’t tell me her real name, doesn’t tell me her real address, is so hostile and aggressive toward me, and is happy to escape from my clutches.”Of the 20,000 women and children that have been rescued, Ms. Krishnan said Prajwala had been able to keep tabs on 86 percent of them, with many slowly regaining their ability to trust others. The remaining number are often trafficked again.“We’re not 100 percent successful, but we’re not 100 percent a failure either,” she said. “We have demonstrated to the world that it is possible to change.”Born in 1972 to a lower middle-class family in Bangalore, Ms. Krishnan said she stood out from a young age. There was her pain tolerance, she said, and her “extraordinary ability to bring people together.” Ms. Krishnan was also cunning, helping her to outmaneuver the traffickers she confronts today, she said.AdvertisementBy her teens, Ms. Krishnan had become a “hard-core social worker.” But her interest in working with sex-trafficked women did not develop until she was 15, when Ms. Krishnan was sexually assaulted by eight men while working on a literacy campaign in a village.It was this episode, and the anger she felt toward people who tried to write her off as a victim, that propelled Ms. Krishnan to start Prajwala.“I don’t deny that I was a victim,” she said. “I don’t deny that I also took a lot of space and time to recover from that. But my healing was self-determined, and that is why I call myself a survivor.”In the afternoon, Ms. Krishnan climbed into a truck and sped off to the city’s high court, where she was meeting with a judge to discuss legislation to criminalize the buying of sex in the state of Andhra Pradesh, which includes Hyderabad.She reminisced about the past, breaking conversation to curtly steer her driver through impossibly thick traffic and to remind a reporter that the area was the perfect tinderbox for communal riots.This thought led Ms. Krishnan to recall one of her blunders. In 2012, a group of Muslims accused Ms. Krishnan of defaming women in the community by identifying them as prostitutes to secure foreign funding.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In response, Ms. Krishnan asked the women to sign declarations acknowledging that they were prostitutes and that, for this reason, their children were enrolled in Ms. Krishnan’s schools. Shortly after, a mob stormed one of Prajwala’s centers and beat some of the women.“People came with swords and chains and all kinds of weapons to cut us into multiple pieces and throw us into the Musi River,” she said, referring to a tributary that cuts through Hyderabad.Now Ms. Krishnan is especially conscious of protecting women’s identities, rarely granting interviews or allowing access to the shelters.AdvertisementAs the truck inched forward, Ms. Krishnan lamented that her story was too often reduced to the sexual assault she experienced. Still, she felt it was necessary to remind people of the importance of the work.“If I, a small nobody with no background, nothing, just a small little 4 feet and 6 inches, can do what I’m doing,” she said, “then more people can do what has to be done.”At an entrance to the high court, Ms. Krishnan threw open her door, held up a hand to stop traffic and disappeared into the crowd.Follow Kai Schultz on Twitter: @Kai_Schultz.A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SUHASINI RAJ and KAI SCHULTZMARCH 3, 2018
NEW DELHI — When an Indian journalist was shot and killed outside her home one warm night in September, news of her death reverberated across the country.The connection between the death of Gauri Lankesh and her work — which was often sharply critical of India’s governing party — was not lost on observers. Rahul Gandhi, an opposition leader, wrote on Twitter at the time that anybody who “speaks against” the Bharatiya Janata Party and Hindu nationalist groups affiliated with it are “attacked & even killed.”That theory was back into the spotlight on Friday when the authorities detained Naveen Kumar, the founder of the far-right group Hindu Yuva Sena, according to Bijay Kumar Singh, the leader of a special team formed to investigate Ms. Lankesh’s death.“He is in our custody for interrogation,” Mr. Singh said by telephone on Saturday.During her career, Ms. Lankesh, 55, had occasionally been sued after being accused of defamation by leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The journalist, who lived alone in the city of Bangalore, in southern India, was known as a “rationalist,” a term in India for people who stand against superstition and the use of religion in politics.AdvertisementWhen the Bharatiya Janata Party rose to power in 2014 with the election of Narendra Modi as prime minister, hard-line groups connected with his party amplified calls to transform India into a “Hindu nation” by shrinking space for religious minorities.AdvertisementThe day before she was killed, Ms. Lankesh shared a post on Facebook, written by someone else, that called the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, another far-right Hindu group, a “terrorist organization.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kumar was arrested by the police in Bangalore on Feb. 18 on suspicion of illegal possession of bullets.But local news media reports said the authorities had reason to believe Mr. Kumar might have been involved in a far more serious crime, citing voluntary statements by friends of his. The friends said Mr. Kumar had alluded in conversations to his involvement in Ms. Lankesh’s death.According to The Indian Express, the special investigations team looking into Ms. Lankesh’s killing appeared before a local court and submitted a sealed confession in which Mr. Kumar admitted his involvement in the crime.Over the weekend, other far-right organizations distanced themselves from Mr. Kumar.“Just because we got together to work on common issues related to Hindutva does not mean we are responsible for his actions,” said Ramesh Shinde, a spokesman for the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti, a group that has worked with Mr. Kumar.In the past few years, three activists opposed to the rise of hard-line Hinduism in the political sphere have been killed in similar circumstances.Follow Suhasini Raj and Kai Schultz on Twitter: @suhasiniraj and @Kai_Schultz.A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2018, on Page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Suspect Held in Indian Journalist’s Death.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Many people, including many Republican lawmakers, dismiss President Trump’s attacks on The Washington Post, CNN and other news organizations as just one of those crazy — but ultimately harmless — things he does to blow off steam. They’re wrong.Yes, Mr. Trump hasn’t been able to implement many of his worst proposals to undermine the press. Congress hasn’t tried to change the First Amendment or pass new libel laws, for example, and journalists — including at the “failing New York Times” — regularly unearth new scandals in the Trump administration. But the president’s rhetoric is clearly having an effect in the United States and especially around the world, where political leaders have seen it as a green light to crack down on the press. Malaysian lawmakers this week passed a law that would impose prison sentences of up to six years on people found to be spreading “fake news,” an ill-defined term that will put tremendous power in the hands of government officials to punish journalists and publishers. In India, the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed revoking the accreditation of journalists who traffic in “fake news” before scrapping the idea after journalists denounced it.In recent days, Mr. Trump turned his guns on The Post, accusing it of trying to advance the business interests of its owner, Jeff Bezos, and the company he founded and runs, Amazon. Much has been made of the accusations the president has hurled at Amazon’s business practices, like its unwillingness for many years to collect state and local sales taxes. Some of these practices are indeed troubling. But don’t be distracted. Mr. Trump isn’t really distressed about the coffers of state and local governments, small retailers or whether the United States Postal Service suffers losses delivering Amazon packages. He is trying to undermine the credibility of The Post because it is holding his administration to account.Such attacks on the integrity of news organizations confuse the public about what’s true. Many Republican voters have long been skeptical of the mainstream news media, but their trust in it has fallen sharply since 2016, according to the Pew Research Center. And a study by two Yale professors found that Republicans were much more likely to trust hyperpartisan media outlets and news sites that peddle outright falsehoods than are Democrats. That phenomenon has undoubtedly been bolstered by Mr. Trump’s embrace of conspiracy theories and his endorsements of Fox News and Sinclair Broadcasting, which has compelled news anchors at its local TV stations to read outrageous statements questioning the credibility of other news organizations.“Trump seems to be succeeding just through the force of his daily verbal assaults in shaking trust in the press and in other institutions that are crucial to our democracy,” says Jameel Jaffer, director of the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University.When the president calls every piece of information he does not like “fake news,” he also encourages politicians in other countries who are not constrained by constitutional free speech protections or independent judiciaries to more aggressively squelch the press. They know that there will be little international condemnation of their actions because one of the most important standard bearers for a free press — the American government — is led by a man trying to discredit the free press.Malaysia’s democracy is clearly flawed — the same coalition has ruled it since it became independent in 1957, and it has jailed opposition leaders on trumped-up charges — but it is not in the same league as countries like China and Russia, where freedom of speech is extremely circumscribed. By criminalizing “fake news,” it is heading in that direction. Indian democracy is much hardier, but journalists and free speech advocates are worried about the government’s hostility toward an independent press and fear it will become even more aggressive as next year’s parliamentary elections draw closer.This is not a problem just in these countries. The Committee to Protect Journalists has documented an uptick in attacks on the press in Egypt, Myanmar, Poland, Turkey and other countries. Last year, 21 journalists were imprisoned for reporting false news, twice as many as the year before, according to the committee.Mr. Trump is unlikely to change his ways, and his most loyal supporters will support him no matter what he does. It is up to everybody else, Republicans and Democrats alike, to stand up and speak out against his destructive attacks on the press and the truth.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy SALIM VALJIMARCH 30, 2018
EDMONTON, Alberta — Less than 100 games into his N.H.L. career, Edmonton Oilers forward Jujhar Khaira has already received an honor that has eluded many of the sport’s biggest stars: being mentioned in an official sitting of the Canadian Parliament, in front of the prime minister.On March 7, 2017, Randeep Sarai, a member of Parliament representing Surrey Centre, said in a speech in Ottawa: “As a hockey dad, I know it’s every Canadian kid’s dream to be in the N.H.L. One such dream is Surrey’s own, 6-foot-4, Edmonton Oiler No. 54, Jujhar Khaira. On Jan. 16, he scored his first N.H.L. goal on the Arizona Coyotes.”Khaira, 23, is nearing the end of his first full season in the N.H.L., where he is the only active player of Indian descent. He is one of three Indians to play in the league, following Manny Malhotra, who finished a 16-season career in 2015, and the 1990s enforcer Robin Bawa.While Khaira is accustomed to the attention that comes with representing a minority in a predominantly white league, he was still taken aback when he found out about Sarai’s comments in the House of Commons.Advertisement“I got a lot of texts from family and friends saying they heard it,” Khaira said after a recent Oilers practice. “I don’t know how to describe it, it’s just really, really cool.”AdvertisementSarai went on to praise Harnarayan Singh, a Punjabi broadcaster for “Hockey Night in Canada” whose “Bonino, Bonino, Bonino” call during the 2016 Stanley Cup finals went viral after Pittsburgh Penguins forward Nick Bonino scored the winning goal in Game 1 against the San Jose Sharks. Since its inception in 2000, the Punjabi broadcast has grown from niche programming to essential viewing for thousands of hockey fans.The Bonino call has been viewed more than 270,000 times on YouTube, and Singh and his team earned an invitation to the Penguins’ victory parade.On Thursday, when the Vancouver Canucks hosted the Oilers, the Punjabi broadcasters and all three Indian N.H.L. players were in the building as part of South Asian Celebration Night. It was the first such event hosted by an N.H.L. team. Malhotra and Bawa played for the Canucks, and Bawa, like Khaira, grew up in British Columbia.According to a 2016 Statistics Canada survey, approximately 4 percent of Canadians are of Indian descent. Khaira’s parents are part of that group, having come to Canada from India when they were children.His mother, Komal Khaira, grew up in Victoria, British Columbia, while his father, Sukhjinder Khaira, grew up in Clearwater, a community of roughly 2,300 people in the province’s interior. They met while students at the University of Victoria, where they were accomplished volleyball players. Khaira’s father also competed at the provincial level.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Growing up as a kid, we had a big property, so we were always outside, and Mom and Dad were always outside with us playing all kinds of sports,” Khaira said. “We had an opportunity to do everything.”In 2012 he was drafted by the Edmonton Oilers in the third round out of the British Columbia Junior Hockey League. After a year in the N.C.A.A. at Michigan Tech, Khaira played the 2013-14 season under Kevin Constantine with the Everett Silvertips of the Western Hockey League.Constantine remembers Khaira well as a high-character individual and a player with a legitimate shot at an N.H.L. career.Advertisement“When I had players to my house, he was always the first into the kitchen after the meal to ask my wife if there was anything he could do to help,” said Constantine, who now coaches the South Korean Daemyung Killer Whales of Asia League Ice Hockey.Khaira, whose favorite player growing up was power forward Todd Bertuzzi, did not hesitate to stick up for teammates.“He had no problem with opponents playing the game hard against him,” Constantine said. “But he had a much shorter fuse when he saw opponents do something he thought inappropriate to teammates.”Khaira spent three years in the American Hockey League, twice earning call-ups to Edmonton. After signing a two-year contract extension this summer, he made the Oilers’ roster out of training camp. After a roller-coaster season for both himself and the team, Khaira remains acutely aware of his potential impact on other players of Indian descent.“I remember, when I was a kid watching ‘Hockey Night in Canada,’ and my brother and I would go in the basement and play mini sticks, and whoever we saw that scored a goal on ‘Hockey Night in Canada,’ we’d want to be that person,” he said. “So if it’s anything like that, I think it’s pretty special.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported bylensBy Jonathan BlausteinGiven the partisan tumult of 2017, many Americans probably feel like they could use a cold shower or a hot bath. In stressful times like these, it can help to find a relaxation regimen, which might explain the popularity of Eastern traditions like tai chi, qigong and yoga.The photographer Andy Richter, a Minnesota native and former ski patrolman, has been devoted to his yoga practice since 2004. In 2012, he set out on a mission to deeply explore yoga, including visiting with many masters.“The times we’re living in, there’s a lot of pressure on us that is really nonstop,” he said. “We need tools and ways to be able to control our inner state. I’m not just there trying to illustrate a posture or pose. I’m trying to tune into what’s going on before me, and really transmit this inner experience that the yogi in front of me is having.”After five years of travel — and likely some sore muscles — during which he photographed everyone from enlightened beings to pregnant teens, his resulting project, “Serpent in the Wilderness,” was published by Kehrer Verlag and will be on view in several exhibitions this year.He spent time in India, where yoga originated, but also photographed in places like Denver, Colo.; Encinitas, Calif.; and a longtime Sikh community in northern New Mexico. Together, the photographs present a diverse look at an ancient practice that has been adapted to our contemporary times. It is also a personal perspective."These pictures represent my own walk through yoga,” he said. “They’re not all-encompassing, or representing yoga all around the world in all of its forms. It’s my own exploration, my own contemplation, and where I’ve been led to. I feel grateful for opportunity to have been in the presence of all of these amazing people.”The book is rendered in warm, glowing colors: yellows, tangerines and ochres. Whether they show richly-hued cotton robes, vibrant flower petals or light reflecting off the Ganges, the series of photographs is stunning.While yoga has been associated with wisdom for more than 5,000 years, in American society, it has often been co-opted and commodified. But Mr. Richter thinks its greatest benefit is priceless, in more ways than one. “None of this is bought or sold, what we’re talking about here,” he said. “None is even available for any cost. It requires us to slow down, to still our minds, and to find a way to get our senses under control.”He is trying to veer away from this commercial view, which often is a humorously-expected-vision of yoga."Often in photographs, it is a beautiful woman in soft light, in a studio context, with certain branded attire on,” he said. “It’s not representing anything, in terms of what depth of what yoga is.”One image in the series depicts almost the exact opposite of that stereotype. In 2016, during one of his many trips to India, Mr. Richter found himself in a situation that sounds like something out of a storybook. He was in a cave, photographing a silent hermit who lived there, isolated from the world. They’d known each other for years, so he made sure to bring tobacco, fruit, and milk, along with his tripod and cable release."It was pretty incredible to be sitting there with this silent yogi, who basically wears a loin cloth, and lives in the forest,” he said. “We’re listening to music from all over world on my phone. I’ve been waiting for a long time for anything like this to happen. He’d never done yoga for me. He’d never meditated. It was amazing, and it happened very fast.”Fittingly, given the almost postmodern nature of this tale, despite yoga’s health benefits, after 15 minutes of practice, the silent yogi was pooped."He did all these yoga poses, these headstands, and more dramatic asana, and then he was huffing and puffing,” he recalled. “So he lay down, and lit up a cigarette, and was like, that’s it.”Jonathan Blaustein is an artist and writer based in New Mexico. He contributes regularly to the blog A Photo Editor.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementBy ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018
A powerful Indian politician was sentenced on Saturday to 14 years in prison for embezzling 37 million rupees from a state government’s treasury while he was the state’s top elected official.The politician, Lalu Prasad Yadav, was convicted of embezzling the equivalent of $570,000, to buy fictitious medicines and cattle fodder while he was chief minister of Bihar State from 1990 to 1997.Mr. Yadav, who already had been convicted three times in related cases, was also fined $92,307.Eighteen former Bihar State officials, contractors and suppliers were also sentenced in the case to jail terms ranging from three and a half to five years.Mr. Yadav, 69, who served as India’s railways minister from 2004 to 2009, was shifted to a hospital from a prison earlier this month, after he complained of chest pains in Ranchi, the capital of Jharkhand State.AdvertisementCorruption is endemic in Indian politics, and judges are expediting trials of lawmakers accused of crimes including murder, fraud and extortion after a Supreme Court order to reach verdicts within one year in such cases.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.About 15 percent of Indian lawmakers are facing court trials on criminal charges, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms, an activist group.Mr. Yadav turned his political party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, or the National People’s Party, into a family enterprise, with his wife, two sons and a daughter running it.AdvertisementThe daughter is a member of India’s Parliament, and the two sons have become lawmakers in Bihar.Indian lawmakers are barred from running in elections if they are found guilty of offenses carrying a jail term of at least two years. As such, Mr. Yadav is barred from contesting elections.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Global Health By                     
 DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
 
MARCH 16, 2018
“Hippocratic,” a documentary about the life of Dr. M.R. Rajagopal, India’s leading advocate of palliative care, is now touring the United States — a country where attitudes toward pain relief have changed because of the overdose epidemic.Dr. Rajagopal’s chief message — and that of the film — is that the essence of care for the dying is simple compassion. His inspiration came from Mahatma Gandhi, said Dr. Rajagopal, who in 2014 won a global award from Human Rights Watch for his activism.But for a doctor, part of compassion is relieving pain when a patient’s tumors have become so large, burns so deep or wounds so grievous that they are beyond cure, Dr. Rajagopal said. And that usually can be done only with opioid-based pain relievers — like morphine and fentanyl.People in agony may kill themselves, and the film recalls such cases.But opioids have been demonized in recent years because so many young Americans — often prescribed narcotic pills for dental or back pain rather than for fatal illnesses — have become addicted and gone on to use heroin, street fentanyl or other concoctions, sometimes with fatal consequences.AdvertisementAmerica’s crisis “is an issue,” even in India, Dr. Rajagopal said in an interview before “Hippocratic” was screened in New York on Tuesday. “It stopped the boat.”AdvertisementIndian poppy fields supply much of the world’s legally grown opium, and the two government plants where it is refined were allowed to fall into disrepair, and then were blamed for pollution and sometimes shut down temporarily, he said, which drove up the prices of normally cheap palliative care drugs.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But the opioid crisis in the United States has not affected every struggling country.On indexes measuring how well countries deliver care to the dying, Mongolia does unusually well, despite its poverty. The credit for that goes to Dr. Odontuya Davaasuren, founder of the Mongolian Palliative Care Society, who learned about palliative care only 18 years ago, at a conference in Sweden.Death from liver cancer, common in Mongolia, is often excruciatingly painful. In an email, Dr. Davaasuren said her country imported only small amounts of morphine and had no drug-abuse problem.“Not so many Mongolians understand English, and information about the American overdose epidemic did not reach most of the population,” she wrote.She was reluctant to discuss the issue further, she said, for fear that health officials would take notice, get worried and make her work harder.The 88-minute documentary “Hippocratic” is in theaters in the United States and Canada until April 17.Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter.A version of this article appears in print on March 20, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Challenging Stereotypes About Opioids.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SAMEER YASIRMARCH 18, 2018
SRINAGAR, Kashmir — Five members of a family were killed and two others were wounded by shelling in the Indian-controlled portion of Kashmir on Sunday, residents and officials said.Over the weekend, India and Pakistan were engaged in cross-border shelling along the Line of Control, which divides Kashmir between the two countries. Indian officials said Pakistani troops had fired a mortar shell that hit the family’s home.A couple and their children were gathered for breakfast on Sunday morning when the shell tore through the roof of their home in the southern Poonch region of Kashmir.“When we heard the blasts, we ran for our lives,” Ghulam Nissar Khan, a neighbor, said by telephone. “After the hue and cry fizzled out, we rushed to the house and found the bodies.”AdvertisementChoudhary Mohammad Ramzan, 45, and Malka Bi, 45, and their sons — Muhammad Rehman, 19, Muhammad Rizwan, 18, and Muhammad Razaq, 8 — were all killed.AdvertisementTariq Ahmad Zargar, a deputy commissioner in Poonch, said by telephone that the couple’s daughters, Nooren, 14, and Marin, 7, were wounded. They were airlifted to the city of Jammu for treatment.At least five Indian soldiers were wounded in a separate episode in the same area, Indian officials said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Pakistan said 10 civilians on the Pakistani-controlled side had been wounded in shelling by Indian troops.Kashmir has endured brutal conflict for decades as the subject of a territorial dispute between India, which controls much of the territory, and Pakistan. Fighting has worsened since India accused a Pakistan-based militant organization of carrying out a deadly attack last month on its base in Jammu that left 10 people dead.For almost every week since then, the two sides have accused each other of violating a 2003 cease-fire agreement with unprovoked gunfire and the killing of civilians and soldiers. Diplomatic relations have been strained. Last week, Pakistan recalled its envoy to India, saying that Pakistani diplomats and their families were being harassed by Indian security agencies.Despite the cease-fire agreement — which ensured some peace for those living along the tense Line of Control, which stretches about 465 miles and splits Kashmir into two — many residents live in fear.Last month, more than 5,000 civilians were forced to abandon their homes after Indian and Pakistani troops started shelling each other’s locations across the Line of Control. People in shelter camps have refused to go back to their homes until the fighting stops.Mehbooba Mufti, the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir State, expressed anguish over the loss of lives and emphasized the need for peace in the area. “My deepest condolences to their family,” she wrote on Twitter.
            Anguished to hear of 5 people losing their lives in the crossfire along the LoC in the Balakote sector of Poonch. My deepest condolences to their family.        Kai Schultz contributed reporting from New Delhi.Follow Sameer Yasir on Twitter: @sameeryasir.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KAI SCHULTZMARCH 8, 2018
NEW DELHI — Shammi, an actress who appeared in some 200 Bollywood films and was beloved for her comedic roles as doting sisters, mothers and grandmothers, died on Tuesday at her home in Mumbai. She was 89.Pandhari Nath Chavhan, an employee at the crematory where she was taken, confirmed her death, which he said came after a long illness.Shammi, whose real name was Nargis Rabadi, began her career in 1949, when a family friend working in the movie industry arranged a meeting between her and the actor and producer Sheikh Mukhtar to discuss a role in a film he was working on called “Ustad Pedro.”Mr. Mukhtar was worried at first about casting a young woman who had never acted before, and he pressed her about whether her Hindi was good enough to pull off the role. “He asked me, ‘What about your Hindi? You are Parsi,’ ” Ms. Rabadi recalled in an interview. “I immediately replied, ‘But I am talking to you just now in Hindi, so you can find out whether I am talking properly or not.’ ”AdvertisementA friend told Ms. Rabadi that she had been “stupid” for talking back to Mr. Mukhtar. But shortly after the meeting, she was offered the role. “Sheikh Mukhtar liked my spirit,” she said.AdvertisementNargis Rabadi was born in Mumbai, then called Bombay, to a family of Parsis, followers of Zoroaster. Her father, who died when she was 3, was a priest in a temple. After his death, Ms. Rabadi’s mother cooked at religious functions for extra cash.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Rabadi and her elder sister, Mani, helped out by working in a toy factory run by the Indian multinational company Tata. The girls’ tuition was covered in exchange for a few hours of work after classes.Following Ms. Rabadi’s acting break in 1949, she appeared mostly in supporting roles in a career that stretched over 60 years, including as the lovable grandmother Choti Nani on the popular sitcom “Dekh Bhai Dekh.” Known for her comedic timing, she attributed her long career to her eagerness for work of any kind.“I did whatever role came to me and did not just wait for big roles,” she once said.Ms. Rabadi said her one big mistake in life was getting married. Her marriage to the director Sultan Ahmed lasted seven years and proved a trying time for Ms. Rabadi, who suffered two miscarriages. Her way of ending the marriage was simply to walk away.“One day, I just walked out of the house,” she said. “I was too independent and would not take any nonsense from anyone.”She is survived by a son, Iqbal Rizvi.As Ms. Rabadi aged, acting sustained her. Looking back on her career in 2012, she said it was “unimaginable” for her not to be working.“Recently someone Googled me and found out I had done nearly 200 films,” she said. “I was amazed. When did I do all these films?”At her funeral in Mumbai, Bollywood stars paid their respects.“For everybody in the industry, she is Shammi Aunty,” said Farah Khan, a producer and an old friend. “She was so full of life. I don’t know of a single person who met her and didn’t love her.”Suhasini Raj contributed reporting.Follow Kai Schultz on Twitter: @Kai_Schultz.A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2018, on Page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: Shammi, 89, Comedic Bollywood Actress.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SAMEER YASIRAPRIL 1, 2018
SHOPIAN, Kashmir — An Indian Army operation against militants fighting Indian rule in the Muslim-majority Kashmir Valley killed at least 12 militants on Sunday, the largest one-day death toll of insurgents in recent years, officials in Kashmir said.At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were wounded in the army crackdown in the district of Shopian, according to the Kashmir authorities.Army officials called the operation a major success. “It is a special day for our forces,” Lt. Gen. A. K. Bhatt said.Kashmir — caught in a territorial dispute between Hindu-majority India, which controls much of the territory, and Muslim-majority Pakistan — has endured brutal conflict for decades.AdvertisementA violent secession movement that started in the late 1980s saw many guerrilla fighters crossing the border from Pakistan into India. In turn, India increased its military presence in the region to try to quell the uprising.AdvertisementThe insurgency accelerated after Indian forces killed a charismatic militant leader,  Burhan Muzaffar Wani, in July 2016. Since then, the frequency of protests against Indian rule has increased. This year, dozens of people, including many civilians, have been killed in the fighting.On Sunday, as a gun battle raged in the village of Draged-Sugan, where at least seven of the militants were killed, protesters took to the streets to demonstrate against Indian security forces.Many of the protesters threw stones at the security personnel in an apparent attempt to provide cover for the militants, members of the Hizbul Mujahedeen and Lashkar-e-Taiba groups.“For as long as the last Kashmiri is alive, we will come out to support militants,” said Numaan Ahmad Malik, 27, a college student, who was wounded in the clashes and was treated at a hospital.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Indian officers retaliated by firing pellet guns and rifles with live ammunition into the crowd, and the state government shut down the internet in an effort to prevent further protests from being organized online.Many of the injured sustained bullet wounds or pellet injuries, officials said. Shesh Paul Vaid, the top Indian police officer in the region, said that 213 militants were killed last year — the largest number in seven years.Around the village of Kachdora, where another gun battle unfolded on Sunday, shots and tear gas pierced the sky.“For every 10 killed, 20 more will join until this land is freed from Indian occupation,” said Imtiyaz Ahmad, a protester in Kachdora.Kai Schultz contributed reporting from New Delhi.A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Muslim Protests Turn Deadly in Kashmir.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By AISHA KHAN

MARCH 8, 2018

In her 36 years, Madhubala starred in more than 70 movies, often portraying modern young women testing the limits of traditions.
Since 1851, obituaries in The New York Times have been dominated by white men. Now, we’re adding the stories of remarkable women.1933-1969A Bollywood legend whose tragic life mirrored Marilyn Monroe’s.By AISHA KHAN MARCH 8, 2018It was probably the first ghost story in Indian cinema. A bewildered young man in a mansion chasing glimpses of an ethereal, veiled beauty. The movie, “Mahal,” was a huge success, making the lead actress, Madhubala, who was barely 16, a superstar overnight.Nearly seven decades later, strains of the film’s signature song, “Aayega aane wala” (He will come), are instantly recognizable to most Indians, evoking the suspenseful tale of lost love and reincarnation.By AMISHA PADNANI and JESSICA BENNETT MARCH 8, 2018Obituary writing is more about life than death: the last word, a testament to a human contribution.Yet who gets remembered — and how — inherently involves judgment. To look back at the obituary archives can, therefore, be a stark lesson in how society valued various achievements and achievers.Since 1851, The New York Times has published thousands of obituaries: of heads of state, opera singers, the inventor of Stove Top stuffing and the namer of the Slinky. The vast majority chronicled the lives of men, mostly white ones; even in the last two years, just over one in five of our subjects were female.Charlotte Brontë wrote “Jane Eyre”; Emily Warren Roebling oversaw construction of the Brooklyn Bridge when her husband fell ill; Madhubala transfixed Bollywood; Ida B. Wells campaigned against lynching. Yet all of their deaths went unremarked in our pages, until now.Below you’ll find obituaries for these and others who left indelible marks but were nonetheless overlooked. We’ll be adding to this collection each week, as Overlooked becomes a regular feature in the obituaries section, and expanding our lens beyond women.You can use this form to nominate candidates for future “Overlooked” obits. Read an essay from our obituaries editor about how he approaches subjects and learn more about how the project came to be.1862-1931Took on racism in the Deep South with powerful reporting on lynchings.By CAITLIN DICKERSON MARCH 8, 2018It was not all that unusual when, in 1892, a mob dragged Thomas Moss out of a Memphis jail in his pajamas and shot him to death over a feud that began with a game of marbles. But his lynching changed history because of its effect on one of the nation’s most influential journalists, who was also the godmother of his first child: Ida B. Wells.“It is with no pleasure that I have dipped my hands in the corruption here exposed,” Wells wrote in 1892 in the introduction to “Southern Horrors,” one of her seminal works about lynching, “Somebody must show that the Afro-American race is more sinned against than sinning, and it seems to have fallen upon me to do so.”c. 1875-1907A feminist poet and revolutionary who became a martyr known as China’s ‘Joan of Arc.’By AMY QIN MARCH 8, 2018With her passion for wine, swords and bomb making, Qiu Jin was unlike most women born in late 19th-century China. As a girl, she wrote poetry and studied Chinese martial heroines like Hua Mulan (yes, that Mulan) fantasizing about one day seeing her own name in the history books.But her ambitions ran up against China’s deeply rooted patriarchal society, which held that a woman’s place remained in the home. Undeterred, Qiu rose to become an early and fierce advocate for the liberation of Chinese women, defying prevailing Confucian gender and class norms by unbinding her feet, cross-dressing and leaving her young family to pursue an education abroad.1852-1886Established what may have been America’s first tennis court in the 1870s.By AMISHA PADNANI MARCH 8, 2018Mary Ewing Outerbridge didn’t have an easy time bringing tennis to America in 1874.First she had to get past customs agents. And they were suspicious. What was this large net? Clearly it wasn’t for fishing, they said. And what were these stringed things with long handles?1923-1971A photographer whose portraits have compelled or repelled generations of viewers.By JAMES ESTRIN MARCH 8, 2018Diane Arbus was a daughter of privilege who spent much of her adult life documenting those on the periphery of society. Since she killed herself in 1971, her unblinking portraits have made her a seminal figure in modern-day photography and an influence on three generations of photographers, though she is perhaps just as famous for her unconventional lifestyle and her suicide.1945-1992A transgender pioneer and activist who was a fixture of Greenwich Village street life.By SEWELL CHAN MARCH 8, 2018Marsha P. Johnson was an activist, a prostitute, a drag performer and, for nearly three decades, a fixture of street life in Greenwich Village. She was a central figure in a gay liberation movement energized by the 1969 police raid on the Stonewall Inn. She was a model for Andy Warhol. She battled severe mental illness. She was usually destitute and, for much of her life, effectively homeless.When she died at 46, under murky circumstances, in summer 1992, Johnson was mourned by her many friends, but her death did not attract much notice in the mainstream press.1932-1963A postwar poet unafraid to confront her own despair.By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS MARCH 8, 2018She made sure to spare the children, leaving milk and bread for the two toddlers to find when they woke up. She stuffed the cracks of the doors and windows with cloths and tea towels. Then she turned on the gas.On the morning of Feb. 11, 1963, a Monday, a nurse found the poet Sylvia Plath in her flat on Fitzroy Road in London, an address where W.B. Yeats had once lived. She was “lying on the floor of the kitchen with her head resting on the oven,” according to a local paper, the St. Pancras Chronicle.1920-1951Cancer cells were taken from her body without permission. They led to a medical revolution.By ADEEL HASSAN MARCH 8, 2018She never traveled farther than Baltimore from her family home in southern Virginia, but her cells have traveled around the earth and far above it, too.She was buried in an unmarked grave, but the trillions of those cells — generated from a tiny patch taken from her body — are labeled in university labs and biotechnology companies across the world, where they continue to spawn and to play the critical role in a 67-year parade of medical advances.1843-1903Oversaw the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge after her engineer husband fell ill.By JESSICA BENNETT MARCH 8, 2018It was not customary for a woman to accompany a man to a construction site in the late 19th century. Petticoats tended to get in the way of physical work.But when Washington A. Roebling, the chief engineer of the Brooklyn Bridge, fell ill, it was his wife, Emily Warren Roebling, who stepped in — managing, liaising and politicking between city officials, workers, and her husband’s bedside to see the world’s first steel-wire suspension bridge to completion. She would become the first person to cross the bridge, too — carrying a rooster with her, as the story has it, for good luck.1891-1964A Harlem Renaissance-era writer whose heritage informed her modernist take on the topic of race.By BONNIE WERTHEIM MARCH 8, 2018When Nella Larsen died, in 1964, she left little behind: a ground-floor apartment, two published novels, some short stories, a few letters. She was childless, divorced and estranged from her half sister, who, in some accounts, upon learning she was to inherit $35,000 of Larsen’s savings, denied knowing the writer existed.It was a fitting end for a woman whose entire life had been a story of swift erasure.1815-1852A gifted mathematician who is now recognized as the first computer programmer.By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER MARCH 8, 2018A century before the dawn of the computer age, Ada Lovelace imagined the modern-day, general-purpose computer. It could be programmed to follow instructions, she wrote in 1843. It could not just calculate but also create, as it “weaves algebraic patterns just as the Jacquard loom weaves flowers and leaves.”The computer she was writing about, the British inventor Charles Babbage’s Analytical Engine, was never built. But her writings about computing have earned Lovelace — who died of uterine cancer in 1852 at 36 — recognition as the first computer programmer.1878-1955The first American woman to win an Olympic championship.By MARGALIT FOX MARCH 8, 2018The first American woman to win an Olympic championship died without ever knowing what she had achieved.That woman, Margaret Abbott, won the ladies’ golf competition, as the event was genteelly known, at the 1900 Games in Paris. She received a gilded porcelain bowl, a smattering of coverage in the newspapers and then nothing.How one editor’s personal thoughts on diversity led to Overlooked.
     Also, a look at our efforts to collect data and an explanation of how obituaries are chosen. Learn more about The New York Times Gender Initiative here.AdvertisementBy ALICE NEWELL-HANSONMARCH 16, 2018

CreditFlora Hanitijo        Outside Naina Shah and Abhishek Honawar’s Manhattan apartment, the sky is the color of raw concrete. But inside the couple’s airy East Village apartment, which smells faintly of Assam tea and glints with eye-catching Indian regional crafts — miniature caskets inlaid with mother-of-pearl, hand-woven kauna grass baskets, carved wooden spirit masks collected on their travels through Rajasthan, Kerala and Goa — everything sparkles with light.Shah creates intricate decorations for European and American fashion houses using traditional Indian craftsmanship; she and her mother run the Mumbai-based bespoke embroidery company Aditiany, which produces hand-finished embellishments for the likes of Gucci, Erdem and Alexander McQueen. Honawar, a hotelier and restaurateur, operates, among other properties, the five-bedroom hotel 28 Kothi in Jaipur — a terraced jewel box of a guesthouse owned by Siddharth Kasliwal, an heir to Jaipur’s legendary jewelry emporium the Gem Palace. In the eight years since the pair started dating, and the two since they were married in Jaipur, Honawar and Shah’s respective creative worlds have become inextricable.You have likely already seen Shah’s work, possibly without realizing it. The gold sequin snakes that wound up on the Renaissance-inspired gowns of Gucci’s cruise 2018 collection are the handiwork of Aditiany artisans. Each iridescent sea-foam-green sequin on the shimmering Calvin Klein dress that Lupita Nyong’o wore to the 2016 Met Gala was applied, by hand, at the company’s Mumbai atelier. Shah, who grew up in New York and learned the trade by working with her mother (who founded Aditiany in 1991), helps brands realize their most otherworldly visions, overseeing a 30-person-plus team of fabric buyers and embroiderers in Mumbai and New York. The atelier has helped transform a mohair sweater into a garden of silk trompe-l’oeil roses (Dolce & Gabbana), hand-beaded an entire custom jumpsuit tailored to model Bella Hadid’s body (Alexander Wang) and turned a velvet Saint Laurent smoking jacket into a galaxy of embroidered stars for Keith Richards.Producing each design requires its own kind of sleight of hand. The 33-year-old Shah splits her time between her studio in Mumbai and New York, where Aditiany has a showroom in the garment district, a storehouse filled with thousands of embroidery swatches: There are yards of gold bullion fringe and Chantilly lace, a rainbow of Murano glass beads and a vast library of brilliant crystals and semiprecious stones. She also makes about four trips a year to Europe to discuss upcoming collections with various houses. The creative process is collaborative: Design teams relay their references for the upcoming season, and Shah then presents samples of embellished fabrics — ’20s-​style bead-​trimmed lace, fragile Tyrolean-esque flower-stitched silk tulle and new embellishment techniques being developed by the studio in Mumbai, such as embroidery using recycled materials — that might fulfill those imaginings.AdvertisementRecently, Honawar began accompanying Shah on her visits to London, Paris and Milan, and joining her at meetings. “At first, people thought it was bizarre for me to meet [with] all these houses,” he says. “But I thought it was so interesting to sit there with someone like the head of Gucci or Prada as they tell you what they’re going to do for the next few seasons.” Maintaining a blurred boundary between personal and professional life could make some couples feel claustrophobic, but for Shah, Honawar’s interest is both creatively fulfilling and fun. Building relationships with luxury brands has given the 34-year-old Honawar ideas for new businesses as well, including a forthcoming design studio, a collaboration with his wife that Shah says will offer “everything from linens to glassware to the perfect towel,” and will highlight the best of Indian artisanal traditions.Like Shah, Honawar, who was raised in Mumbai, works mainly between India and New York. In addition to co-founding 28 Kothi in Jaipur, the three-outlet gastropub the Woodside Inn and the Pantry, a bakery in Mumbai, he also co-founded Inday, a vegetable-heavy cafe in N.Y.C.’s NoMad district. Along with two new projects in Mumbai — the recently opened Bombay Vintage, a traditional Indian restaurant, and a still unnamed Southeast Asian restaurant and cocktail bar — he’s also developing a Puglian-influenced auberge on 60 acres in the Rajasthani countryside. For years, he says, major Indian cities simply didn’t have the kind of dining options you’d find in Paris or London: You ate meals at home, not outside of it. The past decade, however, has changed that: American-born Indians, like his wife, have returned to their parents’ homeland, bringing with them expectations of a truly global restaurant scene.AdvertisementBut for all Honawar’s contributions to that scene, 28 Kothi, which he designed in 2016 as a respite for the myriad fashion designers, jewelers and photographers who travel through Jaipur, remains one of his favorite projects. The guesthouse’s new cafe will serve elevated vegetarian regional classics such as the traditional rice dish biryani — which he’s reimagined with spiced quinoa, crisped okra and a sharp-sweet tomato chutney — or paneer, a firm farmer’s cheese he’s converted into cottage-cheese form and mixed with sprouts grown in the kitchen’s garden. Next, he wants to create a larger hotel “that exhibits the true India” to the wider world. “It’s a vast country with diverse culture and history,” he says. “My idea of modern Indian luxury is preserving that heritage while presenting it to travelers in a language they understand.”A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 2018, on Page M256 of T Magazine with the headline: Two Worlds Home in.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By HARI KUMAR and KAI SCHULTZMARCH 14, 2018
NEW DELHI — When Kamran Yousuf, a young Kashmiri photojournalist, stepped out of an Indian jail, he was gaunt and visibly weaker.Mr. Yousuf, who was released on bail Tuesday night after being imprisoned for six months, has found himself at the center of a dispute that has captivated Kashmir.The Indian authorities who arrested Mr. Yousuf questioned his journalistic credentials. They accused him of throwing stones at Indian forces in the bitterly disputed border territory, as part of a group working with a terrorist organization from Pakistan — charges Mr. Yousuf’s friends and family say were concocted to punish him for documenting antigovernment protests.On Monday afternoon, a thaw of sorts was reached when a judge in the New Delhi court overseeing Mr. Yousuf’s case ruled that there was not enough credible evidence to detain him before trial.AdvertisementMr. Yousuf’s grandfather, Mohammed Yousuf Ganaie, said by telephone: “He is innocent and has not committed any crime. The court has done him justice.”Kashmir has endured bloody conflict for decades as the subject of a brutal territorial dispute between India, which controls much of the territory, and Pakistan. Unrest has surged in recent years, with many young Kashmiris accusing India of using excessive force to quell protests, including firing blinding pellet guns into crowds.AdvertisementMr. Yousuf, 21, dropped out of college to document the conflict, carrying his camera equipment around the Kashmir Valley on his grandfather’s motorbike. He was known for capturing images of riots, militants’ funerals and protests.But in September, the career Mr. Yousuf had built came to an abrupt halt when he was arrested and accused by India’s National Investigation Agency of throwing stones as part of a campaign supported by an international terrorist body in Pakistan. Indian soldiers and police officers in Kashmir frequently face stone-throwing crowds, and the confrontations sometimes turn deadly.The agency said Mr. Yousuf could not possibly be a journalist because he never took pictures of government development projects or of the openings of hospitals, schools or bridges.Many journalists in the region saw the arrest as an assault on freedom of the press, pasting posters on the sides of buildings that read: “I am Kamran Yousuf. I am caged for fair journalism.”Tarun Sahrawat, a judge in New Delhi, wrote in Monday’s order granting bail that the National Investigation Agency had failed to submit any photographic or video evidence that showed Mr. Yousuf throwing stones. The order noted that the initial charge sheet had said the stone-throwers wore masks, making them difficult to identify.The National Investigation Agency was also unable to furnish call or chat records linking Mr. Yousuf to a terrorist organization. According to the order, Mr. Yousuf called police officers, government officials and other local journalists before he was arrested.AdvertisementAlok Mittal, a spokesman for the agency, insisted that the evidence was there, adding that the trial had yet to start. In an email, he wrote that the agency had statements from “credible witnesses who had seen Kamran Yousuf indulging in stone pelting.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Yousuf could not be reached for comment.Mehbooba Mufti, the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir State, wrote in a tweet that she had asked India’s home minister, Rajnath Singh, “to intervene so that the life of a young budding journalist does not get ruined.”The Committee to Protect Journalists in New York welcomed the decision to release Mr. Yousuf on bail, which was set at about $1,550, calling on the court to drop all remaining charges against him.“The charges against Yousuf are a clear attempt to muzzle reporting on the ongoing conflict in Kashmir and the photojournalist should never have been detained in the first place,” Robert Mahoney, the group’s deputy executive director, wrote in a statement.Follow Hari Kumar and Kai Schultz on Twitter: @HariNYT and @Kai_Schultz.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Roger CohenWhen I was young and in Buenos Aires, fair city, melancholy city, a friend said to me: “Journalism’s a cheap shot for you.” I never asked what she meant but I never forgot it either. I think she meant that journalism tends to stop where artistic creation begins, and that is the realm of deeper truths.Buenos Aires was awakening to the scope of a national nightmare. Every conversation seemed to end in tears as parents, haunted by terrible imaginings, recalled their children who had been “disappeared” by the military junta. That many of the thousands of corpses were dumped from planes into the Atlantic between 1976 and 1983 was not yet known.I sat and listened. That’s what journalists do: listen through silences, awaiting a clue. Students summoned by police for questioning (“shouldn’t take more than a half-hour”), never to be seen again. Students bundled into Ford Falcons on Avenida Corrientes. Pregnant women killed only after delivering babies that childless military couples would take.Argentina, so rich, so plundered, was haunting. Buenos Aires, in its elegance, reminded me of Flaubert’s remark about style, that it’s “the discharge from a deeper wound.” Distance weighed on Argentines. It was a form of banishment.I told the story in the way that seemed most revealing to me: from within the anguish of the people I met. The intersection of personal and national psyches has always constituted the richest point of journalistic inquiry for me.I stuck to what I knew. But facts can be inadequate. I recall two people, a man and a woman, seated at a restaurant in war-ravaged Beirut. The waiters folded the linen napkins with great care, a small act of defiance. Yes, that was verifiable. But what was passing between the couple, what inhabited the small magical space separating their fingertips, and how had it momentarily blotted out the shelling?The war was one thing, wartime another. It may be debated where the greater truth lay. As Amos Oz, the Israeli novelist, once put it, “Facts at times become the dire enemies of truth.” Picasso’s “Guernica” is a poor factual account of what happened in a Basque village on April 26, 1937, and a magnificent rendering of what has happened in every village that was ever bombed in any war. The painting is a perfect journalistic dispatch, if measured by how much universal truth it contains.That, however, is not what journalists are about most of the time. Their realm is facts. Stubborn facts, the kind that bring down governments, usher barbarians to judgment. We are living a great journalistic flowering, provoked by the contempt for the truth, and often for the Constitution, of Donald Trump’s White House. In the unending task of keeping the Republic, journalists have made a difference.Perhaps that’s what it comes down to: making a difference, in some small but important way. Sure, journalism can be a “cheap shot” when it’s self-congratulatory, or voyeuristic, smug or shallow. (“Fake news” is not journalism.) The journalist evokes suffering and moves on; the suffering tends to endure.There’s a moment in the movie “Gandhi,” when the fictional New York Times correspondent, Vince Walker, having witnessed the brutal British assault on a nonviolent protest by Gandhi supporters at the Dharasana Salt Works, phones in his dispatch. He’s sweating, under pressure, close to tears, as he communicates the last graph: “Whatever moral ascendancy the West held was lost here today. India is free for she has taken all that steel and cruelty can give, and she has neither cringed nor retreated.”It’s all there: the head and the heart fused, lucidity and emotion, a nudge to history from a correspondent bearing witness. To be there at the cusp of change is a rare gift. Everything in journalism has changed except the essential.When I was very young, I’d go to the Kruger National Park in South Africa. It seemed nature was slow, with sudden bursts of acceleration. Nothing moved as the heat of the day rose. Then the air quickened. An eagle soared, elephants charged. Life then was a question of waiting and timing. It might idle for several years before packing several into a single one.Journalism is like that, lulls and accelerations, adrenaline and troubled questioning. What do I recall? Finding two of those stolen Argentine children in Paraguay, being there at Pinochet’s downfall, chronicling the Bosnian war until at last NATO intervened, giving voice to brave Iranians in 2009: the moments when words seem vital.This week, after a botched attempt at an execution last month, the State of Alabama and lawyers for Doyle Lee Hamm reached a private settlement that will spare his life. I’d written a column called “Death Penalty Madness in Alabama.” Bernard Harcourt, Hamm’s lawyer, told me, “Without your piece, I don’t think we’d be where we are today. It made all the difference.”A single life saved, that feels like enough for a lifetime, even if the novel is yet to come.You can follow me on Twitter (@NYTimesCohen) or join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy MARIA ABI-HABIB and SALMAN MASOODMARCH 1, 2018
NEW DELHI — During the debate last week over a United States-sponsored measure to throw Pakistan onto a global terrorism-financing watchlist, it appeared that Saudi Arabia and China were going to quickly shut it all down. The Pakistani foreign minister sounded a triumphant note.“Grateful to friends who helped,” Foreign Minister Khawaja M. Asif posted on Twitter.Just two days later, on Friday, Pakistan’s relief turned to alarm at the news that those two close allies had withdrawn their support, making it inevitable that Pakistan would be added in June to the “gray list” of the Financial Action Task Force, a global body created to fight terrorism financing and money laundering.The country will have a year to show that it is acting against extremist groups, shutting down their financing streams and prosecuting their leaders, or it could face having its banks cut off like those of Iran and North Korea were. Already, the gray-listing will make it harder for Pakistan to access international markets, and it has $3 billion in debts coming due this summer.Pakistan has been on that gray list before, for a three-year stretch that ended in 2015, and this week Pakistani officials publicly expressed doubt that anything worse would happen.AdvertisementBut by all accounts, the new international action was an embarrassing public slap that has again focused discussion on the Pakistani military’s benign eye toward militant groups working against American aims in Afghanistan and Indian interests in Kashmir.AdvertisementFurther, the shock over Saudi Arabia’s and China’s eventual refusal to block action against Pakistan has made this listing sting in a way the last one never did.“The listing this time seems serious,” said Arifa Noor, a political commentator and talk show host. “The uneasy relationship between Islamabad and Washington, and the public pressure by the White House, has also added to the sense of seriousness and worry. The issue didn’t get so much attention in 2012.”The Trump administration’s increased pressure on Pakistan, including cutting off $1.3 billion in aid in January, is rooted in frustration over what officials have said is the country’s refusal to act against a Taliban insurgency that is wrecking Afghanistan even as it finds support in Pakistan.But the recent gray-listing is explicitly focused on two groups that the United States says are linked to terrorism against India The groups, Jamaat-ud-Dawa and Falah-e-Insaniyat — suspected of being fronts for Lashkar-e-Taiba, the group accused in the 2008 Mumbai attacks — operated openly until the Pakistani government officially outlawed them in February, barely a week before the international community met to determine whether to list Islamabad.Interior Minister Ahsan Iqbal insisted that Pakistan was already cracking down on the organizations linked to Lashka-e-Taiba. And other officials pointed out that Pakistani officials say that since they outlawed the two groups last month, they have seized their ambulances, schools and other assets.But American officials aren’t convinced, pointing to past actions Pakistan has taken against terrorist groups to placate the international community, only to later allow them to raise money and preach hatred.“Concerns remain, even as Pakistan has recently begun to take action,” said David J. Ranz, the acting deputy assistant secretary of state for Pakistan, in a telephone interview. “The international community has consistently expressed its longstanding concerns about ongoing deficiencies in Pakistan’s implementation of its anti-money laundering and counterterrorism finance regime.”AdvertisementThat two of Pakistan’s strongest allies could join, or at least accept, American efforts to isolate the country has roiled the government in Islamabad and the military.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Saudi Arabia and China have consistently blocked international actions to penalize Pakistan, with Beijing consistently using its veto at the United Nations. Just last month, Pakistan sent troops to Saudi Arabia to help train and advise the Saudi army, which has been locked in a long war in Yemen.And Beijing is spending some $60 billion in joint infrastructure and development projects in Pakistan, which will also bolster China’s efforts to spread its influence in South Asia while providing thousands of jobs to Chinese workers.As the Trump administration has ratcheted up pressure over the last year, two camps have become apparent within Pakistan: those urging that Islamabad sever ties with militant groups and repair relations with Washington, and those who say that the alliance with China is enough to weather a fallout with the West.That pro-China camp has consistently scoffed at Washington’s threats, pointing to the tens of billions of dollars that Islamabad has received from Beijing, dwarfing American assistance. But last week’s vote undermined that stance, at least for the moment.Pakistani officials say China dropped its objection to Islamabad’s listing last week as Beijing lobbied for the vice chairmanship of the Financial Action Task Force. Beijing was granted that post on Friday, after the decision to list Pakistan.Although Pakistani officials say they are disappointed about China and Saudi Arabia’s lack of support, they are confident it is a one-off. Beijing wouldn’t want to risk its development projects in Pakistan while Riyadh needs the country’s support for the war in Yemen and other regional objectives, they argue.But the sense of embarrassment over the gray listing was palpable.Editorials in prominent Pakistani newspapers embarked on some soul-searching, asking why the country’s military — and to some extent, politicians — refuse to crack down on groups the international community has blacklisted.An editorial on Sunday in the newspaper The Nation asked why Pakistan had “to force our allies, like China and Saudi Arabia, in such an uncomfortable position to defend Pakistan every time.” It added, “The mainstreaming of terrorist and extremist factions, to the point that we tolerated their large participation in our election process, is what has put us in this situation today.”AdvertisementBut the contemplation was largely relegated to the liberal columnists that have asked this question before: Is it worth it for Pakistan to support these groups as a foreign policy tool, and risk international isolation?“Is this a watershed moment, or is this more of the same?” said Cyril Almeida, a columnist for the English-language newspaper Dawn, in a telephone interview.Mr. Almeida, like others, is skeptical that Washington’s hawkish approach will change Pakistan’s support to militant groups.“There’s a domestic struggle going on, and international pressure focused on same issue: How does Pakistan remain a part of the regional or global system while having a tolerance for militant groups?” he said. “And what does Pakistan do about these groups? No one will say how this will end, either domestic struggle or Pakistan’s place internationally.”Follow Maria Abi-Habib and Salman Masood on Twitter: @abihabib and @salmanmasood.Aurelien Breeden contributed reporting from Paris.A version of this news analysis appears in print on March 3, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Pakistan’s Allies Step Aside, Removing Block on U.S. Effort for Terrorism Listing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO, RAPHAEL MINDER and YONETTE JOSEPHMARCH 8, 2018
Women in dozens of countries went on strike, held rallies, marched in the streets for equal rights, and commemorated International Women's Day.ROME — In the era of #MeToo and Time’s Up, International Women’s Day arrived on Thursday with a renewed sense of urgency.For many women, there was a keen awareness of a major shift in the firmament when it came to gender parity, the treatment of women in the workplace and sexual dynamics.But others — scratching out lives in developing countries in Africa, toiling away at jobs with little pay in Latin America or scrambling to raise children without help in the Middle East — most likely had little time left over to reflect on the day designated to celebrate “the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women,” and as a call to action,  according to the website.Nonetheless, Margrethe Vestager, the European competition commissioner, said on Twitter: “There is a lot to fight for: Engage! Women and men alike. We need power to make equality a reality.”AdvertisementFarida Nabourema, a rights advocate from the West African nation of Togo, tweeted: “Today I celebrate all the female activists that are being abusively detained by dictatorial governments all over the world and in #Africa more particularly. Your courage, dedication and empathy shall not be forgotten, and we will keep fighting with you and for you.”Some women, fueled by impatience over the long-running fight for equality and the sense that the glacial pace of change would just not do, found large and small ways to protest — with pots and pans, raised fists and howls of rage.AdvertisementTo highlight gender inequality, feminist groups in Spain asked women to spend no money and to ignore chores for the day — to go on a “domestic” strike. The newspaper El País posted a video explaining why it was not fully staffed: The women were away.Hundreds of women gathered at midnight in Puerta del Sol, in the heart of Madrid, to kick off a day of protests across the country, with about 120 demonstrations scheduled later on Thursday. Women banged pots and pans and shouted slogans during the protests.The mobilization in Spain had the backing of most trade unions. Ten unions called for a 24-hour strike, while others called for two-hour work stoppages. Service on Madrid’s metro system was significantly disrupted after hundreds of trains stopped running.The women’s strike was covered extensively on Spain’s morning TV and radio shows, but not by the country’s most famous female presenters, who stayed away from work.“If women stop, it has to be noticed,” Ana Rosa Quintana, a TV presenter, wrote on Twitter.The issue also generated some controversy. The regional Parliament of Valencia was split on Thursday, as right-leaning female lawmakers took part in a session while their left-wing counterparts left the assembly and hung signs on their chairs that read, “I’m stopping.”The leader in Valencia of the conservative Popular Party, Isabel Bonig, argued that striking lawmakers ridiculed the sacrifice made by other women because they could leave the session for a few hours without suffering financial consequences — unlike other women in other professions.AdvertisementData from the European Union’s statistical provider Eurostat show that women in Spain were paid 13 percent less in the public sector and 19 percent less in the private sector than their male counterparts. In 2016, women’s gross hourly earnings in the European Union were, on average, 16.2 percent below those of men.The call for a strike went out in England, too, where a group called the Women’s Strike Assembly UK posted on social media: “Today #WeStrike! Wear red, bring an umbrella & join us.” And in France, where the pay gap is 25 percent, according to one paper, Libération, the day’s edition was sold with two prices: 2 euros for women and €2.50 for men.In Italy, marches were held in dozens of cities and women were encouraged to strike. The Italian post office issued four stamps dedicated to the “Italian female genius.” Countless mimosa tree branches were felled so that women could receive gifts of small bouquets of the odorous yellow flowers.Representatives of a project called 100 Women against Stereotypes met in Rome to promote an online platform that sponsors female experts in a variety of areas.And after being held inside Vatican City for years, the Voices of Faith conference, which champions women’s leadership in the global Catholic community, moved to the headquarters of the Jesuit order. The venue was moved after the Vatican expressed disapproval of the choice of three speakers on the schedule, including a former president of Ireland, Mary McAleese, who has championed women’s ordination.As thousands of students marched in Milan on Thursday morning, one group broke off to chant slogans in front of a hospital, protesting the majority of Italian doctors who refuse to perform abortions, even though it is legal.In Rome, the actress Asia Argento, who has received criticism in Italy for accusing Harvey Weinstein of sexual assault, was among those who marched.In the Philippine capital, women took to the streets and denounced President Rodrigo Duterte as among the worst violators of women’s rights in Asia.Hundreds of activists sang and danced in a boisterous rally in Plaza Miranda, in central Manila, while handing red and white roses to the mothers, sisters and widows of those suspected of drug offenses who have been slain under Mr. Duterte’s brutal crackdown.AdvertisementThe protesters noted the thousands of people they say have died in extrajudicial killings — accusations the police have denied. One protest leader, Jean Enriquez, condemned Mr. Duterte’s remarks against women, including one in which he asked troops to shoot female communist rebels in the genitals.“We’re so alarmed,” she said, according to The Associated Press. “We have seen his direct attacks on women under his iron-hand rule, and it’s now time to heighten our resistance.”In India, where the gang rape of women and sexual assaults on young girls have brought anguish and soul searching, students, teachers and workers in the sex industry marched toward Parliament, demanding action against domestic violence, sexual attacks and discrimination in jobs and wages.“Unite against violence against women,” one placard read. “My body, My choice,” read another.
                The poet Sylvia Plath and the novelist Charlotte Brontë. Ida B. Wells, the anti-lynching activist. These extraordinary women — and so many others — did not have obituaries in The New York Times. Until now.            Students at Tsinghua University celebrated International Women’s Day with banners making light of a proposed constitutional amendment to scrap term limits and allow President Xi Jinping to stay in power indefinitely, according to news reports.One banner said that a boyfriend’s term should also have no limits, while another said, “A country cannot exist without a Constitution, as we cannot exist without you!”Photographs of the banners were shared on Chinese social media before they were swiftly removed — most likely by censors.AdvertisementMore than 500 women’s rights leaders gathered in Seoul, vowing to keep up a #MeToo campaign that has gained steam in South Korea. Political leaders raced to join them to voice their support ahead of elections scheduled for June to select mayors and provincial governors.In central Seoul, feminist activists handed out white roses as a symbol of support for the movement. Nearby, hundreds of labor activists rallied and waved #MeToo signs.
            Happy international women's day. #IWD2018 #internationalwomensday2018 pic.twitter.com/ttFpDTMIgx Another group of female workers held a rally holding signs that said, “Stop at 3 p.m.” The wage gap between men and women was so wide in South Korea that women should stop working at that time to break even, they said.The Korean Women’s Associations United called for reform in the country’s “patriarchal social structure that breeds gender discrimination.”“We see a revolution afoot,” it said. “And the leader of this revolution is women.”When the Taliban ruled parts of Afghanistan, many women were too afraid to leave their homes. But on Thursday, hundreds marched in Kabul, the capital, to remind their leaders that much work needed to be done to give Afghan woman a voice, ensure their education and protect them from often brutal violence and an oppressive patriarchic system.The head of the Independent Human Rights Commission, Sima Samar, speaking about women in the country’s security forces, declared, “Your safety represents the safety of all Afghan women.”
            International Women’s Day in Numbers:Every year, 12 million girls are married, losing their education and suffering lasting ill-health and violence.It's time to #EndChildMarriage!https://t.co/rHkepuE5CO #IWD2018 pic.twitter.com/GmfNK0sM7h 
            Japan's original goal for women executives at public companies by 2020: 30%. Current goal: 10%. Current reality: 3.7% #womenomics #Internationalwomensday https://t.co/GNqPNJJVL8 @jt_chisaT 
#IWD2018: How much less did women in the EU earn than men in 2016? #Eurostat has the answer https://t.co/p9ApUqa1Qr pic.twitter.com/j5I8fwXvti 
            Because 63 million girls still need to go to school. Because women only earn between 60 and 75% of men’s wages - for the same work. Because 1 in 3 women have experienced physical or sexual violence in their life. #internationalwomensday2018 pic.twitter.com/Ov6EICxldf For the second year in a row in Argentina, social activists called on women to mark the day with a strike — or at least to make some noise (dubbed “ruidazo”) in their workplaces at 11 a.m.Cintia González, 35, joined about three dozen colleagues outside the Science Ministry to take part in what was effectively the warm-up to a march that is expected to draw hundreds of thousands to Downtown Buenos Aires.Advertisement“This isn’t a day to celebrate; we’re taking to the streets to demand equality and justice,” said Ms. González, a translator at the Conicet, the country’s leading scientific funding and research body.The marches came days after a bill was presented in Congress that would legalize abortion. The center-right president, Mauricio Macri, surprised many by greenlighting the abortion debate in Congress even though he has expressed opposition to legalization.In addition, although the society as a whole seems more in tune with the problem of femicide — one woman is killed every 30 hours in Argentina — the issue has yet to resonate with everyone.“Look around you,” said Nuria Cabral, 34, who works at the Science Ministry and was wearing a purple handkerchief around her wrist. “This is 90 percent women, showing men still don’t feel like they should be part of our struggle.”Activists, however, are optimistic that this year will grow the women’s movement. “This year will be bigger than the last because we have historical momentum; each time more people are becoming more conscious, and people are waking up,” said Vanina Escala, a leader of the “Not one Less” (“Ni Una Menos”) movement that has organized marches against femicides.Patricia Flores, 42, a sociologist who works at the Science Ministry, is one of those women.“I’m a feminist, and now I can say that without shame. I wasn’t always comfortable with that label,” Ms. Flores said. “But many are still scared of it.”In Mexico City, the Center for Digital Culture and Wikipedia Mexico summoned volunteers for an editing marathon (MegaEditatón) to work on hundreds of Wikipedia entries dedicated to extraordinary Mexican women in the fields of science, literature, music, sports, journalism and the arts.A march was also planned for Thursday afternoon to protest the systematic violence against women in the country.
            Happy International Women's Day! We're celebrating the women who have changed the world.Here's all of the amazing women who have received the #NobelPrize and their remarkable achievements at the time of the award. #IWD2018 pic.twitter.com/isKJHSGjsj But it was clear that more work still needed to be done. A report released on Thursday by the Economic Policy Institute showed that when it came to wages, American women with graduate degrees made less money than men with only college degrees.AdvertisementIn Denmark, women spent far more time than male partners on household chores, according to a study by the Danish Employers’ Association for the Financial Sector.A report unveiled on Thursday by Open Society Foundations in Brussels and titled “An End to Manels,” or all-male panels, showed that female speakers are outnumbered by men by three to one at Europe’s top 23 international policy events — including the Davos conference and the Munich Security Conference.Christal Morehouse, the report’s author, said in a statement, “The policies being debated affect women and men equally — it’s perplexing that in 2018 women still don’t have an equal opportunity to shape them.”And in Central African Republic, women were still fighting for their daughters to get a good education and to start businesses in a country with the world’s second-highest rate of child marriage.Elisabetta Povoledo reported from Rome, Raphael Minder from Madrid and Yonette Joseph from London. Reporting was contributed by Choe Sang-hun from Seoul, South Korea; Daniel Politi from Buenos Aires; Michael Wolgelenter and Iliana Magra from London; Paulina Villegas from Mexico City; and Motoko Rich from Tokyo.A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Beyond #MeToo: Pride, Protests and Pressure.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 4:00 A.M. E.D.T.
DHARMSALA, India —  The prime minister of the self-declared Tibetan government-in-exile in India has urged his compatriots to strengthen efforts to make the return of the Dalai Lama to his native land a reality.Lobsang Sangay says Tibet has seen 60 years of destruction of its civilization, culture and identity by the Chinese since the Dalai Lama fled to India in 1959.The Dalai Lama on his part thanked India for giving shelter to him and says the Tibetans have turned their unfortunate circumstances into a path of enlightenment by reviving their spirit and influence wherever they are.The Dalai Lama and Sangay spoke at a public event on Saturday in the northern Indian town of Dharmsala marking the beginning of the 60th year of the spiritual leader's exile in India.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 9:43 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  The world's richest cricket board was set to pocket nearly double of what it gained from the previous cycle of media rights after bidding for the next five years of Indian cricket could not be wrapped on Wednesday.The e-auction of television and digital rights, a first in cricket, will enter a third day but the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) received a bid of 60.33 billion rupees (658.17 million pounds)for consolidated global rights from an unidentified bidder before close, a board source told Reuters.Star India paid 38.5 billion rupees for the rights to broadcast India's home matches for the 2012-2018 cycle.The BCCI had secured its position as the world's richest cricket board in September with the game's biggest TV deal when it sold Indian Premier League's (IPL) global media rights to Star India for a staggering $2.52 billion.AdvertisementSix companies, including Facebook and Google, initially entered the fray to bid for 102 matches in India from June, 2018 to March, 2023.Following scrutiny, Star India Private Ltd, Reliance Industries Limited, and Sony Pictures Networks India Private Limited were found eligible to submit online financial bids.Advertisement(Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; editing by Christian Radnedge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 10:47 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  The world's richest cricket board is poised to get even wealthier after media rights to Indian cricket for the next five years brought spirited bidding on Tuesday.The e-auction of television and digital rights, a first in cricket, was not concluded but the Indian board (BCCI) received a bid of 44.4 billion Indian rupees ($683 million) for consolidated global rights from an unidentified bidder."The online auction will now resume on Wednesday...from the same stage," the BCCI said in a statement.Star India paid 38.5 billion rupees for the rights to broadcast India's home matches for the 2012-2018 cycle.AdvertisementThe BCCI had consolidated its position as the world's richest cricket board in September with the game's biggest TV deal when it sold Indian Premier League's (IPL) global media rights to Star India for a staggering $2.52 billion.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Six companies, including Facebook and Google, initially entered the fray to bid for 102 matches in India from June, 2018 to March, 2023."Following scrutiny, Star India Private Ltd, Reliance Industries Limited, and Sony Pictures Networks India Private Limited were found eligible to submit online financial bids," the BCCI said.Advertisement($1 = 65 Indian rupees)(Reporting by Amlan Chakraborty in New Delhi, editing by Ed Osmond)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 9:11 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI/NEW DELHI —  India is exploring new duties on the import of a key smartphone component, according to two government sources, the latest in a series of moves aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing in the world's second-biggest smartphone market.India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has mooted a proposal to levy a 10 percent duty on the import of populated printed circuit boards (PCBs), two government officials told Reuters this week, declining to be named as the matter is not public.A PCB is a bed for key components such as processors, memory and wireless chip sets that are the heart of an electronic  device. Once populated with components, PCBs account for about half the cost of a smartphone. Currently, most manufacturers of smartphones import PCBs which are already loaded with components to India and then assemble them locally.If India's finance ministry clears the recommendation on new duties, these could be levied in a matter of days, say government and industry sources, thus making populated PCB imports more expensive and pushing players to locally mount components instead.AdvertisementIndia's finance, electronics and trade ministries did not respond to requests for comment.In the near-term, such actions could spur players like Apple Inc to widen their limited manufacturing and assembly capabilities in India and give an edge to those like Korea's Samsung Electronics and homegrown firm Lava, which already have machines to mount components onto PCBs.AdvertisementApple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.China's OPPO is also putting up surface mounting machines in a new facility it is building in north India, a company executive told Reuters in a recent interview. The local unit of Foxconn, one of the biggest global contract manufacturers of electronics, also has the capability, according to two industry sources.Foxconn was not immediately reachable for comment."This will be a step in a good direction. This is how full-scale manufacturing happens," said S.N. Rai, co-founder of Lava, adding the move will gradually also boost local production of components such as smartphone cameras and screens.MANUFACTURING AMBITIONSThe move, if implemented, would be the latest step in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's phased manufacturing program (PMP), a plan unveiled in 2016 to step up local value addition every year in the smartphone manufacturing space.About 134 million smartphones were sold in India last year, the world's second-biggest market after China.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Modi's government has since raised duties on a range of low-value items such as batteries and chargers and on imported phones.Any move to impose duties on populated PCBs, however, could risk a backlash from several countries and heighten trade war concerns. China, Canada and the United States among others last week raised concerns at the World Trade Organization around India's imposition of duties on such devices.In its annual budget last month, India's government outlined higher duties on products including imported smartphones and a range of components.Modi hopes to turn India into a global manufacturing hub in a bid to boost growth and create tens of millions of new jobs.AdvertisementWhile his flagship 'Make in India' drive is still a long way from delivering on lofty job promises, Modi has had some success with the PMP. Over 100 local factories currently assemble mobile phones and accessories like chargers, batteries, powerbanks and earphones in India, says tech research firm Counterpoint.The PMP currently envisions local assembly of camera modules and printed circuit boards in the fiscal year beginning April 1, according to a public electronics ministry document."India has a plan to raise duties for all components bit by bit," said Tarun Pathak an associate director with Counterpoint, adding this will gradually force more domestic manufacturing.(Reporting by Sankalp Phartiyal; Editing by Euan Rocha and Raju Gopalakrishnan)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 11:58 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Chinese smartphone maker OPPO, which has ceded ground to Xiaomi in the Indian market, is looking to take a page out of its Chinese rival's marketing playbook with plans to hold its first online flash sale in the country early next week.OPPO, which launched a new flagship smartphone on Monday in India - its biggest market outside China - plans to woo buyers with an online flash sale for the device on April 2.Similar marketing gambits and other savvy moves catapulted rival Xiaomi into becoming the No. 1 smartphone seller in India in the final quarter of 2017, capturing a crown that Samsung Electronics Co Ltd had held for years."We are learning from other brands," Will Yang, OPPO's brand director in India told Reuters on Monday on the sidelines of the F7 smartphone launch event in Mumbai.AdvertisementXiaomi unseated its Korean rival Samsung thanks largely to the success of its online flash sales on both Amazon.com's Indian portal and that of homegrown rival Flipkart.AdvertisementFlash sales are usually organized by smartphone sellers to launch new devices on e-commerce websites with a limited stock, sometimes combined with cash-back offers. The phones usually sell out within minutes.OPPO, the fifth biggest smartphone seller in India at end-December, sells the bulk of its phones via company-owned and partner retail outlets but the company, Yang said, is working on an online strategy."As the majority of the market is run by these two platforms (Amazon and Flipkart), we're looking for partnerships," he said, declining to give more details.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The new OPPO F7, priced at 21,990 Indian rupees ($339) for the 64 GB variant will be sold via a flash sale on Flipkart and through retail stores in the country on April 2.Competition in India, the world's second-biggest smartphone market and a notoriously price-sensitive one, is fierce and it weighs on margins, Yang said.When asked whether OPPO was likely to feel the heat on its margins in 2018 as competition intensifies, Yang replied "maybe", adding the company could cut margins depending on products.OPPO, which currently assembles phones at two plants in north India and is building a third facility, is also considering designing its devices in India."We design now from software first but for the hardware, yes, we'll definitely do it in the future," Yang said.($1 = 64.8400 Indian rupees)(Reporting by Sankalp Phartiyal; Editing by Euan Rocha and Adrian Croft)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 9:30 A.M. E.D.T.
SRINAGAR, India —  A security clampdown and a strike sponsored by separatists fighting against Indian rule shut down most of Indian-administered Kashmir on Monday, a day after deadly protests and fierce fighting killed 16 combatants and four civilians.Armed police and paramilitary soldiers in riot gear fanned out across the region and patrolled streets in anticipation of anti-India protests and clashes.Authorities also imposed a curfew in some towns in southern Kashmir and in the old parts of the disputed region's main city of Srinagar, the urban center of protests and clashes against Indian rule.Shops and businesses closed in other areas where no security restrictions were in place. Separatist leaders who challenge India's sovereignty over Kashmir called for a shutdown on Monday and Tuesday to protest the killings.AdvertisementAuthorities shut schools and colleges and canceled university exams in an attempt to stop protests by students.AdvertisementDespite the suspension of classes, anti-India protests erupted at the University of Kashmir, where many students gathered in the main campus in Srinagar and shouted slogans such as "Go India, go back" and demanded an end of Indian rule over the region.Officials also halted train services and cut cellphone internet access in the most restive towns, and reduced connection speeds in other parts of the Kashmir Valley, a common government practice aimed at calming tensions and preventing anti-India demonstrations from being organized.Troops laid steel barricades and razor wire on roads and intersections to cut off neighborhoods as authorities anticipated widespread protests.At least 13 rebels and three Indian army soldiers were killed in Sunday's fighting in three gunbattles in southern Kashmir, where a new generation of rebels have revived militancy and challenged New Delhi's rule with guns and effective use of social media.As the fighting raged, large anti-India protests erupted in several parts of Indian-controlled Kashmir and at least four civilians were killed and dozens injured.Residents said government troops fired live ammunition and shotgun pellets into the crowds of mostly young protesters, causing injuries. They also said one of the civilians who died in southern Shopian near a gunbattle on Sunday was being used as a human shield against rebels by the Indian army.An army officer, who declined to be named in keeping with army regulations, rejected the accusation and said the civilian was killed in the crossfire with insurgents.AdvertisementIn the past, such allegations have rarely been probed, and some accused military officials have been rewarded.According to hospital officials, many of the injured were hit by shotgun pellets in the eyes, causing widespread anger across Kashmir. In 2016, Srinagar's main hospital alone received hundreds of patients who had been injured in their eyes and blinded by shotgun pellets after some of the biggest protests against Indian rule in response to the killing of a charismatic young rebel leader, Burhan Wani.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Sunday, doctors treated and operated on over 50 young men brought to the hospital, most of them hit in the eyes by pellets. A doctor said about 30 could lose their eyesight.International rights groups have repeatedly condemned the Indian crackdown and called on it to stop using shotgun pellets against protesters armed only with stones. However, government troops have continued using the weapon.On Monday, the Indian chapter of rights group Amnesty International tweeted that Indian "security forces must refrain from using excessive force against protesters in Kashmir. Internet shutdowns must not be blanket or indefinite."Also on Monday, doctors and paramedics at the main hospital in Shopian held a sit-in protest against government forces for firing inside the hospital's premises Sunday night when many injured were being treated. The medical staff said troops tried to stop them from performing their duties.No one was reported injured in the firing.In recent years, Kashmiris, mainly youths, have displayed open solidarity with anti-India rebels and sought to protect them by engaging troops in street clashes during military operations against the militants. The protests have persisted despite the Indian army chief warning that tough action would be taken against stone-throwers during counterinsurgency operations.In Pakistan's capital, Islamabad, Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi convened a special Cabinet meeting which condemned the killing of "innocent people in Kashmir by the Indian forces," a government statement said.It said Abbasi asked the international community to urge India to allow fact-finding missions to be sent to Kashmir and asked the United Nations to appoint a special representative to Kashmir "where India, encouraged by the silence of the international community, continues to kill with impunity."AdvertisementSeparately, Pakistan's powerful army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa, said in a statement that violence against Kashmiri people "can never suppress a just indigenous political struggle for self-determination."Hundreds of Pakistanis also rallied Monday in the port city of Karachi against India and condemned the killings in Kashmir.Nuclear-armed India and Pakistan each administer part of Kashmir, but both claim it in its entirety.Anti-India sentiment runs deep in Kashmir, which in recent years has seen renewed rebel attacks and repeated public protests against Indian rule.Rebels have been fighting Indian rule since 1989, demanding Kashmir be made part of Pakistan or become an independent country. India accuses Pakistan of arming and training the rebels, a charge Pakistan denies.Most Kashmiris support the rebels' cause while also participating in civilian street protests against Indian control.Nearly 70,000 people have been killed in the uprising and the ensuing Indian military crackdown.___Associated Press writer Munir Ahmed in Islamabad, Pakistan, contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressISLAMABAD — The United States has placed a small Pakistani political party on its list of foreign terrorist groups, calling it a front for the militants behind the 2008 Mumbai attacks.The U.S. State Department said Tuesday that the Milli Muslim League is a front for Lashkar-e-Taiba, a militant group founded by Hafiz Saeed, a Muslim cleric who lives freely in Pakistan and often addresses anti-India rallies. The U.S. has offered a $10 million reward for his capture, and the U.S. and U.N. consider Lashkar-e-Taiba a terrorist group.Saeed has denied responsibility for the Mumbai attacks, which killed 168 people, and Pakistan says there is not enough evidence to arrest him.Saeed's spokesman, Yahya Mujahid, said Wednesday that the cleric is not part of the Milli Muslim League or Lashkar-e-Taiba.Tabish Qayyum, a spokesman for the party, said the U.S. has no right to intervene in Pakistan's "internal political matters." He said the party "condemns all kinds of violence, extremism and terrorism and aims to make Pakistani society more tolerant and progressive." He denied the allegations that the party was a front.India's Ministry of External affairs welcomed the decision to add the party to the U.S. terror list.There was no immediate comment from Pakistan's government, which recently began seizing assets from two charities run by Saeed. The Jamaat-ud-Dawa organization and Falah-e-Insaniat Foundation are also alleged fronts for Lashkar-e-Taiba.Saeed is known for publicly supporting militant groups fighting Indian rule in the Himalayan region of Kashmir, which is split between Pakistan and India and claimed by both.__Associated Press Writer Muneez Naqvi contributed to this report from New Delhi, IndiaAdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 12:50 P.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Vedanta Ltd, the Indian unit of diversified mining group Vedanta Resources plc, said on Saturday it had won in an auction to acquire bankrupt Electrosteel Steels Ltd.The transaction, financial details of which were not disclosed, is part of India's new bankruptcy law, which is aimed at cutting close to $150 billion of accumulated soured loans by pushing loan defaulter firms into insolvency.Electrosteel Steels, which is setting up a 2.5 million tonnes a year steel plant in eastern India, is among India's 12 biggest loan defaulters which were pushed to bankruptcy proceedings last year. The company had received claims totalling 133 billion rupees from its creditors.Vedanta said in a statement late on Saturday it had received and accepted a letter of intent from Electrosteel Steels' creditors' group, led by top lender State Bank of India.AdvertisementThe closure of the deal is subject to regulatory compliance and approval by the National Company Law Tribunal, India's designated court for bankruptcy cases, the statement added.Tata Steel, privately-held Renaissance Steel and Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Pte Ltd were the suitors for Electrosteel Steels.Advertisement(Reporting by Sankalp Phartiyal; Editing by Devidutta Tripathy and Andrew Bolton)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 2:36 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON/NEW YORK —  Food giants Nestle, Kraft Heinz and Unilever are expected to bid for GlaxoSmithKline's Horlicks health nutrition business, which could fetch more than $4 billion, according to people familiar with the matter.GSK has started a strategic review of Horlicks - a malt-based drink brand popular in India – and some of its smaller products, after buying Novartis out of their consumer healthcare venture for $13 billion on Tuesday.The main asset on the block is GSK's 72.5 percent stake in its Indian subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare. The sources said the stake was worth $3.1 billion at current market prices but GSK wanted a premium in any sale.They estimated the consumer health nutrition business, which also has smaller operations in Nigeria and Bangladesh, could fetch more than $4 billion.AdvertisementNestle, the world's biggest packaged food company, has previously told GSK privately of its interest in Horlicks on several occasions, the people said.AdvertisementNestle already owns the malt drink Milo, but it is not a big-seller in India. The Swiss company declined to comment.Unilever, the world's largest tea company, and Kraft Heinz, which sells the powdered drinks Crystal Light and Kool-Aid, also declined to comment.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Horlicks is more than 140 years old with origins dating back to 1873, when two British-born men, James and William Horlick, first founded a company in Chicago to manufacture the drink. It was introduced to India by Indian soldiers who had fought with the British Army in the First World War.Associated British Foods, which owns the malt drink brand Ovaltine, could look at the business to scale up in a key emerging market, the sources said, although the size of the GSK business could be a deterrent.An ABF spokesman declined to comment.The Indian business has an enterprise value of about 29 times core earnings, said one of the sources, meaning any deal premium will value it well above what many packaged food and drink brands fetch. The valuation is inflated by the high growth rates seen in the Indian market.Nestle and Unilever could purchase the asset through their local Indian subsidiaries, Nestle India or Hindustan Unilever.Other potential suitors might include Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Suntory, Mondelez International and JAB, the coffee business owner that recently agreed to buy Dr Pepper Snapple, one of the sources said.(Editing by Edmund Blair)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:40 P.M. E.D.T.
AHMEDABAD, India —  Allegations that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's official smartphone app is shipping Indians' personal data to servers abroad have morphed into a political scandal in a country where privacy rules are weak and the data mining runs rampant.Indian opposition leader Rahul Gandhi taunted the prime minister after a pseudonymous researcher found that Modi's app was pumping private information such as citizens' email addresses to servers controlled by a U.S. firm."Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India's Prime Minister," Gandhi wrote in a sarcastic Twitter post published Sunday. "When you sign up for my official App, I give all your data to my friends in American companies."Modi's party has defended the app, saying the harvested data is being used "only for analytics."But the app's makers quietly rewrote their privacy policy after the news broke late last week. Initially , it read: "Your personal information and contact details shall remain confidential." Now it reads: "Certain information maybe processed by third party services."AdvertisementIntrusive data collection is common in the Wild West world of smartphone apps and social media. But the recent scandal over Cambridge Analytica's allegedly unauthorized harvesting of Facebook data and a series of leaks linked to India's biometric database has refocused the public's attention on digital privacy.AdvertisementDigital law expert and author Pavan Duggal said Indian regulations offered particularly weak safeguards.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."India does not have any legal position on data mining," he said. "India does not have a dedicated law on data protection. India does not also have a law on privacy, nor do we have a dedicated law on cybersecurity."The researcher whose work touched off the scandal did not immediately return messages.Operating under the handle "Elliot Alderson," a name borrowed from the hacker drama "Mr. Robot," he has had a busy few weeks needling Indian authorities about a series of data breaches. The app appears to be the first to have turned into a national scandal.Indian journalist Pratik Sinha, who double-checked the researcher's work, explained all the attention by pointing to the fact that Modi's name was attached to the app."We are talking about the prime minister of the country," he said.___Satter reported from London.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 24, 2018, 2:17 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Indian table tennis player Soumyajit Ghosh has been provisionally suspended by his country's governing body after an 18-year-old woman filed a rape allegation against him with the police.The 24-year-old, who represented India at the 2012 London Olympics and the Rio Games four years later was also named in the squad to compete at next month's Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia.Ghosh has denied the allegations.The Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) said in a statement on Friday that it had placed Ghosh under provisional suspension, pending the final outcome of a police investigation and court verdict, if any."The Executive Board of the TTFI, taking cognizance of the media reports and the FIR (first information report) filed against Soumyajit Ghosh, has unanimously decided to suspend the player and restrain him from participation in all tournaments until further orders," the body said.Advertisement"The EB members felt that the charges leveled against Ghosh are of grievous nature and they warranted placing him under provisional suspension immediately."The statement added that Ghosh would not be able to participate in any tournament, national or international and had also been issued a show cause notice to explain his stand on the allegations.Advertisement"I am in touch with my lawyer and will decide the course of action," Ghosh told the Hindu newspaper.(Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; Editing by John O'Brien)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 6:18 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  Two Indian journalists have been killed in separate hit-and-run incidents that rights groups and their families described as deliberate attacks.Reporters Without Borders said Tuesday that Navin Nischal, a reporter with the Hindi-language newspaper Dainik Bhaskar, was killed Sunday evening when an SUV rammed the motorcycle he was riding with a colleague. Both men were killed.Police have arrested the SUV's driver, Mohammad Harsu, a former village headman in the eastern state of Bihar who had argued with Nischal earlier in the day about his reporting.On Monday, reporter Sandeep Sharma was killed in Madhya Pradesh state's Bhind district. He had been investigating illegal sand mining in the region for a television station.AdvertisementA video of that attack shows a truck swerving sharply to the left to ram Sharma's motorcycle, running him over and then driving off. No one has been arrested in that attack.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sharma had earlier sought police protection, Amnesty International India said."The endemic violence affecting reporters in India has reached unparalleled levels in the past four years and the impunity so often enjoyed by those responsible sustains an unbearable security environment for journalism," said Daniel Bastard, the head of RSF's Asia-Pacific desk.India is ranked 136th out of 180 countries in RSF's 2017 World Press Freedom Index.At least three journalists were killed in the last few months of 2017, including Gauri Lankesh, a well-known writer who was fatally shot outside her home in the southern city of Bangalore. Lankesh, 55, was the editor of the independent Kannada-language magazine "Lankesh Patrike."AdvertisementHer killing caused an outpouring of anger with hundreds of supporters and journalists demanding that her killers be brought to justice. A suspect was arrested last month.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 25, 2018, 1:32 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  Tech news site ZDNet said on Sunday it stood by its report that identified a security vulnerability in data-linked to Aadhaar - India's national identity card project, after a semi-government agency that manages the database sought to discredit the report.ZDNet reported http://www.zdnet.com/article/another-data-leak-hits-india-aadhaar-biometric-database that a data leak on a system run by a state-owned utility company could allow access to private information of holders of the biometric "Aadhaar" ID cards, exposing their names, their unique 12-digit identity numbers, and their bank details.The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), which manages the Aadhaar program, said "there is no truth in this story," in a statement late on Saturday.ZDNet's global editor-in-chief Larry Dignan said in an email to Reuters on Sunday the publication stood by its report. Dignan said they spent weeks compiling evidence and verifying facts.Advertisement"We spent weeks reaching out to the Indian authorities, specifically UIDAI, to responsibly disclose the security issue, and we heard nothing back — and no action was taken until after we published our story," said Dignan.AdvertisementUIDAI sought to downplay the report stating that even if the claims in the story were true, it would raise security concerns with the database of the utility company and not with the security of UIDAI's Aadhaar database. UIDAI said it is "contemplating legal action against ZDNet".Multiple researchers and journalists, who have identified loopholes in India's massive national identity card project, say they have been harassed https://www.reuters.com/article/india-aadhaar-breach/update-1-critics-of-indias-id-card-project-say-they-have-been-harassed-put-under-surveillance-idUSL4N1Q44JS by some government agencies and slapped with criminal cases because of their work.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Aadhaar is a biometric identification card that is becoming integral to the digitisation of India's economy, with over 1.1 billion users it is the world's largest such database.Indians have been asked to furnish their Aadhaar numbers for a host of transactions including accessing bank accounts, paying taxes, receiving subsidies, acquiring a mobile number, settling a property deal and registering a marriage.The government's demands for Aadhaar linkage for multiple services is currently being challenged https://www.reuters.com/article/us-india-aadhaar/indian-court-extends-march-31-deadline-for-linking-of-biometric-ids-idUSKCN1GP1GX in India's Supreme Court.At the same time, security researchers and journalists have highlighted multiple vulnerabilities and data leaks tied to the program. UIDAI has sought to downplay the reports and last week it said the biometric data was safe from hacking as the storage facility was not connected to the internet.(Reporting by Malini Menon; Writing by Malini Menon and Krishna N. Das; Editing by Andrew Bolton, Euan Rocha and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:39 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Nissan Motor Co Ltd on Wednesday said it would resume building and selling cars in Pakistan next year, becoming the latest global automaker to operate in a market tipped to expand in coming years as vehicle ownership increases among a growing middle class.The Japanese automaker said it would start producing its entry-level Datsun brand at a plant in Karachi owned by partner Ghandhara Nissan Ltd, which will invest 4.5 billion Pakistani rupees ($39.00 million) to upgrade facilities after Nissan ended local production in 2010.Nissan joins automaking partner Renault SA, along with Hyundai Motor Co and Volkswagen AG in announcing increased presence in Pakistan after the government in 2016 introduced policies to promote growth in the auto industry, dominated for decades by Japanese automakers including Toyota Motor Corp and Honda Motor Co Ltd.With a population of nearly 200 million people and growing, Pakistan is a market with big growth potential, posting annual sales of 200,000 cars in 2017, up 60 percent from 2014. That  compared with sales of over 2 million passenger vehicles a year in neighboring India, which has a population of 1.3 billion.Advertisement"There's a big population and the level of (car ownership) is low. It's a good-sized market which is growing," said Peyman Kargar, a senior vice president at Nissan who heads operations in Africa, the Middle East and India, adding that the country's annual sales were likely to grow to 300,000 by 2022.AdvertisementThe Ghandhara Nissan plant, which has an annual capacity of 6,000 vehicles, would produce "several (Datsun) models based on the same platform to optimize the investment", Kargar said, declining to name specific models.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In neighboring India, Nissan markets its Datsun Go series of compact hatchbacks and people-carriers, while it launched its new Cross compact crossover sport utility vehicle (SUV) in Indonesia earlier this year.It will contribute technical assistance in the upgrade, while the automaker will also assess and assist local components makers in supplying parts. Kargar said he hoped local parts would initially comprise around 20 percent of vehicles, increasing afterwards.Comprising 6 percent of global sales, Africa, the Middle East and India is a growth area for Nissan, and Kargar said he expected to double the region's contribution to overall sales by 2022.Nissan's bet on Datsun to succeed in Pakistan comes as increasing sales of the entry-level brand has been a bright spot in India, a highly competitive market where the automaker's market share has eased to around 1.6 percent due to sluggish demand for its marquee Sunny sedan and its SUVs. In the 11 months to February, Nissan posted an 8 percent fall in overall Indian vehicle sales.($1 = 115.3800 Pakistani rupees)(Reporting by Naomi Tajitsu; Aditional reporting by Aditi Shah; Editing by Christopher Cushing)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 9:04 A.M. E.D.T.
KARACHI, Pakistan —  A Pakistani political party placed on the U.S. list of foreign terrorist organizations vowed on Wednesday to continue its political activities and participate in upcoming elections.The Milli Muslim League (MML) is controlled by Islamist leader Hafiz Saeed, who has a $10 million U.S. bounty on his head. The group shot to prominence after fielding a candidate in a September 2017 by-election to fill a seat vacated by deposed prime minister Nawaz Sharif.The U.S. State Department on Tuesday termed MML an alias for militant organization Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), or Army of the Pure, blamed for a bloody 2008 attack in India."We clearly state that on U.S. announcements we will not discontinue our political activities at any cost," MML president Saifullah Khalid said, reading from a statement in Karachi.Advertisement"Milli Muslim League will fully participate in the 2018 elections and will field candidates from across Pakistan."AdvertisementSaeed is the founder of LeT, which is also on the U.S. terrorist list and blamed by the United States and India for a four-day militant attack on Mumbai in 2008 in which 166 people were killed.Saeed has repeatedly denied involvement in the attack.Images of Saeed appeared on MML campaign posters during rallies held in two major Pakistani cities leading up to by-elections last year.The party was subsequently barred from participating in polls by Pakistan's electoral commission, a decision that was overturned by the courts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We have confidence in our higher judiciary ... MML will be registered and it will emerge as a big national party in future," Khalid said.Khalid termed the U.S. decision a violation of basic human rights and an open intervention in Pakistan's internal affairs, asking for the State Department to bring evidence before the courts."Make no mistake: whatever LeT chooses to call itself, it remains a violent terrorist group. The United States supports all efforts to ensure that LeT does not have a political voice until it gives up violence as a tool of influence," the U.S. State Department said in a statement.Under pressure from the United States, the United Nations and international institutions to crack down on terrorist financing, Pakistan drew up secret plans last December for a "takeover" of charities linked to Saeed.Saeed has since taken the government decision to court.Saeed's freedom in Pakistan, where he holds rallies, has been a thorn in Pakistan’s relations with old rival India and the United States.(Reporting by Syed Raza Hassan; Writing by Saad Sayeed; Editing by Nick Macfie)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 2:58 P.M. E.D.T.
BENGALURU —  Marriott International Inc is looking to lower the commissions it pays to online travel agencies starting with Expedia Group Inc when it renegotiates its contract with the company later this year, Chief Executive Officer Arne Sorenson said on Tuesday.Online travel agencies, already dealing with tight margins, are facing more pressure from hotel chains seeking to shift customers to book directly on their web and mobile platforms by providing incentives like free wifi and discounts."We would certainly like to pay less. We will have to see how the negotiations go," Sorenson told Reuters on the sidelines of a press conference in Bengaluru.Marriott will be renegotiating contracts with major online bookers for the first time since its merger with Starwood Hotels in September 2016 and the lower commissions could likely boost Marriott's revenue per room, but may hurt the travel agents.AdvertisementExpedia's would be the first major renewal with the current deal expiring later this year. The company will renegotiate its contract with Booking Holdings Inc sometime in 2019.AdvertisementThe Marriott chief was in India's global outsourcing capital Bengaluru to open the company's 100th hotel in the country, the Sheraton Grand Bengaluru Whitefield.Marriott currently pays a commission of upwards of 10 percent to online travel agencies, which currently contribute about 12 percent to Marriott's overall bookings.The bulk of company's bookings come from direct channels, including its mobile application and website.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We have seen significant growth in all digital channels...What has declined a bit would be travel agents, in part because people are moving online and doing things themselves," Sorenson said.The world’s biggest hotel chain is benefiting from strong economic growth in Asia Pacific region, led by China.Sorenson said that Marriott's partnership with ecommerce company Alibaba had driven a "few million" new members to sign up for its loyalty programs in China since the deal was inked in 2017.Marriott generates roughly 55 percent of its business from loyalty members.The company said on Tuesday it plans to expand its presence in India where it has more than 50 signed projects in its pipeline.The Bethesda, Maryland-based company expects to introduce three new brands, namely Moxy, Delta and Tribute in the coming few years in India, which is its second biggest market in Asia after China.The growth in India would raise its room inventory to more than 30,000 units, up from about 22,000 currently, Marriott said without providing a timeline.AdvertisementExpedia's shares were down nearly 1 pct at $106 in late afternoon trading on Tuesday.(Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bengaluru; Editing by Shailesh Kuber)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 5:50 A.M. E.D.T.
ISLAMABAD —  The United States has placed a Pakistani political group called the Milli Muslim League (MML) on its list of foreign terrorist organisations, saying it was merely an alias for a militant group blamed for a bloody 2008 attack in India.The Milli Muslim League is controlled by Islamist leader Hafiz Saeed, who has a $10 million U.S. bounty on his head. The group shot to prominence after fielding a candidate in a September 2017 by-election to fill a seat vacated by deposed prime minister Nawaz Sharif.Saeed is the founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), or Army of the Pure, which is also on the U.S. terrorist list and blamed by the United States and India for a four-day militant attack on the Indian city of Mumbai in 2008 in which 166 people were killed.Saeed has repeatedly denied involvement in the attack.The U.S. State Department said the Milli Muslim League alias had been added to the LeT's designations as a terrorist group.Advertisement"These designations seek to deny LeT the resources it needs to plan and carry out further terrorist attacks," the State Department said in a statement.Advertisement"Make no mistake: whatever LeT chooses to call itself, it remains a violent terrorist group. The United States supports all efforts to ensure that LeT does not have a political voice until it gives up violence as a tool of influence," it added.Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not immediately respond to request for comment.Saeed was placed under house arrest in January 2017 after years of living freely in Pakistan but a court ordered his release in November 2017.He was not available for comment on Tuesday.India welcomed the U.S. decision saying Pakistan has failed to crack down on militants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Terrorist individuals and entities are allowed to change names and continue to operate freely from territory under Pakistan's control," an Indian foreign office spokesman said in New Delhi."The designation ... highlights Pakistan's failure to fulfil its international obligation to dismantle terrorist sanctuaries, and disrupt terror financing," he added.Pakistan has previously denied any state involvement in the Mumbai attack or links with LeT and other militant groups. It placed the LeT on a list of banned organizations in 2002.In October 2017, Pakistan's electoral commission barred the Milli Muslim League from contesting elections, saying it had links to militant groups and could not be registered.In March 2018 the Islamabad High Court ordered the election commission to register the party.Under pressure from the United States, the United Nations and international institutions to crack down on terrorist financing, Pakistan drew up secret plans last December for a "takeover" of charities linked to Saeed.Saeed has since taken the government decision to court.Saeed's freedom in Pakistan, where he holds rallies, has been a thorn in Pakistan's relations with old rival India and the United States.Advertisement(Additional reporting by Sanjeev Miglani in New Delhi; Writing by Saad Sayeed; Editing by Michael Perry, Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 10:26 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Shares in India's largest state-run defence firm Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) fell as much as 7.7 percent on their market debut on Wednesday, following a tepid response to the company's 41 billion rupee (468 million pounds) initial public offering.The military aircraft maker's offering last week was subscribed at just 99 percent, a rare occurrence for an Indian IPO in recent years with most oversubscribed.Analysts said the offering has been hurt by competition from a number of IPOs due to hit the market this month and a fall in Indian stock markets from record highs reached in January.State-run life insurer, Life Insurance Corporation of India was allotted 70 percent of the shares on offer, or about a 7 percent stake in the company, which helped the offer sail through, a stock exchange filing showed.AdvertisementThe market's weak response could prove to be another setback to a booming Indian IPO market, which saw a record $11 billion of fund-raising last year.AdvertisementBrokerage ICICI Securities, an arm of India's third-biggest lender ICICI Bank, scaled back the size of its IPO on Monday and raised a lower-than-targeted $540 million.On Tuesday, however, shares of Bandhan Bank rose as much as a third on their market debut despite a weak broader market, suggesting investors are looking to buy into companies with strong fundamentals and attractive valuations.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Firms are in the process of raising more than $2 billion combined in IPOs in India in March."Due to the weak market conditions and the line-up of defence IPOs, this offering has not done so well," Tarang Bhanushali, assistant vice president, research at IIFL, said of HAL. "But we were bullish on the stock and even at current prices would recommend a buy from a long-term perspective."Other analysts have said that HAL's excessive dependence on government orders and a bumpy execution cycle were viewed as negatives despite India's push to increase self-reliance in defence production.The government is also considering whether to float stakes in helicopter service operator Pawan Hans and Airport Authority of India (AAI), which have long been in the pipeline.Shares in HAL closed down 6.76 percent at 1,132.85 rupees after dropping to a low of 1,121 rupees earlier in the day.The NSE share index ended down 0.69 percent and has lost around 9.5 percent from record highs touched in late January.(Reporting by Swati Bhat; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu and Susan Fenton)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:06 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Reaction after Cricket Australia (CA) banned sacked captain Steve Smith and vice-captain David Warner for 12 months and opening batsman Cameron Bancroft for nine months for their roles in the ball-tampering scandal in Cape Town.MICHAEL VAUGHAN, former England captain"Steve Smith I think is a good guy who made a huge mistake. He needed punishing but I think this is too harsh. Bancroft who I don't know was led astray but deserved punishing but again too harshly IMO (in my opinion). The other guy I really don't care about."TOM MOODY, former Australia all-rounder"What happened in South Africa is incredibly sad on so many levels but what appears clear in my view is the punishment certainly doesn't fit the crime."HARSHA BHOGLE, cricket commentator"I honestly do not believe any other country would have handed its captain and lead player a 12 month ban for attempted ball-tampering."AdvertisementSHANE WARNE, former Australia spinner"We are all so hurt and angry and maybe we weren't so sure how to react. We'd just never seen it before. But the jump to hysteria is something that has elevated the offence beyond what they actually did, and maybe we're at a point where the punishment just might not fit the crime."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.JOHN HOLDER, former test match umpire"The problem with cricket is this perception that cricket is a gentleman's game. Cricket is not a gentleman's game... as you get more and more money in cricket the pressure to win big money increases. Cricket now is about winning and players will cheat... do whatever they can get away with."AdvertisementSANJAY MANJREKAR, former India batsman"As expected, CA have been very strict in their punishment to the offending players. The major take away from this is how critical your track record is."MOHAMMAD KAIF, former India batsman"So with the one year ban on Smith and Warner and also a two year captaincy ban on both, think India will be favourites when they tour Australia later this year. Wonder, who will captain Australia at the World Cup. Aaron Finch?"(Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Christian Radnedge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 6:50 A.M. E.D.T.
MADRID —  World number two Rafa Nadal has been named in Spain’s squad for their Davis Cup World Group quarter-final against Germany in Valencia next month.The 31-year-old has not played in the competition since helping five-time winners Spain return to the top tier of world tennis with victory in India in 2016.Nadal was named in captain Sergi Bruguera’s team alongside Pablo Carreno Busta, Roberto Bautista Agut, David Ferrer and Feliciano Lopez.Nadal, 16-times grand slam champion, withdrew from the Australian Open in January after reaching the last eight due to an upper quad problem.He had been expected to return at the Mexican Open at the end of February, but missed his fifth tournament in a row.The Davis Cup quarter-finals take place over the weekend of April 6-8.(Reporting by Joseph Cassinelli, editing by Ed Osmond)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 25, 2018, 11:32 P.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Allegations that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's official mobile application was sending personal user data to a third party without their consent caused a furore on social media in India and drew criticism from the leader of the main opposition party on Sunday.Modi's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party denied https://twitter.com/BJP4India/status/977811651989680128 the allegations and said the data was being used only for analytics to offer all users the "most contextual content".A security researcher, who has previously highlighted some vulnerabilities in India's national identity card project and who tweets under the pseudonym Elliot Alderson, posted https://twitter.com/fs0c131y/status/977267255309463554 a series of tweets on Saturday stating the app was sending personal user data to a third-party domain that was traced to an American company.The tweets, which come at a time of heightened sensitivity around the alleged misuse of personal data amid the unfolding Facebook-Cambridge Analytica controversy https://www.reuters.com/article/us-facebook-cambridge-analytica-apology/facebooks-zuckerberg-says-sorry-to-britons-with-newspaper-apology-ads-idUSKBN1H10AF, triggered a stir in India on social media.Advertisement"Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India's Prime Minister. When you sign up for my official App, I give all your data to my friends in American companies," wrote https://twitter.com/RahulGandhi/status/977778259810226177 opposition Congress Party Chief Rahul Gandhi in a Twitter message on Sunday.AdvertisementThe BJP quickly responded on Twitter, saying Gandhi was trying to divert attention. The BJP has accused the Congress of engaging Cambridge Analytica in India, a charge the opposition party has denied.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Alderson, who initially pointed out that the Narendra Modi app was sharing data with a third party without the consent of users, earlier on Sunday posted a new tweet saying the app had "quietly" updated https://twitter.com/fs0c131y/status/977847395743617024 its privacy policy after his previous tweets.Reuters could not independently verify Alderson's claim.Prime Minister Modi has not commented on the issue.BJP said the app - which has seen about 5 million downloads on the Google Android Play Store - allows users access even in a guest mode that does not require them to grant any permissions."The permissions required are all ... cause-specific," the BJP tweeted.(Reporting by Devidutta Tripathy; Editing by Euan Rocha and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 2:43 P.M. E.D.T.
ZURICH —  Latin American fans are buying tickets for the World Cup in Russia faster than Europeans, according to figures published by global soccer body FIFA on Tuesday.FIFA said that 394,433 tickets were sold in the most recent sales period and 216,134 of those were allocated to fans from the host nation.Fans from the United States were the biggest buyers among foreign supporters with 16,642 tickets, even though their team has not qualified. However, as the numbers are based on country of residence, a proportion of the U.S. sales could come from the nation's large Hispanic community.The next five biggest purchasers were Argentina (15,006), Colombia (14,755), Mexico (14,372), Brazil (9,962) and Peru (9,766).AdvertisementGermany, whose team are the defending champions, was the top European nation with 5,974 tickets allocated while China (6,598), Australia (5,905) and India (4,509) completed the top ten.AdvertisementChina and India have also failed to qualify.FIFA said a total of 1,698,049 tickets have been sold overall since sales began in September, again dominated by fans from Latin America.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.U.S. residents were the top purchasers with 80,161 tickets, followed by Brazil (65,863), Colombia (60,199), Germany (55,136), Mexico (51,736), Argentina (44,882), Peru (38,544), China (36,841), Australia (34,628) and England (30,711).Russian fans have acquired 796,875 tickets.The final batch of tickets will go on sale from April 18, the organisation said.A number of European countries and the United States are in a major standoff with Russia, with expulsions of diplomats on both sides, over the poisoning of a former Russian spy in England last month. Britain has blamed the attack on Russia which has denied responsibility.(Reporting by Brian Homewood; Editing by Christian Radnedge and Toby Davis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By AUDREY CARLSEN and 
    
JUGAL K. PATEL

MARCH 22, 2018

More than 800 protests for stricter gun laws are planned for Saturday in the United States and in countries around the world, according to a website set up by the organizers.The demonstrations are part of a wave of activism since the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., where 17 people were killed by a gunman with an assault rifle on Feb. 14.Wash.Me.Mont.N.D.Minn.Ore.Vt.N.H.IdahoWis.S.D.Mich.N.Y.Wyo.IowaPa.Neb.OhioNev.Ind.Ill.UtahColo.W.Va.Kan.Calif.Va.Mo.Ky.N.C.Tenn.Ariz.Okla.ARK.N.M.S.C.Ga.MISS.ALA.TEXASLA.AlaskaFLA.HAWAIIWash.Me.Mont.N.D.Minn.Ore.Vt.N.H.IdahoWis.S.D.Mich.N.Y.Wyo.IowaPa.Neb.OhioNev.Ind.Ill.UtahColo.W.Va.Kan.Calif.Va.Mo.Ky.N.C.Tenn.Ariz.Okla.ARK.N.M.S.C.Ga.MISS.ALA.TEXASLA.AlaskaFLA.HAWAIIThe main rally, organized by survivors of the Stoneman Douglas shooting, will take place in Washington along Pennsylvania Avenue. Additional demonstrations appear to be planned in every state of the union, more than 700 nationwide.A month after the Parkland shooting, on March 14, thousands of students across the United States participated in a national school walkout to protest gun violence.Organizers say they have also planned demonstrations on every continent except Antarctica, though most will take place in the United States and Europe. A previous global demonstration on this scale came in January 2017, when women’s marches on every continent drew protestors.SouthKoreaFinlandAsiaJapanIcelandCanadaHawaiiIsraelPhilippinesIndiaMicronesiaEuropeVietnamSpainUnited StatesNorth AmericaGhanaAustraliaCosta RicaAfricaColombiaNew ZealandSouth AmericaAntarcticaArgentinaChileSouthKoreaFinlandAsiaJapanIcelandCanadaHawaiiIsraelEuropePhilippinesIndiaVietnamMicronesiaSpainUnited StatesNorth AmericaGhanaAustraliaCosta RicaAfricaColombiaNew ZealandSouth AmericaAntarcticaArgentinaChileFinlandIcelandCanadaIsraelEuropeSpainUnited StatesNorth AmericaGhanaCosta RicaAfricaColombiaSouth AmericaArgentinaChileSouthKoreaAsiaJapanHawaiiIndiaPhilippinesMicronesiaVietnamAustraliaNew ZealandAntarcticaFinlandIcelandCanadaIsraelEuropeUnited StatesSpainNorth AmericaGhanaCosta RicaAfricaColombiaSouth AmericaArgentinaChileSouthKoreaAsiaJapanHawaiiIndiaPhilippinesVietnamMicronesiaAustraliaNew ZealandAntarcticaAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:03 P.M. E.D.T.
BAGHDAD —  The remains of 38 Indian construction workers captured and killed by the Islamic State group in northern Iraq were handed over to Indian authorities in Baghdad to be flown home later Sunday.Indian Ambassador Pradeep Singh Rajpurohit said the bodies had been taken to Baghdad International Airport and would be flown back on a military flight, arriving in India on Monday.India's Minister of State for External Affairs, Vijay Kumar Singh, saluted the remains at the airport as workers loaded the caskets on the aircraft.Singh condemned terrorism and expressed his government's stance in fighting it."We are against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations," he told reporters, describing IS as "very cruel terrorist organization and our people have fallen to their bullets."AdvertisementIS abducted and killed the workers shortly after seizing the northern city of Mosul in the summer of 2014. Iraqi authorities discovered the remains in a mass grave last year after retaking Mosul, and positively identified the bodies last month.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The militants initially abducted 40 workers. One managed to escape, while the presumed remains of another have yet to be positively identified. Authorities are awaiting DNA samples from a first-degree relative.AdvertisementThe workers, most from northern India, had been employed by a construction company operating near Mosul. Around 10,000 Indians lived and worked in Iraq at the time. IS may have viewed the workers as polytheists deserving of death because of their Hindu or Sikh faith.IS swept across northern and central Iraq in 2014, eventually seizing a third of the country. Iraqi forces backed by a U.S.-led coalition eventually drove the militants from all the territory under their control in a grueling three-year campaign. The militants are still carrying out insurgent-style attacks.Dozens of mass graves have been found in areas held by the extremist group, which boasted about massacring its enemies and posted videos and photos of many of the mass killings online. Iraq has only managed to excavate a few of the sites due to a lack of funding and specialized staff.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 9:45 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Factbox on Australian coach Darren Lehmann, who said on Thursday he would be resigning his position after the test series against South Africa in the wake of the ball-tampering scandal:*Born: Feb. 5, 1970, Gawler, South Australia*Made test debut for Australia against India in 1998, scoring 52 and claiming one wicket.*He played 27 tests for Australia, scoring 1,798 runs at an average of nearly 45, with five centuries and 10 half-centuries. His last test was against Pakistan in 2004.*He represented the country in 117 one-day internationals, scoring 3,078 runs at an average of nearly 39 with four centuries and 17 fifties.*He was part of two World Cup-winning sides, playing a part as Australia lifted the 50-over trophy in 1999 and 2003.Advertisement*He was appointed head coach of the Australian team as Mickey Arthur's replacement in 2013.*Australia lost the Ashes series 3-0 in his first assignment that year but Lehmann helped the team regroup to win the ODI series.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.*He oversaw series victories over South Africa, England, India, New Zealand and West Indies.*He guided Australia to the 2015 World Cup title on home soil and masterminded two home Ashes series wins. Australia also lost two away Ashes series under his guidance.Advertisement*Lehmann extended his contract until 2019 to cover the World Cup and the Ashes series in England that year.* Cleared by Cricket Australia of any involvement in the 2018 ball-tampering scandal in the Cape Town test against South Africa that resulted in captain Steve Smith, vice captain David Warner and batsman Cameron Bancroft receiving lengthy bans.(Compiled by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 2:57 A.M. E.D.T.
GENEVA —  Swiss pharmaceutical firm Novartis is selling its stake in a consumer health care joint venture with GlaxoSmithKline to the British company for $13 billion.The joint venture was formed in 2015 and Novartis holds a 36.5-percent stake. Novartis CEO Vas Narasimhan said in a statement Tuesday that it "is progressing well," but "the time is right for Novartis to divest a non-core asset at an attractive price."Novartis said the sale will be a cash transaction, and is subject to the approval of GSK shareholders. The four Novartis-appointed directors on the joint venture's 11-member board will step down when the sale is completed.GSK said the original joint venture agreement gave Novartis the right to require GSK to buy all or part of its stake at any point between March 2 this year and 2035. It said that put option created "inherent uncertainty" for its financial planning.Advertisement"The new agreement to buy out Novartis' stake removes this uncertainty and improves the group's ability to plan allocation of capital to its other priorities," GSK said.It added that it is initiating a strategic review of Horlicks and other consumer health care nutrition products, the majority of whose sales are in India, "to support funding of the transaction" among other things. The review will include an assessment of GSK's 72.5 percent holding in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ltd., which sells the products in India.AdvertisementThe GSK consumer health care business had sales of 7.8 billion pounds ($11.1 billion) last year.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By MAX FISHER and 
    
AUDREY CARLSEN

MARCH 9, 2018

As China grows more powerful, it is displacing decades-old American preeminence in parts of Asia. The outlines of the rivalry are defining the future of the continent.We asked a panel of experts how they think the power has shifted in the past five years:Many countries are shifting toward China and away from the traditional American-led order.NORTHKOREASOUTHKOREAJAPANCHINABHUTANNEPALBut some countries are still working to counteract China.PAKISTANBANGLADESHINDIATAIWANMYANMARLAOSTHAILANDPHILIPPINESVIETNAMAnd others are hoping to play both sides.CAMBODIASRI LANKAMALAYSIAINDONESIAAUSTRALIAMany countries are now shifting toward China.But some are still  counteracting China.N. KOREAJAPANS. KOREABHUTANCHINANEPALPAK.BANG.INDIATAIWANMYAN.LAOSVIET.PHILIPPINESTHAILANDAnd others are playing both sides.CAMB.SRI LANKAMALAYSIAINDONESIAAUSTRALIABut some countries are still working to counteract China.Many countries are now shifting toward China.N. KOREAJAPANS. KOREACHINANEPALPAK.BANGL.INDIATAIWANMYAN.LAOSPHILIPPINESTHAILANDVIETNAMCAMB.And others are hoping to play both sides.SRI LANKAMALAYSIAINDONESIAAUSTRALIAMany countries are shifting toward China.N. KOREAS. KOREAJAPANCHINABHUTANNEPALPAKISTANBut some countries are still working to counteract China.BANGLADESHINDIATAIWANMYANMARLAOSPHILIPPINESTHAILANDVIETNAMAnd others are hoping to play both sides.CAMBODIASRI LANKAMALAYSIAINDONESIAAUSTRALIALast week, a group of 11 nations signed a trade deal that had originally been conceived as an American-led counterweight to China — but after President Trump pulled out, the pact went forward without the United States. It was the latest turn in Asia’s gradual transition from American dominance to something much more fluid.The stakes could hardly be higher: The two powers are seeking to reshape the economies and political systems of the world’s most populous region in its own image.The United States’ military capabilities still dominate Asia. But China has started to wield growing military power and economic leverage to reorder the region, pulling longtime American allies like the Philippines and Indonesia closer.The shift may accelerate under President Trump, whose volatile foreign policy and rejection of trade agreements is already forcing Asian nations to rethink their strategies.The trade deal reached last week is a powerful signal of how countries like Australia and Japan are forging ahead without American leadership. The deal replaces the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which Mr. Trump had effectively killed.Every Asian country now trades more with China, often by a factor of two to one, an imbalance that is only growing as China’s economic growth outpaces that of United States.How trade has shifted toward ChinaMore trade with U.S.More trade with China20112016MyanmarCambodiaVietnamLaosTaiwanMalaysiaSouth KoreaThailandAustraliaNepalNew ZealandPakistanIndonesiaBangladeshPhilippinesJapanSri LankaBhutanIndia010%5510More trade with U.S.China20112016MyanmarCambodiaVietnamLaosTaiwanMalaysiaSouth KoreaThailandAustraliaNepalNew ZealandPakistanIndonesiaBangladeshPhilippinesJapanSri LankaBhutanIndia010%5510Asian leaders know that their economies – and therefore, domestic politics – rely on Beijing, which has shown it will offer investment to friends and economic punishment to those who displease it.But another metric of great power influence, arms sales, shows United States’ enduring reach.U.S. arms sales still dominate Asian marketsArms sales by U.S.ChinaAustralia$3,789 millionSouth Korea3,626Taiwan2,953India2,782Singapore2,420Japan1,666Pakistan1,0053,656Indonesia447279Philippines261Thailand229131New Zealand136Bangladesh1,666110Brunei87Malaysia22Sri Lanka10Laos31Cambodia54Myanmar1,161Arm sales by U.S.ChinaAustralia$3,789 millionSouth Korea3,626Taiwan2,953India2,782Singapore2,420Japan1,666Pakistan1,0053,656Indonesia447279Philippines261Thailand229131New Zealand136Bangladesh1101,666Brunei87Malaysia22Sri Lanka10Laos31Cambodia54Myanmar1,161Countries that purchase American weapons bind their militaries and their foreign policies to the United States. The imbalance reflects the extent of American military relationships in Asia, which date back to World War II.Many of the 20 countries caught between Beijing and Washington face an impossible choice between Chinese wealth and American security.“These countries don’t want to have to choose sides,” said Tanvi Madan, an Asia specialist at the Brookings Institution.So they’re not. Instead, most are pursuing strategies intended to draw maximum benefit from both powers, minimize risks of angering either and preserve their independence.The result will likely be something very different from Cold War-era Europe, which was divided cleanly between two sides. Instead, the continent will fracture along many lines at once as countries accept, reject or manage China’s growing influence.Each strategy involves hard compromises and provides a model for how others in Asia, and perhaps one day globally, will cope with a Chinese-American world.CHINANORTHKOREASOUTHKOREAJAPANJapan is organizing an anti-China bloc.CHINAN. KOREAS. KOREAJAPANJapan is organizing an anti-China bloc.CHINANORTHKOREASOUTHKOREAJAPANJapan is organizing an anti-China bloc.Though the world is changing in Beijing’s favor, Japan is a reminder that China remains a long way from becoming an American-style power. And it provides a template for counteracting China.Japan is matching China’s rise with its own resurgence, leveraging its economy — the world’s third-largest — to build an independently powerful military and set of diplomatic relationships. It is attempting to reconstitute an informal and implicitly anti-Chinese alliance known as “the quad,” which includes India, Australia and the United States.The “quad” remains mostly aspirational, and its members so far exert only a fraction of China’s economic and military influence in the region.Still, Japan represents the headwinds facing Beijing. Asia’s largest economies and its leading democracies, rather than bending to Chinese power, are counterbalancing against it.Most countries lack Japan’s economic power, but they can still follow its lead. Rather than meekly accepting American withdrawal, Japan shows how countries can compensate for it.The region has more bad news for China. Even its sole ally, North Korea, is increasingly independent. Its nuclear and missile tests often appear timed to humiliate Beijing, and give China’s adversaries like Japan an excuse to build up their militaries. North Korea apparently hopes to one day strike a deal with Washington, allowing it to climb out from a half-century of Chinese dominance. If Beijing cannot keep even North Korea as a client state, it will have trouble cultivating others.CHINABHUTANNEPALPAKISTANINDIABANGLADESHChina is drawing a circle of allies around India, including Sri Lanka.SRI LANKACHINANEPALPAKISTANBHUTANINDIABANGLADESHChina is drawing a circle of allies around India, including Sri Lanka.SRI LANKACHINANEPALBHUTANPAKISTANINDIABANGLADESHChina is drawing a circle of allies around India, including Sri Lanka.SRI LANKASri Lanka might not seem like a geopolitical bellwether. But Asia-watchers have been glued to developments here since 2014, when a Chinese submarine sailed into a port built with Chinese investment. It marked a new era, in which China is converting its economic power into military power — and, in poorer democracies, into political influence.China has since developed more infrastructure projects across Asia, particularly in strategically vital ports and transit corridors. Those projects begin as joint developments but can end up in Chinese hands. In December, Sri Lanka, unable to pay debts on the port’s construction, granted China a 99-year lease.“The Chinese are using their abundance of labor, capital and workforce to project their influence,” said Mira Rapp-Hooper, a scholar of Asian security issues at Yale Law School. She added, “It’s mostly taking place in countries where the U.S. does not have a lot of influence or give a lot of aid.”This a promising model for China, whose economic strengths naturally fit the needs of small, developing countries. It is even pushing in countries where the United States has spent heavily, such as Pakistan. And it is slowly extending this model beyond Asia, giving it the outlines of what could one day be a global network.But small, poor allies are less powerful than rich ones, which tend pro-American, and Beijing can be clumsy when dealing with democracies.Still, China’s success in South Asia shows it can hem in a powerful adversary. It is leveraging trade and investment to build ties with every country on India’s border. Beijing’s unstated goal: encircle India before it can rival to Chinese power. While India is taking a harder line against China, it is less practiced in regional alliance-building and has fallen behind.CHINACountries like the Philippines are playing the U.S. and China off one another.MYANMARLAOSTHAILANDVIETNAMCAMBODIAPHILIPPINESMALAYSIAINDONESIAAUSTRALIACountries like the Philippines are playing the U.S. and China off one another.CHINAMYANMARLAOSVIETNAMTHAILANDCAMB.PHILIPPINESMALAYSIAINDONESIAAUSTRALIACountries like the Philippines are playing the U.S. and China off one another.CHINAMYANMARLAOSTHAILANDVIETNAMCAMB.PHILIPPINESMALAYSIAINDONESIAAUSTRALIAMany Asian leaders are eluding the great powers by hedging between them. Few have done so as creatively and brazenly as President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines.Upon taking office in 2016, Mr. Duterte suggested that he might end his country’s 65-year alliance with the United States. He rushed to Beijing, promised cooperation with China and – as if to signal there was no going back – crudely insulted then-President Barack Obama.Instead, Mr. Duterte ended up collecting concessions from both powers. The Americans reduced Mr. Duterte’s obligations to the alliance while continuing to guarantee his country’s defense. The Chinese offered Mr. Duterte favorable terms on maritime disputes and possible investment deals.He never did switch sides.Such stories have played across Southeast Asia, where China has been at its most confrontational. Beijing had hoped that it could coerce smaller countries to accept its dominance. Washington thought it might galvanize an anti-Chinese bloc. Nearly every country has found a middle path.Even Vietnam, a traditional Chinese adversary, has resisted both Chinese influence and American overtures. Almost two years after President Obama lifted his country’s arms embargo on Vietnam, hoping to bring it into the American fold, it still buys most of its arms from Russia.But China’s leverage in the region can only grow, particularly if the United States continues withdrawing. Ms. Rapp-Hooper called attention to growing scandals in Australia and New Zealand over Chinese influence-buying.“These countries could not be more aligned with our interests, but there is still a lot of discomfort about stepping away from Chinese money,” she said. “Those are tests of what we’re up against.”This is another possible future: countries subject to influence from both powers, with American and Chinese hands on their economies and politics. It’s a future that is both American and Chinese, with nations in the middle neither fully independent nor clearly aligned.The map represents the aggregate views of a panel of five experts: Aaron Connelly of the Lowy Institute, Bonnie S. Glaser of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Jennifer Lind of Dartmouth College, Tanvi Madan of the Brookings Institution, Mira Rapp-Hooper of Yale Law School.AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 2:52 A.M. E.D.T.
CAPE TOWN —  Cricket South Africa have confirmed a two-test tour of Sri Lanka In July along with five One-Day Internationals that will provide preparation for next year’s World Cup in England and Wales.Fresh from home series wins over Bangladesh, India and Australia this season, it will be the sixth time South Africa have toured Sri Lanka, having previously claimed series success in 1993 and 2014.The first test will be played in Galle (Jul. 12-16) and the second in Colombo (Jul. 20-24), followed by the five ODIs that start on Jul. 29 in Dambulla. There will also be a single Twenty20 International played in Colombo on Aug. 14.The original tour schedule had involved three tests, according to reports, but Sri Lanka Cricket asked for one of these to be replaced by an extended limited overs series that is more commercially viable.Advertisement"This will be a very important tour for us," CSA acting Chief Executive Thabang Moroe said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We have a lot of exciting, young players coming into our side in all three formats and, with so much of our international cricket being played on the sub-continent these days it is important they get used to those conditions as soon as possible."The ODI series forms an important part of our team preparation for next year’s World Cup in England.Advertisement(Reporting By Nick Said; Editing by Amlan Chakraborty)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 5:20 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  South Africa wicketkeeper Heinrich Klaasen will replace banned Australian Steve Smith in the Rajasthan Royals team for this year's Indian Premier League (IPL), organisers said on Monday.Former Australia captain Smith and his deputy David Warner were handed 12-month bans by Cricket Australia for their roles in a ball-tampering scandal in South Africa.The pair have also been banned from this year's IPL starting on Saturday with a match between defending champions Mumbai Indians and twice winners Chennai Super Kings.Klaasen was bought for a modest 5 million Indian rupees (£54,654) to replace Smith whom Rajasthan had retained for 120 million rupees to lead the side in the eight-team tournament. India middle-order batsman Ajinkya Rahane will captain the side.AdvertisementKlaasen, 26, has played four one-day and three Twenty20 Internationals for South Africa, all against the visiting Indian side last month.Warner, who quit as Sunrisers Hyderabad captain following the scandal in South Africa, has been replaced by England opener Alex Hales in the IPL side.Advertisement(Reporting by Amlan Chakraborty in New Delhi; editing by Ed Osmond)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 11:43 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc may submit an offer https://www.livemint.com/Companies/TsSn1a2CheYUMUvRQeuhRK/Amazon-may-make-rival-bid-for-Flipkart.html to buy Indian e-commerce firm Flipkart, which is currently in talks with Walmart Inc for a stake sale, local daily Mint reported, citing sources.A deal with Walmart is more likely to go through, according to people with knowledge of the matter, the report added.Amazon declined to comment while Flipkart did not immediately respond to a request seeking comment.Walmart is in talks to buy a stake of over 40 percent in Flipkart, a direct challenge to Amazon in Asia's third-largest economy.The U.S. retailer will buy a majority stake through a mix of primary and secondary share purchases in a deal that could value Flipkart at $21 billion, the Mint report said.AdvertisementThe deal with Walmart is expected to aid Flipkart in its fight against Amazon, which has committed to investing $5 billion in India as it expands aggressively, including into online grocery deliveries, which analysts tip as the next big battleground for the country's e-commerce sector.Flipkart, founded by former Amazon employees Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal in 2007, controls nearly 40 percent of India's online retail, ahead of Amazon, according to estimates by research firm Forrester.Advertisement(Reporting by Jessica Kuruthukulangara in Bengaluru; Editing by Sunil Nair)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 9:03 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - India on Tuesday withdrew rules to control "fake news" less than 24 hours after announcing them, following an outcry that the regulations could be used by the government to curb press freedom.Some other governments in Asia, however, have introduced laws to crack down on fake news or are in the process of setting them up.Co-opted by U.S. President Donald Trump, the term "fake news" has quickly become part of the standard repertoire of leaders in several countries to describe media reports and organisations critical of them.Following is a list of action against fake news taken by governments in the region:- Malaysia has passed a law which sets out fines of up to 500,000 ringgit ($123,000) and a maximum six years in jail for offenders who spread fake news inside and outside Malaysia, including foreigners, if Malaysia or a Malaysian citizen are affected. The law, which comes ahead of a general election, covers news outlets, digital publications and social media.Advertisement- India withdrew plans to temporarily or permanently cancel government accreditation of journalists found to be spreading fake news, with Prime Minister Narasimha over-ruling the initial announcement by the information and broadcasting ministry. The accreditation is required to access government offices, news conferences and seminars and serves as security clearance at many other events.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.- In Singapore, a parliamentary committee has been reviewing possible measures to prevent "deliberate online falsehoods". An eight-day hearing - the longest in Singapore's history - drew to a close on March 29. The committee will prepare a report on possible new legislation in May, after parliament's mid-term break, its chairman, Charles Chong, told the final session.Advertisement- Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has "lost trust" in news site Rappler and barred it from covering his official events, his spokesman said in February. Duterte has called Rappler a fake news outlet, making no secret of his annoyance at its reporting, which has heavily scrutinised his polices and the accuracy of his statements. Additionally, anti-fake news legislation, which would impose fines and prison terms of up to 20 years for spreading false information, is under consideration in the Philippines.- Thailand already has a cyber-security law under which the spread of false information carries a jail sentence of up to seven years, and the military government strictly enforces lese majeste laws that shield the royal family from insult.(This version of the story corrects name in paragraph six)(Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan, Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:42 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  SoftBank said Wednesday that it is investigating a shareholder campaign that sought the ouster of former Google executive Nikesh Arora, who had been groomed to lead the Japanese technology company.Arora, who joined SoftBank as president from Google in 2014, had been expected to succeed Son as head of the company. But in 2016, SoftBank founder and Chief Executive Masayoshi Son said Arora was leaving. Son remained at the helm.The Wall Street Journal reported this week that some shareholders had conducted a smear campaign to discredit and oust Arora."A special committee of the SoftBank Group Board of Directors is investigating these matters. The special committee has reached no conclusions in its investigation and does not intend to comment further until the completion of its investigation," the Tokyo-based company said.AdvertisementIn 2016, SoftBank said an investigation at that time into allegations against Arora that were raised in letters from a law firm claiming to represent shareholders found no wrongdoing.Arora had led Softbank's growing investments in Asia, especially in India, during his time at the company.AdvertisementWhen Son announced Arora's departure, he said he had decided to stay on at the top at least for another decade.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By CARLOS TEJADA and 
    
KARL RUSSELL

MARCH 6, 2018

China was mentioned only in broad terms when President Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. But the country was a major driver behind the action. China makes large amounts of steel and aluminum, flooding the global market with cheap products. That hurts American producers, though it makes steel cheaper for everyone who uses it.Targeting China alone wouldn’t work. It is the world’s largest steel maker, but sends only a tiny fraction of its output to the United States. Chinese steel makers serve mostly Asian markets.Top origins ofU.S. imported steelTop destinations ofChinese exported steelCanadaSouth Korea16%16%Vietnam10Brazil13Philippines6ThailandSouth Korea410Indonesia4India4Mexico9Pakistan32Malaysia2Hong Kong2Russia9MyanmarTurkey7Japan5Taiwan4Germany3Rest ofthe world472IndiaRest ofthe world22Top origins of U.S. imported steelTop destinations of Chinese exported steelCanadaSouth Korea16%16%Vietnam10Brazil13Philippines6ThailandSouth Korea410Indonesia4India4Mexico9Pakistan3Malaysia22Hong Kong2Russia9MyanmarTurkey7Japan5Taiwan4Germany3Rest of the world47India2Rest of the world22Instead, to hit China, the Trump administration must go much broader with its tariffs. While details are scant and the focus could change, the measures would hit steel from countries around the world, including from American allies like South Korea and Canada.The global nature of the tariffs has sparked worries that they will set off a trade war.Steel has long been a sore spot in trade between the United States and China. Washington has levied more tariffs and countermeasures against Chinese steel than it has against steel from any other place.1.China242.South Korea183.India164.Japan125.Taiwan126.Turkey117.Brazil88.Indonesia69.Mexico6Number of U.S. traderemedies in effectagainst steel imports10.Thailand411.Ukraine412.Germany2Antidumpingduties13.Italy214.Moldova2Countervailingduties15.Russia216.South Africa2Suspensionagreementsand undertakings17.Britain218.Vietnam214All others1.China242.South Korea183.India164.Japan125.Taiwan126.Turkey117.Brazil88.Indonesia69.Mexico610.Thailand411.Ukraine4Number of U.S. traderemedies in effectagainst steel imports12.Germany213.Italy214.Moldova215.Russia2Antidumping duties16.South Africa217.Britain2Countervailing duties18.Vietnam219.Australia1Suspension agreementsand undertakings20.Belarus121.Belgium122.Latvia123.Malaysia124.Netherlands125.Oman126.Pakistan127.Poland128.Romania129.Spain130.Sweden131.Trinidad & Tobago132.United Arab Emirates1American steel makers argue that Chinese steel hurts them anyway. Faced with American tariffs, the argument goes, Chinese steel mills simply send their products elsewhere. That drives down global prices and pushes other countries to export cheap steel to the United States.Appearing with Mr. Trump on Thursday, David B. Burritt, the chief executive of U.S. Steel, alluded to the idea when he referred to the steel trade issue as “the Whac-A-Mole game.”But any global trade fight goes back to China. Thanks to its rapid industrialization over the past four decades, China now makes roughly as much steel as the rest of the world combined. While it consumes much of what it makes, China is also by far the world’s largest exporter, although the amount it sells overseas has been on the decline.Largest steel producers900million metric tons800China700600500Japan400IndiaUnited States300RussiaSouth Korea200Germany100TurkeyBrazil0Italy’07’16’17Largest steel exporters120million metric tons100China80Japan’17*60RussiaSouth KoreaGermany40ItalyUkraineBelgium20TurkeyFrance0’07’16Largest steel producersLargest steel exporters900million metric tons120million metric tonsChina800100700China60080500’17*6040030040JapanJapanIndiaRussiaUnited StatesSouth Korea200RussiaGermany20South KoreaItalyGermany100UkraineTurkeyBelgiumBrazilTurkeyItaly00France’07’16’17’07’16Largest steel producersLargest steel exporters900million metric tons120million metric tonsChina800100700China60080500’17*6040030040JapanJapanIndiaRussiaUnited StatesSouth Korea200RussiaGermany20South KoreaItalyGermany100UkraineTurkeyBelgiumBrazilTurkeyItaly00France’07’16’17’07’16Largest steel producersLargest steel exporters900million metric tons120million metric tonsChina800100700China60080500’17*6040030040JapanJapanIndiaRussiaUnited StatesSouth Korea200RussiaGermany20South KoreaItalyGermany100UkraineTurkeyBelgiumBrazilTurkeyItaly00France’07’16’17’07’16Largest steel producersLargest steel exporters900million metric tons120million metric tonsChina800100700China60080500’17*6040030040JapanJapanIndiaRussiaUnited StatesSouth Korea200RussiaGermany20South KoreaItalyGermany100UkraineTurkeyBelgiumBrazilTurkeyItaly00France’07’16’17’07’16In taking aim at China’s steel makers with broad tariffs, the United States could hurt its trusted allies. Consider South Korea. China is the single biggest source of its imported steel. South Korea is also a major exporter to the United States. In terms of raw volume, however, South Korea’s exports to the United States total about one quarter of what it imports from China.Canada, too, imports steel from China and South Korea; it exports steel to the United States. While the United States stands as its biggest market for steel both coming and going, Canada exports more steel to the United States than it imports.America’s trading partners have room to retaliate. Some of the biggest steel exporters to the United States are some of the biggest buyers of American products.The European Union has said it would target bourbon, blue jeans and Harley Davidson motorcycles, products with an especially American flavor. Canada has also threatened to fight back.U.S. exports in 2017In billions, total: $1.55 trillion1586U.S.43729101. CANADA $2826. GERMANY $532. MEXICO $2437. SOUTH KOREA $483. CHINA $1308. NETHERLANDS $424. JAPAN $689. HONG KONG $405. BRITAIN $5610. BRAZIL $37In billions, total: $1.55 trillionU.S. exports in 20171.CANADA$2825. BRITAIN $568. NETHERLANDS $426. GERMANY $537. SOUTHKOREA $483.CHINA$130UNITED STATES4.JAPAN$682.MEXICO$2439. HONGKONG $4010.BRAZIL$37In billions, total: $1.55 trillionU.S. exports in 20171.CANADA$2825. BRITAIN $568. NETHERLANDS $426. GERMANY $537. SOUTHKOREA $484.JAPAN$683.CHINA$130UNITED STATES2.MEXICO$2439. HONGKONG $4010.BRAZIL$37In billions, total: $1.55 trillionU.S. exports in 20171.CANADA$2825. BRITAIN $568. NETHERLANDS $426. GERMANY $537. SOUTHKOREA $484.JAPAN$683.CHINA$130UNITED STATES2.MEXICO$2439. HONGKONG $4010.BRAZIL$37U.S. exports in 2017In billions, total: $1.55 trillion1.CANADA$2825. BRITAIN $568. NETHERLANDS $426. GERMANY $537. SOUTHKOREA $484.JAPAN$683.CHINA$130UNITED STATES2.MEXICO$2439. HONGKONG $4010.BRAZIL$37A trade war is far from guaranteed.China has put greater emphasis on exporting higher-valued products, like finished machinery and high-tech goods, rather than raw steel. Beijing may not want to endanger its markets in those products.But steel and aluminum may be only a first step. Administration officials have expressed concerns about China’s growing ambitions in industries like semiconductors, telecommunications equipment and other high-tech exports.If Mr. Trump goes after tech, the effects could eat into the Chinese economy. That could provoke Beijing to go much further.Alexandra Stevenson contributed reporting.AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 7:33 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Factbox on Australian opening batsman Cameron Bancroft, who was banned for nine months by Cricket Australia on Wednesday in the wake of the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa.*Born: Nov. 19, 1992, Perth, Australia.*Made his test debut in the Ashes series against England in November last year, scoring five and 82 not out in the opening test in Brisbane.*He has played eight tests for Australia and has scored 402 runs at an average of nearly 31, hitting three half-centuries.*He has played in one Twenty20 International, against India at Sydney in 2016.*The Western Australia batsman was third on the Sheffield Shield scoring charts in the 2014-15 season, accumulating 896 runs at an average of just over 47.Advertisement*He was called up to the Australian test squad for the 2015 tour of Bangladesh which was scrapped due to safety worries.*He racked up 732 runs in the 2015-16 Sheffield Shield campaign at an average of 45.75.*He played for Gloucestershire as an overseas player in the early part of the 2016 county championship season but managed only one half-century in five matches.Advertisement(Compiled by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Christian Radnedge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:20 A.M. E.D.T.
HONG KONG —  Acquisitive Chinese conglomerate Fosun International, which owns Club Med and a stake in Cirque du Soleil within its broad portfolio, aims to invest at least 20 billion yuan ($3.2 billion) in technology in the next three years.Fosun's technology investments, which will focus on biotech, fintech and artificial intelligence technologies, are expected to reach at least 100 billion yuan in the next ten years, its executives said at an earnings briefing in Hong Kong."For every company, if you are not led by the technology, you (probably) won't have a future," its billionaire chairman, Guo Guangchang, said on Wednesday, a day after Fosun reported a 28.2 percent jump in its annual profit to a record high, its fastest growth in four years.Fosun is one of China's most acquisitive conglomerates and has in the past months snapped up two European fashion labels and taken control of a Brazilian broker in deals worth a combined $245 million. It also holds stakes in an assortment of lifestyle companies, including AHAVA, an Israeli skincare brand.AdvertisementOn Wednesday, Guo told investors and reporters that Fosun was looking to increase its investments in India, Africa and Portuguese-speaking countries going forward, as it diversifies its focus beyond developed markets in the West.Advertisement"When we invest in Europe and the U.S., we set eyes on the future direction. But when we move to (invest in) India and Africa, we actually know better where they should head to."The group, like a handful of Chinese conglomerates, is also turning its sights to the domestic market amid a crackdown by Beijing on flashy and non-essential overseas acquisitions by its private conglomerates.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In December, Fosun and its units acquired a 17.99 percent stake in Tsingtao Brewery Co from Japan's Asahi Group Holdings. In the same month, it sold off a Sydney office tower for A$142.5 million ($109 million) as part of its efforts to par back its foreign real estate portfolio.The group has also moved to strengthen its balance sheet, reduce net debt, and balance its acquisitions with asset sales.Its net gearing ratio, which used to be a long-time concern among investors and analysts, fell to 49.7 percent from 60.3 percent at end-2017.In January, Moody's Investors Service upgraded Fosun's corporate family rating to Ba2, still speculative, citing the firm's "improved business profile" and expectations that the company would maintain current leverage ratios.(Reporting by Julie Zhu; Additional reportying by Sumeet Chatterjee; Editing by Himani Sarkar)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:26 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Australia's long held belief that they play their cricket "hard but fair" would appear to have little truck outside their own country if the splenetic reaction to the Cape Town ball-tampering scandal is anything to go by.The intense interest in the incident around the world reflects not only surprise at Steve Smith blithely admitting the conspiracy to cheat but also a perception that the Australian team are serial offenders in bending and breaking the rules.Australia captain Smith and his team mates have been rendered friendless in the cricketing world since he and Cameron Bancroft's admission on Saturday that they had planned to tamper with the ball in the third test against South Africa.The Times of India, the cricketing superpower's best selling English daily, called the Australia side "Repeat Offenders", listing six other controversial incidents they have been involved in the past.AdvertisementThe news of the stepping down of Smith and his vice captain David Warner for the remainder of the test won by the hosts on Sunday was the top story for the daily and was prominently placed on the front pages of most newspapers in India on Monday.AdvertisementAustralia have always asserted they do not use underhand means and never cross the 'line' -- be it in sledging opposition players on the field or the aggression they show towards them.The perception the rest of the world has is that the so-called 'line' can soon shift when the Australian players are on the receiving end."Clearly Australian team's track record of its conduct on &  off the field coming into play here," former India test batsman and television pundit Sanjay Manjrekar tweeted."(Cricket Australia) must not look at this incident in isolation but see if this team is creating the right image of its nation. They have a far more crucial role to play here than the ICC (International Cricket Council)."Twitter users reminded the world of Smith's "brain fade" during the second test in India in Bengaluru last year when opposition captain Virat Kohli stopped just short of calling his counterpart a "cheat".Smith and batting partner Peter Handscomb were caught looking towards the area outside Australia's dressing room, where television replays can be seen, while discussing whether to review a verdict, prompting the umpire to intervene.Kohli accused Smith and his team of looking towards the players' area on numerous occasions but the Australia captain rubbished the home skipper's claims.AdvertisementBROAD SURPRISEDIn Cape Town on Saturday, Smith asserted Bancroft's use of the tape and dirt to change the condition of the ball had been a tactic used for the first time by an Australian team.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.There was no shortage of cricketers and pundits ready to challenge that line.Fast bowler Stuart Broad, who played in all five tests of England's recent 4-0 defeat in Australia, was one of them."I saw Steve Smith in his press conference say it's the first time they've tried it -- which to me, it's surprising why they'd change a method that's been working," Broad told reporters in Auckland."Look at the Ashes series we've just played, all those test matches, and they've reverse-swung the ball sometimes in conditions you wouldn't expect it to. I don't understand why they've changed their method for this one game."(But) there was no evidence that they were doing this in the Ashes series, from what I've seen."Cricket Australia's official complaint to their South African counterparts over verbal abuse aimed at their players by the crowd during the series was also seen as hypocritical.There was a heated exchange at tea on the fourth day of the first test in Durban, when Warner accused South Africa wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock of making comments about his wife, Candice.The Australian players accused their opponents of crossing the line in making personal comments while coach Darren Lehmann called the crowd behaviour "disgraceful".Lehmann was the same man who identified Broad as a target for crowds Down Under to abuse during the 2013 Ashes, which England lost 5-0."I've always been a bit of a believer, in sport... if someone wants to take you on verbally ... then you're allowed to say something back," Broad said.Advertisement"Just from the outside, it looks like Australia have started a lot of fights and are moaning when someone comes back."Any England player, or probably media, that have toured Australia can laugh at those comments really, because some of the comments we hear on the pitch by Australian supporters."Having toured South Africa, I know it's worse than South Africa."(Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly; editing by Nick Mulvenney)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.MARCH 25, 2018
Cassidy Chea Luitjen and Eric Yablong Minoff were married March 24 at Club Giraud in San Antonio. Mark R. Luitjen, a retired Texas state judge and the bride’s father, officiated at the event, which incorporated elements of Episcopal and Jewish wedding traditions.The bride, 33, is a marketing manager at PepsiCo in New York. She graduated from Columbia. She also received a master's degree in decorative arts, design history and material culture studies from the Bard Graduate Center in New York.She is the daughter of Dawna C. Luitjen and Mr. Luitjen of San Antonio. The bride’s mother serves on the board of Servants of the King, a nonprofit organization founded by the bride’s grandfather Kemper B. Crabb, with the mission to build churches, orphanages, schools and hospitals in Africa and India.The groom, 34, works in New York as a senior specialist and head of sales in the collectors’ motorcars department at Bonhams, a privately owned British auction house. He graduated from Emory University.He is a son of Alan Minoff of Wilmette, Ill., and the late Judy Yablong. The groom’s father retired as a vice president for mergers and acquisitions at Sears in Chicago. His mother worked in marketing at Butler Gum, also in Chicago.The couple met in 2012 while working at Bonhams in New York.A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 2018, on Page ST15 of the New York edition with the headline: Cassidy Luitjen,  Eric Minoff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 25, 2018, 6:11 A.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Blackstone Group is buying stakes in two major office properties in central Mumbai as part of a deal with Indiabulls Real Estate, two sources with knowledge of the transaction said on Sunday.Indiabulls Real Estate said in a regulatory filing over the weekend that it had signed definitive agreements with entities controlled by Blackstone to "indirectly divest" 50 percent of two units at an aggregate enterprise value of about $1.46 billion but did not name the real estate assets.The sources, who declined to be named, told Reuters that Indiabulls Finance Centre and One Indiabulls Centre in central Mumbai were the assets in which Blackstone would take 50 percent stakes.The deal is expected to close before the end of the financial year in March, Indiabulls Real Estate said in the filing, adding that it would use a substantial part of the proceeds to repay debt.Blackstone, which is among the biggest real estate investors in India, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.(Reporting by Devidutta Tripathy and Promit Mukherjee; Editing by David Goodman)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 7:59 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI/SAN FRANCISCO —  U.S. technology giant Apple Inc and India's telecoms regulator are at loggerheads over the development of a government anti-spam mobile application, with user privacy at the heart of a deepening rift between the two sides.The latest impasse comes after Apple in October agreed to provide some help to the regulator to tap into new iOS features to build the "Do Not Disturb" app, which allows users to report unsolicited calls and text messages as spam.At issue has been Apple's contention that allowing the app broad access to customers' call and text logs could compromise privacy.The arguments are the latest example of challenges faced by global technology players, who often need to balance user privacy while handling requests from governments and regulators around access to content on devices. In July, Apple removed apps from its Chinese App Store that helped users browse the Internet privately in order to comply with a new cyber security law.AdvertisementIn India, despite October's agreement, the two sides have not met since November, and the Indian regulator told Apple in January it was still waiting for "basic clarifications" on what exactly can the iOS version of its app offer, according to a government source with direct knowledge and an email exchange seen by Reuters.AdvertisementApple told Reuters last week the government app "as envisioned violates the privacy policy" of its App Store. Apple said it had been working with government engineers and would "continue discussing ways they can design their app to keep users' personal data safe".Apple's stance, though, has irked the head of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), R.S. Sharma, who says he will consult his legal team on how Apple could be pushed to help develop the application more swiftly."We will take appropriate legal action," Sharma told Reuters in an interview. "This is unjust, it shows the approach and attitude of this company."He did not elaborate on what action the regulator might take.Apple did not comment on Sharma's remarks, but said that it shared TRAI's goal of protecting customers from unwanted calls and messages.NUISANCE CALLSMillions of Indians are inundated by telemarketing calls and other unsolicited text messages daily in the world's second largest wireless telecoms market behind China.The Android version of TRAI's "Do Not Disturb" app was introduced in 2016. When opened for the first time, it requires users to grant the app permissions to access contacts and view text messages and then allows users to report them as spam.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Google has said keeping users' information secure is its top priority and the company believes in "openness and in the ability of users to make purchasing and downloading choices without top-down enforcement or censorship".Apple said it would not modify its guidelines to allow any app access to contacts, see call logs or view text messages as those functionalities violate a user's data security and privacy.AdvertisementTRAI's Sharma disagrees. "Users should be in control of this data," he said.Apple said it has offered to have its technical teams meet TRAI, but a government source said the regulator was awaiting more details from the company before proceeding.The tussle comes at a critical time for Apple as it looks to India as a key growth market where it is also in talks to expand iPhone manufacturing.TRAI has in the past taken decisions that have dented the plans of other tech giants. In 2015, it called for the suspension of Facebook's pared-back free Internet service, Free Basics, and months later it dashed the company's plans by supporting net neutrality - a principle that says Internet service providers should treat all traffic on their networks equally - effectively barring the service.Things could be tougher in Apple's case, however.Any outright legal challenge by Sharma - an official who has previously worked as the federal IT secretary - is likely to be harder for TRAI to pursue as it directly regulates only licensed telecom providers.Nevertheless, Sharma could request the department of telecommunications - which he works closely with - to invoke a decades-old law that allows the government to impose regulations even on handset makers, according to two Indian lawyers who specialize in technology policy."It's likely to be more of a public relations battle against Apple rather than a legal one," said Kunal Bajaj, a former TRAI consultant.(Reporting by Aditya Kalra and Stephen Nellis; Editing by Euan Rocha, Jonathan Weber and Alex Richardson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:27 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Reaction after deposed Australian captain Steve Smith, opening batsman Cameron Bancroft and coach Darren Lehmann held news conferences in the wake of last week's ball-tampering scandal in Cape Town.MATT PRIOR, former England wicketkeeper"Fair play Bancroft and Steve Smith taking it head on and fronting up. That was hard to watch and can't imagine what they're going through. People make mistakes but being able to own up and take responsibility takes guts."HERSCHELLE GIBBS, former South Africa batsman"Hard scenes watching the interviews with the 2 ozzie (sic) blokes. Having been through it all, take it on the chin and live with the consequences but remain true to yourself."MICHAEL VAUGHAN, former England captain"'Good people make mistakes'.. I honestly think Steve Smith & Cam Bancroft are decent guys who had a moment of madness..  they deserve a 2nd chance and hopefully get the right support around them now ... Takes a lot guts to do what they did today."AdvertisementMITCHELL JOHNSON, former Australia bowler"Tough to watch Cameron & Steve go through the 2 statements they just made. They will learn from this & be better in the future I'm sure!"AdvertisementMARK BUTCHER, former England batsman"Just watched Smith presser. Hope everybody has had their pound of flesh now."KEVIN PIETERSEN, former England batsman"Just seen @stevesmith49's press conference. As a parent, I'm gutted for him & his family! Shout me down if you want, but I'm speaking as a parent! It will get better mate!"MICHAEL CLARKE, former Australia captain"DEVASTATING!"HARSHA BHOGLE, Indian cricket commentator"Haven't Australia made enough of a spectacle of Steve Smith? I'm blown by what he is being put through."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.RYAN HARRIS, former Australia test bowler"So very hard to watch, well done Smithy and Bangas, horrible to see the pain they are in! They did wrong but will be back bigger and better! #goodyoungmen"MOHAMMAD KAIF, former India batsman"Feel the pain he (Smith) is going through. Waiting for him to come back soon and cause delight to fans across the world with his supreme batsmanship. Remember Warne served a 1 year ban for a banned substance and came back with 26 wkts in 3 tests against SL."MICHAEL DI VENUTO, former Australia batsman"Absolutely shattering watching these press conferences. Not hard to tell what type of people these guys are. Cricket Aus losing some great people through one poor choice. #human #forgive."SACHIN TENDULKAR, former India batsman"They are regretting and hurting and will have to live with the consequences of their act. Spare a thought for their families as they have much to endure along with the players. Time for all of us to take a step back and give them some space."SHOAIB AKHTAR, former Pakistan bowler"At least Steve Smith has the courage to admit like a man but absolutely gutted to see Steve Smith breaking down... and also the way people (are) treating him @ Airport & in Australia. It's sad, leave that poor chap alone now."(Compiled by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 3:49 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  Britain's biggest supermarket chain Tesco said on Tuesday the price of its own brand fizzy drinks will not increase after a sugar levy comes into force this week as they already fall below a government-imposed threshold.Britain will implement the levy from April 6 on makers of sugary drinks, a move advocated by health campaigners arguing that they are a source of empty calories.A charge of 18 pence ($0.25) per litre will be levied on drinks containing 5 grammes or more of sugar per 100 millilitres and 24 pence per litre on drinks containing 8 grammes or more.But Tesco said it had spent years cutting the level of sugar in its own label products and will not be subject to the levy.Advertisement"Over the last decade, we've been working in partnership with our suppliers to make our own-label soft drinks healthier, by reformulating them to reduce sugar content," said Head of Soft Drinks Phil Banks.Advertisement"This work has meant that we've been able to cut over 9 billion calories from customers' annual diets," he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Tesco, which has 28 percent market share in Britain and also operates abroad, said 85 percent of the drinks sold in its stores will be exempt from the charge although some brand prices will rise.But cuts in sugar, including to soft drinks Irn Bru, known as Scotland's second national drink, have prompted outrage among some fans.Confectioner Nestle also said last month it was launching a lower-sugar Milkybar in a bid to partly address one of Big Food's toughest challenges - how to make junk food healthy but keep it tasty.The "war on sugar" being waged by governments and consumers to combat public health emergencies like diabetes is slowing growth in global demand, challenging countries such as Brazil and India reliant on the sector.(The story corrects millimetres to millilitres in third paragraph)(Reporting by Costas Pitas; editing by Stephen Addison)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 25, 2018, 7:41 A.M. E.D.T.
MELBOURNE —  Team by team analysis of Sunday's Australian Formula One Grand Prix (teams listed in championship order):- - - -FERRARI (Sebastian Vettel 1, Kimi Raikkonen 3)Vettel won in Melbourne for the second year in a row and third time in total. The German had the virtual safety car to thank for allowing him to pit and stay ahead. The podium was his 100th, making Vettel only the fourth driver to reach that milestone, and the win his 48th. Raikkonen, who started in second place with Vettel third, now has 92 podiums.-MERCEDES (Lewis Hamilton 2, Valtteri Bottas 8)Hamilton led from pole (his 73rd and record seventh in Australia) but lost out to Vettel, who stayed out after the Briton and Raikkonen had pitted and was rewarded by the virtual safety car being deployed just as he was about to come in. Bottas started 15th after crashing in qualifying.-RED BULL (Daniel Ricciardo 4, Max Verstappen 6)Ricciardo started eighth after a three place grid drop and moved up thanks to the two Haas cars retiring and Verstappen suffering a 360 degree spin on lap 10. The Australian still missed out on an elusive home podium. Verstappen started fourth but lost a position at the start to Magnussen. He said something broke on the car, causing the spin.-MCLAREN (Fernando Alonso 5, Stoffel Vandoorne 9)Alonso, who started 10th, equalled McLaren's highest finish from their three dismal years with Honda in the team's debut with Renault power. The double points finish represents McLaren's best start to a season since 2014.Advertisement-RENAULT (Nico Hulkenberg 7, Carlos Sainz 10)A solid start for Renault but still behind their two customer teams. Hulkenberg started seventh while Sainz was ninth on the grid. The Spaniard struggled with a problem with his drinks bottle, which left him feeling sick.Advertisement-FORCE INDIA (Sergio Perez 11, Esteban Ocon 12)No points for Force India, who had Perez chasing Sainz at the end. The team, fourth overall last year, are hoping for a step up at the next race in Bahrain, with new parts to come. Ocon passed Stroll at the start and then battled with Bottas.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.-SAUBER (Charles Leclerc 13, Marcus Ericsson retired)Formula Two champion Leclerc made his debut and chalked up a first finish. Ericsson, who has not scored a point since 2015, retired on lap six with an hydraulic issue.-WILLIAMS (Lance Stroll 14, Sergey Sirotkin retired)Debutant Sirotkin was the first retirement, pulling over on lap four with a rear brake failure that may have been caused by a stray plastic bag that blocked the cooling. Stroll started 13th, his car was in the wrong mode on the opening lap and he then lost out to Leclerc after the safety car re-start.-TORO ROSSO (Brendon Hartley 15, Pierre Gasly retired)Hartley made an early pit stop after flat-spotting the tires into turn one at the start. He then had a puncture on the second stint. Gasly retired with a power unit failure, the first after a trouble-free testing with new partners Honda.-HAAS (Romain Grosjean and Kevin Magnussen retired)What had looked like bringing a points bonanza for the U.S.-owned team, who qualified fifth and sixth, ended in bitter disappointment, with both cars retiring after being released from pitstops with loose left side wheels. The team were fined 10,000 euros ($12,000) for the breach. Magnussen had been fourth at the end of the first lap, Grosjean fifth.($1 = 0.8097 euros)(Reporting by Alan Baldwin, editing by Pritha Sarkar)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.