
Social Q’s By                     
PHILIP GALANES

MARCH 29, 2018
I am a multiracial woman from a small family that is otherwise white. A close relative is in hospice care. My family made it clear that they expect me, my (immigrant) husband and our young son to visit him before he dies. But this relative has become active in alt-right causes, posting offensive material about minorities, immigrants and women on Facebook. Some family members have asked me to “leave politics at the door” and “turn the other cheek.” Others threatened to ostracize us if we don’t visit. Should I?A.S.Ignore your relatives’ claptrap. Leaving politics at the door is easy — so long as it’s not your race, husband or gender being trampled inside its threshold. And have you noticed that requests to “turn the other cheek” are most popular with folks asking us to turn ours, but rarely their own? Finally, the threat of ostracism (a.k.a. bullying) is ridiculous. Who needs relatives that turn off and on like spigots?No, the only reason to make a pilgrimage to see this problematic relative is if the man ever treated you with love and kindness — even as a child. If he did, you have at least one thing to weigh against the hate-mongering of his later days. It may not be enough for you, and I would respect that too, but it’s something to keep in mind.The other consideration is the suffering of his immediate kin. If you have a tender impulse toward them, in what is surely a terrible time, I can envision a farewell visit that is made for their sake and not for the dying man’s. There are a few moving pieces here, even putting aside your relatives’ sillier claims. Think about it, and wherever you land is the right answer (for you).AdvertisementA close friend who was in my wedding party and his then-girlfriend came to my wedding without giving us a gift. Now, two years later, this couple is getting married. My wife and I cannot agree how to handle the situation. Should we address the situation directly with our friends or just give them a wedding gift?The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.ANONYMOUSThe cost of being a groomsman can range from several hundred to several thousand dollars, depending on clothing requirements, wedding locations and bachelor parties — or worse, bachelor-party weekends. In this context, it is probably not factually correct to say your friend gave you nothing. (And speaking for a tiny subset of the universe: I don’t want to be in anyone’s wedding — ever! Factor that in, too.)AdvertisementMy advice: Peruse your pal’s wedding registry, choose a lovely gadget from Williams Sonoma, and stop nursing wounds from two years ago. A “close friend” is worth much more than a blender — especially if he shows up for you on your big days.Years ago, I lent my friend an expensive handbag. (It cost more than a car.) We agreed that I would ask for it back when I wanted it. Two years later, I asked for it back. She told me her sister borrowed it and lost it. I was extremely annoyed but let it go. Later, I ran into the sister. When I asked how she lost the bag, she said she had no idea what I was talking about. Since then, I saw my friend wearing the bag at an event. She lied to me! I asked for the bag immediately, and have reiterated the request several times since then, but she always puts me off. What should I do?S.L.Undoubtedly, it is hard to learn that a pal values your handbag more highly than you. (At least it’s expensive!) Fortunately, I own a plate by the artist John Derian with an old handwritten note from the Algonquin Hotel decoupaged on it. It contains the perfect advice for your predicament: “Please don’t make me make trouble for you in trying to get my things back. I shall not write you again myself and will give you the rest of this week to return them.” After sending a version of this note, and waiting said week, turn over the matter of the automobile-priced purse to the local police.I have a 9-month-old daughter. Sometimes, when we are out, strangers ask to take her picture. I feel awkward about this and would prefer they didn’t. But how can I express this without offending someone who just told me how cute my baby is?MEIThe same way I did, last week, when a woman approached my table in a restaurant and asked if she could photograph my fluke tartare to post on Instagram. I smiled and said: “Thank you for asking. But I’d rather you didn’t.” She looked confused but left eventually. We have no duty to cater to strangers with cameras.Until your daughter is old enough to make her own modeling decisions, you must make them for her, governed by her best interests, not the (sort of understandable) desire to avoid momentary awkwardness with utter strangers and their creepy requests. It’s the job, Mom!For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com, to Philip Galanes on Facebook or @SocialQPhilip on Twitter.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Noam CohenEven as it issues full-page apologies in print newspapers promising ritualistically “to do better,” Facebook and its allies have minimized the importance of the seismic revelation that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked on behalf of the Trump campaign in 2016, had gained access to the private information of about 50 million Facebook users.Some executives have pointed out that the mechanism that until a few years ago allowed a researcher with 270,000 app downloads to have access to 50 million profiles wasn’t exactly a secret, and, besides, Facebook users nominally agreed to the sharing of these profiles so that apps would perform better. The company’s chief security officer, Alex Stamos, took to Twitter to complain that Facebook and other “platforms” were being held to a double standard concerning the profiles, since they may well “have been criticized as monopolists for locking them down.”Others poured cold water on the idea that Cambridge Analytica was able to use these profiles as grist for its research on swaying voters by cracking the code of human intention. Marc Andreessen, the venture capitalist and a Facebook board member, doesn’t tweet anymore, but he “likes” hundreds of tweets a week, a group that recently included a string that mocked the public’s fear that new media forms can be turned into “weapons of total mind control.”Perhaps these are the wrong reasons for outrage, but that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t be outraged. What Facebook is selling to political campaigns is the same thing Uber is selling to its drivers and customers and what YouTube is selling to advertisers who hope to reach an audience of children — namely, the right to bypass longstanding rules and regulations in order to act with impunity.When you look at the Facebook data leak scandal this way, you realize that Facebook’s irresponsibility isn’t merely an abuse of a personal relationship — what its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, called “a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us” — but also an abuse of a civic relationship.Selling relief from government scrutiny of elections is a different kind of threat to the social fabric than selling relief from government scrutiny of commerce, especially in light of our country’s record of denying voting rights to African-Americans. Facebook can’t be allowed to be a tool for enemies of democracy because it fears that regulation could hurt its bottom line.What was valuable about allowing a presidential campaign to evade regulation? Well, to start, we know that Facebook, unlike a small-market TV station, didn’t care about Russians buying political ads, even when they paid in rubles. That’s a shock to our political system, which is meant to protect against foreign interference. But more menacing is the prospect that the Trump campaign and its allies may have been given free license by Facebook to suppress African-American turnout through “dark ad posts” that disappeared after viewing.Shortly before the election, a senior official with the Trump campaign bragged to the Bloomberg reporters Joshua Green and Sasha Issenberg, “We have three major voter suppression operations underway,” which the article described as targeting “idealistic white liberals, young women, and African-Americans.” Brad Parscale, who ran the Trump campaign’s digital advertising, is quoted in the same piece discussing his plan to use dark ad posts of an animation of Hillary Clinton referring in 1996 to some African-Americans as “super predators.” Parscale suggested that the campaign would use this image to discourage a demographic category described by the reporters as infrequent black voters in Florida. “Only the people we want to see it, see it,” he explained. “It will dramatically affect her ability to turn these people out.”Some of the dark Facebook ads, bought by suspected Russian fronts, have been released as part of congressional investigations into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, and these include an ad meant to depress black support for Hillary Clinton by referring to conspiracy theories involving her husband. What other dark Facebook ads might have been placed on behalf of the Trump campaign to suppress black turnout? Were there classic examples of voter suppression, like publishing the wrong Election Day date or falsely warning that you can be arrested at your polling place if you owe payment on a traffic ticket? We don’t know — the dark ads have disappeared and Facebook won’t release them, citing the privacy of its advertisers.Facebook’s vast and well-designed platform offered the Trump campaign and its supporters cheap, direct access to African-American voters — and along with this the chance to mislead and intimidate. In the past, candidates intent on suppressing the black vote ran up against technological barriers. They had to work with fliers and obscure radio ads, since reputable media outlets, unlike Facebook, tended to push back against racially inflammatory, untrue political advertising. Fliers and radio ads leave a public residue, too.The election of 2016, the first after Barack Obama’s presidency, was notable for a seven-percentage-point decrease in African-American turnout, from 66.6 percent in 2012 to 59.6 percent, according to the Pew Research Center. This was the first decline in 20 years in a presidential election and the largest ever recorded. The 2016 turnout rate was also below even the rate for the 2004 election, when John Kerry was the Democratic candidate.At a hearing with the top lawyers from Facebook, Google and Twitter about Russian meddling in the 2016 election, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota began by emphasizing the stakes involved. “I come at this with the simple idea that our democracy was formed to be self-governing,” she said, adding that American citizens have “a right of freedom to make their own decisions — and I think that was interfered with by Russians and also others.”This simple idea of the United States as a self-governing community wasn’t the focus of the many mea culpa interviews Mr. Zuckerberg gave after reports of the data breach. He was focused on the individual. “A lot of the most sensitive issues that we faced today are conflicts between our real values, right?” he said in an interview with Recode. “Freedom of speech and hate speech and offensive content. Where is the line, right?”Todd A. Cox, the director of policy of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, sees the question of our “real values” a bit differently. “There has been a lot of agonizing and struggling over the place of First Amendment,” he told me. “I would like the discussion to turn on what role does the 14th Amendment, the Voting Rights Act, 15th Amendment play” — the guarantees of equal protection under the law and of the right of African-Americans to vote. That is, in addition to Facebook’s libertarian, Silicon Valley perspective that sees only the personal questions — my right to say what I want, my privacy — we must consider the collective questions: How do we protect historically discriminated groups? How do first we make sure everyone is able to speak through free, fair elections before we argue about what they can say?This week, Facebook delayed the release of its home assistant devices and unveiled yet another attempt to make its privacy settings clear and easy to use. “We’ve heard loud and clear that privacy settings and other important tools are too hard to find, and that we must do more to keep people informed,” Facebook’s chief privacy officer, Erin Egan, and deputy general counsel, Ashlie Beringer, said in a statement announcing the new privacy system.Facebook is insistent on seeing its failures as harming individuals, never society as a whole. The legal scholar Alexander Bickel was fond of saying, “No answer is what the wrong question begets.” Facebook has been asking the wrong question consistently for more than a decade, which is why its privacy scandals can seem like the longest running show in Silicon Valley. Recent events have offered us a chance to reframe the question about how to fix Facebook. It is one that all Americans should have a voice in answering.Noam Cohen (@noamcohen) is the author of “The Know-It-Alls: The Rise of Silicon Valley as a Political Powerhouse and Social Wrecking Ball.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy SHEERA FRENKEL and NELLIE BOWLESMARCH 30, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook employees were in an uproar on Friday over a leaked 2016 memo from a top executive defending the social network’s growth at any cost — even if it caused deaths from a terrorist attack that was organized on the platform.In the memo, Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook vice president, wrote, “Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de facto* good.”Mr. Bosworth and Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, have since disavowed the memo, which was published on Thursday by BuzzFeed News.But the fallout at the Silicon Valley company has been wide. According to two Facebook employees, workers have been calling on internal message boards for a hunt to find those who leak to the media. Some have questioned whether Facebook has been transparent enough with its users and with journalists, said the employees, who asked not to be identified for fear of retaliation. Many are also concerned over what might leak next and are deleting old comments or messages that might come across as controversial or newsworthy, they said.The brouhaha follows a period of intense scrutiny for Facebook and questions over what its responsibilities are to its more than 2.2 billion users. The company has been grappling this month with revelations that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested data from 50 million of the social network’s users. Mr. Zuckerberg has since been on an apology tour over data privacy and is expected to testify before lawmakers in Washington.AdvertisementFacebook did not respond to a request for comment over employees’ reaction to the leaked memo.In the aftermath, some Facebook executives have taken to Twitter for a public charm offensive, sending pithy phrases and emoticons to reporters who cover the company. Adam Mosseri, Facebook’s head of news feed, in recent days wrote unprompted to a BuzzFeed editor and to its chief executive reminiscing and telling a story about his mother. He also wrote to a reporter from the Verge tech site about the songs played at his wedding reception.AdvertisementIn some of his tweets, Mr. Mosseri also defended Facebook. When writers from Vox and BuzzFeed tweeted that they noticed that stories critical of Facebook were receiving surprisingly low levels of traffic on Facebook, Mr. Mosseri jumped in.“We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us,” he tweeted.
            We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us.        Mr. Bosworth, the author of the 2016 memo, also took to Twitter. Late Thursday, he said he did not agree with what he wrote in the memo “and I didn’t agree with it even when I wrote it.” He added that “the purpose of this post, like many others I have written internally, was to bring to the surface issues I felt deserved more discussion with the broader company.”The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After BuzzFeed published the memo, Mr. Bosworth deleted it from an internal message board where it had originally been posted. In a statement to BuzzFeed, Mr. Zuckerberg praised Mr. Bosworth as “a talented leader who says many provocative things” and said that he and most people at Facebook did not agree with the memo and that the company had realized that it could not just be about connecting people.Facebook employees said on Friday that discussions were raging across the company regarding the merits of the post. Some called for executives to aggressively pursue action against those leaking to the media, said two Facebook employees, as well as for the company to do more to screen for potential whistle-blowers during the hiring process.At least one former Facebook employee, Alec Muffett, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Bosworth’s memo was responsible for his decision to leave the company.“Between overwork and leadership direction evidenced thusly, I could never stay,” wrote Mr. Muffett, who formerly worked as a Facebook engineer.
            Backplot: my "goodbye" posting to Facebook was in significant part in response to this work by @boztank, and subsequently garnered considerable support from Facebook's under-represented Engineering community, who genuinely do care about user privacy: https://t.co/GaoHLYoh17 “There are some amazing engineers working at Facebook, folks who care deeply about user privacy, security, and how people will use the code that they write,” Mr. Muffett said later in a message. “Alas this episode may not help” to achieve more transparent internal product discussion, he said.Follow Sheera Frenkel and Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @sheeraf and @NellieBowles.A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Memo on ‘Ugly Truth’  Angers Facebook Staff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick WingfieldThe recent tribulations of Facebook, which has lurched from crisis to crisis over the last year, most recently over the handling of users’ personal data, has pushed a few of the industry’s most prominent names to speak out against the company.Marc Benioff, the chief executive of Salesforce.com, has compared the deleterious effects of social media to those of tobacco and alcohol, and has called for more regulation of those tech companies. Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, has also suggested new regulation protecting personal data might be in order for businesses like Facebook.“I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary,” Mr. Cook said recently at an event in China, referring to Facebook’s recent problems.But don’t expect a long lineup of other industry leaders to speak out any time soon.Although technology companies have their differences, a spirit of comity prevails among its leaders in moments of crisis. For example, technology chiefs have mostly kept quiet about Uber’s travails — from its efforts to sidestep law enforcement to a pedestrian death caused by one of its self-driving cars — even if they might express their opinions privately.Representatives from companies as varied as Amazon, Microsoft and Slack declined to comment for this story. Part of the silence, people in the industry say, comes from a desire to avoid the business equivalent of bad karma — knowing that they, too, may one day face the buzz saw of public censure.Others say companies have little moral standing to criticize Facebook’s practices, when they have themselves relied on the social network to acquire customers, using the same ad-targeting tools that rely on personal data that have stirred up so much controversy in the context of politics.“I think we just have to acknowledge the entire industry’s complicity with what’s happening with Facebook,” said Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an internet real estate firm. “It’s almost like we’re Inspector Renault in ‘Casablanca’ where we say we’re shocked, shocked with what’s happening and then a moment later someone hands us our winnings.”“We’ve all been advertising avidly on Facebook,” Mr. Kelman added.Many companies are also linked to Facebook through partnerships, professional organizations and a worldview about the power of data that is not all that different from that of Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook.“It has been really hard for executives to turn their back on the gold mine of big data even in the face of compelling arguments to do so,” said Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook and a mentor of Mr. Zuckerberg’s before becoming one of the company’s most vocal detractors. “The C.E.O.s who are stepping forward here are taking the long view.”Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to comment.There are many critics of Facebook in Silicon Valley. They include former tech workers, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs like Brian Acton, who became a billionaire when Facebook acquired WhatsApp, a messaging company he helped found. “It is time. #deletefacebook,” Mr. Acton posted on Twitter last month.But there are few active corporate leaders in Silicon Valley who have taken a stand. Most of the handful of chiefs who have spoken out against Facebook have long been forthright on the topic of privacy. It is no coincidence that their businesses do not rely on the collection of personal data to the same degree that most internet companies do. Mr. Cook of Apple, which makes the vast majority of its revenue from the sale of devices, has for years declared that “when an online service is free, you’re not the customer — you’re the product.”Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.When asked about the Facebook’s difficulties at an event in China recently, Ginni Rometty, chief executive of IBM, said companies needed to give their users better control over their personal information. “Ginni has long believed that individuals or customers own their data — not platforms,” said Edward Barbini, a spokesman for IBM.Noah Theran, s spokesman for the Internet Association, a trade group that counts Facebook and Salesforce among its members, though not Apple and IBM, said maintaining privacy and security was a top priority for internet companies.“Internet companies comply with a wide variety of data privacy and security laws and regulations that are actively enforced by the F.T.C. and state attorneys general,” Mr. Theran said. “Trust and comfort with our products and services is essential to a thriving internet, and the internet industry is committed to providing people with information and tools to make informed choices about how their personal information is used, seen and shared online.”Another tech leader, Elon Musk, chief executive of Tesla and SpaceX, said recently on Twitter that none of his companies advertise on the social network and vowed to take down the official Facebook pages for Tesla and SpaceX.“It’s not a political statement and I didn’t do this because someone dared me to do it,” he wrote. “Just don’t like Facebook. Gives me the willies. Sorry.”Mr. McNamee, the early Facebook investor, believes more industry leaders should speak out, partly because he predicts the United States can and should eventually adopt more stringent regulations akin to those emerging in Europe.“Companies that get ahead of that curve,” he said, “will be way more successful than those who can pretend they can sustain the old model.”Advertisement
Common Sense By                     
 JAMES B. STEWART
 
MARCH 29, 2018
Over the last half decade, few stocks have been more beloved by investors and Wall Street analysts than Facebook. No wonder: After a rocky initial public offering in 2012, it has rolled over one obstacle after another, including the shift to mobile computing and the rise of photo sharing. It delivered revenue and user growth that surpassed even the most optimistic projections.By the end of last year, Facebook had 2.2 billion active users. Its stock rose 53 percent last year, single-handedly accounting for 3.7 percent of the 21.8 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, according to S.&P. Dow Jones Indices. By early February, its market capitalization had surpassed $560 billion, making it the fifth most valuable company in the index.By then Facebook alone accounted for nearly 2 percent of the S.&P. 500 index, which means that anyone who owns a broad-based stock mutual fund or index fund probably owns Facebook shares. Sophisticated investors and institutions, too, have considerable exposure: Goldman Sachs analysts reported last month that Facebook was the second most widely held stock (after Amazon) by hedge funds.Over 90 percent of Wall Street analysts covering the company deemed Facebook a “buy” in early February, even though, at $195 a share, its price-to-earnings ratio, a common valuation measure, was a lofty 35. (The average ratio now is about 24; historically, it has been about 15.)AdvertisementIt was, as Wall Street pundits like to say, “priced for perfection.”Whatever else can be said about Facebook’s recent tribulations, this much is certain: Its situation is far from perfection.AdvertisementAfter revelations that data harvested from Facebook may have been used to try to influence Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and the United States presidential election, the social network giant faces multiple investigations in both Europe and the United States, along with potentially profit-crimping regulations and limits to its use of data. And investor retribution has been swift.Since hitting its peak on Feb. 2, Facebook has lost an astonishing $100 billion in market capitalization. Its stock was trading midweek at close to $153 a share, a decline of nearly 22 percent. (It rebounded by about 4.5 percent Thursday and closed at $159.79.)With Facebook’s plunge, investor concerns have spread to other social media and internet stocks with lofty multiples, like the so-called FANG stocks — Facebook, Apple and Amazon, Netflix and Google — and Twitter. They accounted for more than 10 percent of the S.&P. 500 at their peak.
            Since 2014, Facebook has been one of the hottest stocks in the market, but its recent troubles have caused it to lose about a quarter of its value.        +400%Facebookstock price+300+200+100I.P.O.S.& P. 500-stock index0–100’12’18MARCH 29, 2018
“People who own an index fund need to realize how important Facebook is, and how big a role it and the FANG stocks played in the market’s rise,” said Howard Silverblatt, senior industry analyst for the S.&P. Dow Jones Indices, who oversees statistical analysis for the S.&P. 500. “The FANG leadership is faltering. Social media hasn’t faced much regulation, and now there’s a cloud hanging over those companies.”In the midst of past Facebook euphoria, few saw this coming. One that did was Aiera, a robot that uses artificial intelligence to make stock recommendations. Aiera, an acronym for artificially intelligent equity research analyst, put out a “sell” recommendation for Facebook last fall.So did Brian Wieser, a senior analyst at Pivotal Research Group  who covers media and internet companies. Although he was positive about the stock for most of its long climb, he downgraded Facebook to “sell” last summer based on regulatory and advertiser concerns and what he now considers “systemic management issues.”Not only was it a lonely position, but “the stock went up and up,” Mr. Wieser told me this week. “But I thought the market was wrong, full stop.”Advertisement“I didn’t know what the catalyst would be, but at some point revenue growth had to slow and the margins go down,” he said. “There are practical limits. And I felt investors were looking at Facebook in much too positive a light. They just ignored all the bad things, and there were a lot of them.”Then, when the news broke this month that a British firm, Cambridge Analytica, had used Facebook data for voter profiling, Mr. Wieser said, he thought it was “the most significant thing that had happened to Facebook since it became a public company.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Most people hadn’t given much thought to how their data is used,” he added. “But this really exposed the potential abuse. This is digital advertising’s original sin, and there’s going to be a reckoning that even now I don’t think most investors fully appreciate.”The other Facebook skeptic, Aiera, can talk, but Wells Fargo — whose global internet analyst, Ken Sena, developed the robot along with Bryan Healey — wasn’t making its wunderkind available for interviews. But based on Aiera’s published comments, it issued its sell recommendation after analyzing the frequency of negative mentions in the media of Russia’s use of Facebook to influence the presidential election, as well as fundamental valuation and technical factors. (Aiera uses artificial intelligence to read and analyze a half-million pieces of data per day gleaned from the internet. It currently analyzes more than 1,600 stocks.)Wells Fargo has stressed that Aiera remains in experimental mode, but one potential advantage is that it removes all human emotion from its analysis. Thus, Aiera was indifferent to the fact that nearly every other analyst had a buy recommendation on Facebook.That included her putative master, Mr. Sena, who was thrust into the somewhat awkward position of explaining his own buy recommendation even as Aiera said sell.When I spoke to him this week, Mr. Sena stressed that Aiera was a tool that could detect patterns and eliminate bias. “Aiera said election interference was a big deal, and it turned out it was a big deal,” Mr. Sena said. “But it’s not meant to supplant human judgments.”He hasn’t changed his buy recommendation even though he agrees with Mr. Wieser that investors need to take threats of regulation seriously. “The conventional wisdom was that people don’t care that much about how their data is used,” Mr. Sena said. “They like the convenience of targeted advertising. But the level of public outcry over this is new.’’“Facebook is going to have to do a lot of explaining,’’ he added. “I believe they have the capability and the technology to make the platform secure. But it’s going to distract from other initiatives investors are counting on for growth, like virtual reality and video content.”AdvertisementEven so, Facebook’s decline has been so steep that even Mr. Wieser and Aiera may reassess their recommendations if they calculate that the stock has bottomed out.When he last reiterated his sell recommendation, Mr. Wieser’s price target was $152. “I don’t want to be trigger happy on this,” he said. “It’s not clear yet what happens next. I want to fine-tune my thoughts before I revisit this.”Aiera canceled her sell recommendation after the stock plunged. She hasn’t yet made a new recommendation. Of 45 analysts who cover Facebook, 41 currently have a “buy” or “overweight” recommendation, up from 39 a month ago.Mr. Sena is even more bullish on Facebook than he was before, and hasn’t changed his price target of $230. “People are still glued to Facebook and Instagram,” he said.Its price-to-earnings ratio is now just 28, barely above the market average, which makes it “the cheapest stock in our coverage area, and it has some of the best growth prospects,” he said. “There’s no way mathematically to justify a loss of more than $70 billion in market cap.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the given name of Facebook’s chief executive. He is Mark Zuckerberg, not Jeff.A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: As Facebook Loses Luster, Tech Stocks Await Fallout.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the op-ed section.As recently as 2010, Mark Zuckerberg, the founder and chief executive of Facebook, believed that privacy was no longer a “social norm.” But over the past few weeks — and not a moment too soon — he and his colleagues have learned that privacy still matters to individuals and society.Revelations about how Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that worked for Donald Trump’s campaign, amassed data about more than 50 million Facebook users without their consent has forced the social media company to tell anyone who will listen that it takes privacy very seriously. Last week, Facebook said it was simplifying and centralizing privacy settings, making it easier for its more than two billion users to change how much personal information they share. That was an important and necessary change, but what we have learned about the data collection practices of social media firms, advertisers, political campaigns, online publishers and other groups suggests that company-specific changes like Facebook’s will be insufficient. What is needed is for Congress to adopt rigorous and comprehensive privacy laws.The technology and advertising industries have long resisted such rules, and neither this Congress nor the Trump administration has shown any interest in privacy. But someday new politicians will be in charge, and now is as good a time as any to begin a serious examination of how American privacy regulations can be strengthened.There’s no need to start from scratch. In 2012, President Barack Obama proposed a privacy bill of rights that included many ideas for giving people more control over their information, making data collection more transparent and putting limits on what business can do with the information they collect. The bill of rights fizzled out when Congress showed little appetite for it. But the European Union has used a similar approach in developing its General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect on May 25.The new European rules are not perfect — they include the so-called right to be forgotten, which allows people to ask companies to delete personal information that they no longer wish to share. That could be implemented in ways that limit free speech. But the Europeans have made progress toward addressing some of the problems that have recently been highlighted in the United States. For instance, their laws require companies to seek consent before collecting sensitive personal information, to make the request understandable, and to give users an easy way to opt in to sharing such data, rather than forcing them to opt out if they don’t want to be tracked. Further, companies that want to collect data about Europeans will have to be upfront about how they use personal data, and they cannot collect more information than they need to provide the services they are offering. The Obama bill of rights included a similar concept, saying that personal information should only be used in “ways that are consistent with the context in which consumers provide the data.”Today, it is standard procedure for many companies to vacuum up as much data as they can by getting users to agree to long, impenetrable terms of service. Companies might not even know how they will use the information being collected but collect it anyway, in case they later develop a specific use for it. Recently, some Facebook users discovered that the company’s Android app had been logging metadata from every incoming and outgoing phone call and text message, in some cases for years. The company said that users had consented to sharing this information and that doing so “helps you find and stay connected with the people you care about, and provides you with a better experience across Facebook.” That statement is positively Orwellian. It’s hard to believe that many people would have given the company access to so much personal data if they actually understood what they were agreeing to.The new European regulation will also let people access their own data, transfer their information from one business to others that provide a similar service and delete it altogether under certain circumstances. Companies will have to notify customers within 72 hours if they become aware of a breach of personal information.Many businesses will struggle to comply with the European Union’s new rules, and officials in member countries will have a hard time enforcing it consistently. “We will have a learning curve,” said Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, who heads France’s privacy regulator, the Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés. “We will have to adjust.”But it is increasingly clear that businesses will figure out how to live with and make money under tougher privacy rules. Some companies are also planning to apply some or all of the data protection requirements to all of their customers, not just Europeans. And other countries have or are considering adopting similar rules. Throughout history, meatpackers, credit card companies, automakers and other businesses resisted regulations, arguing they would be ruined by them. Yet, regulations have actually benefited many industries by boosting demand for products that consumers know meet certain standards.Facebook and other internet companies fear privacy regulations, but they ought not to. Strong rules could be good for them as well as for consumers.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy JACK NICASAPRIL 1, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Ryan Knight, a Democratic activist in Los Angeles, called for a boycott of Apple in February because it hadn’t responded to calls to delete a channel from the National Rifle Association from its streaming-video service after the Parkland, Fla., school shooting.“Dear @Apple,” Mr. Knight wrote on Twitter. “Your silence is deafening. #BoycottApple.” More than 330 accounts retweeted the message.How did Mr. Knight post the message? He used an iPhone.As the reach and influence of Silicon Valley’s tech giants have increased, so have the calls to boycott their products and services. The problem is that pulling off a boycott is not exactly easy: The tech companies’ products are so pervasive that they are difficult to avoid.That issue was crystallized in recent weeks with Facebook. Hundreds of people deleted their accounts after revelations that the political-data firm Cambridge Analytica had improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Yet many of those same people promptly instructed their friends to find them on Instagram, which is owned by — you guessed it — Facebook.Advertisement“It’s exactly the same company. I realize it’s ridiculous,” said Sachi Cunningham, a documentary filmmaker in San Francisco who deactivated her Facebook last week and shifted her attention to Instagram, where, she said, the conversation is less toxic.AdvertisementMs. Cunningham, who has freelanced for The New York Times, added that she had immediately begun missing Facebook as a research tool for her documentaries. “I don’t know if I can get out of the ecosystem,” she said.People looking to punish major tech companies by abstaining from their products have been bedeviled time and again by the difficulty in escaping them. After Google fired an engineer, James Damore, for criticizing the company’s diversity efforts last year, hundreds of people on social media called for a boycott of the company. But an analysis of nearly 7,000 tweets using the hashtag #BoycottGoogle since August showed that 26 percent of the tweets came from devices using Google’s Android software, according to Keyhole, a social-media research firm.One Twitter account named Milton Prescott tweeted on Aug. 8: “Google’s firing of James Damore proves his point completely. I will no longer be using Google for any services. #BoycottGoogle.” The tweet came from an Android device. A message to the account went unreturned.
            Google's firing of James Damore proves his point completely. I will no longer be using Google for any services.#BoycottGoogle Even Breitbart is running into the same dilemma. The conservative website is planning to host a panel on how tech platforms like Facebook suppress conservative voices — and it said it would livestream the discussion on Facebook. Breitbart didn’t respond to a request for comment.Marisa Richardson, a program manager at a life-sciences company, said she began boycotting Amazon recently after learning that it offered the NRA channel on its streaming-video service. So when she needed laundry detergent, she avoided the e-commerce site and instead braved the crowds and traffic — and spent a few dollars more — at a nearby Target.But a few days later she shopped at the Whole Foods near her home in Oakland, Calif. “I completely forgot that they’re owned by Amazon,” she said.After the shooting in Parkland in February, gun-control activists called for a boycott of certain Apple and Amazon services because they hosted the NRA channel.People used the hashtag #March1NRABoycott to spread the message on social media. An analysis of about 58,500 tweets with the hashtag showed that nearly half came from an iPhone or an iPad, according to Keyhole. Those included popular tweets using the #March1NRABoycott hashtag from the actress Alyssa Milano.
            TODAY#march1NRABoycott https://t.co/YtIMtAVL99 “Had I sent the same tweets from an Android phone, the same issue would apply. There is an NRATV app for Android phones,” Ms. Milano said through a spokeswoman. “We are only just beginning to understand how these companies have infiltrated not only our ideologies, but also our lives in the most in-depth way imaginable.”AdvertisementNearly a third of the 4,700 tweets using the #BoycottApple hashtag since August came from iPhones, according to Keyhole.“I do have an iPhone, but as a customer of Apple’s, am I not allowed to hold them accountable?” Mr. Knight, the activist who used an iPhone to call for an Apple boycott, said in an interview.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Eddy Cue, a senior executive at Apple, recently said that the NRA channel didn’t violate the company’s policies. Facebook, Google and Amazon didn’t respond to requests for comment.Many of those who recently abandoned their Facebook accounts are still in the company’s orbit, not only with Instagram but also with the company’s popular messaging apps WhatsApp and Messenger.When Cher recently deleted her Facebook page, she said on Twitter, “2day I did something VERY HARD 4 me.” But her Instagram account, with 768,000 followers, was still active.Likewise, Elon Musk, chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla, deleted the Facebook pages of both companies — but left their pages and his personal account active on Instagram. The photo-sharing platform, he said on Twitter, is fine “so long as it stays fairly independent.”
            Instagram’s probably ok imo, so long as it stays fairly independent. I don’t use FB & never have, so don’t think I’m some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow. Also, we don’t advertise or pay for endorsements, so … don’t care.        Stephen Cox, 39, a woodworker in Los Angeles, recently posted on Facebook that he was deactivating his account in favor of Instagram. When someone commented that the two sites were owned by the same company, he replied, “It’s a double-edged sword, but for me one edge is slightly more blunt than the other.”AdvertisementInstagram has proved an effective hedge for Facebook against people losing interest or trust in its main site. While the percentage of American adults who use Facebook has remained flat at 68 percent since 2016, according to a January survey of 2,002 American adults by the Pew Research Center, Instagram use rose to 35 percent from 28 percent over that period. Instagram is also more popular with younger people than older people, according to the survey.Rayven Bruzzese, 26, a sign-language student in Philadelphia, said she had been a frequent user of Facebook for years but deleted her account in March because she found it upsetting and a drain on her time. Now she spends her time on Instagram.While she acknowledged the irony of moving to another Facebook-owned service, she said her options were limited. Few of her friends are on Twitter, and many have stopped using Snapchat.“Where am I supposed to go?” she said. “I wish there was something else.”Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas.A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Intertwined Tech Services Blunt Boycotts.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:00 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The author of a provocative Facebook memo declaring that growth is justified even if it costs lives says he doesn't actually agree with the memo and wrote it to provoke debate.The 2016 internal memo, titled "The Ugly," was leaked to BuzzFeed this week. In it, Facebook executive Andrew Bosworth said "all the work we do in growth is justified," even if it costs people their lives because they are exposed to bullies or die in a terrorist attack coordinated through Facebook.Bosworth, who goes by "Boz," has been at Facebook since 2006 and serves as the company's vice president in charge of virtual- and augmented-reality efforts. Previously, he was vice president of ads and helped create Facebook features such as Messenger, its news feed and groups.Bosworth tweeted Thursday that the memo was one of the most unpopular things he's written internally, and "the ensuing debate helped shape our tools for the better."AdvertisementIn a statement to BuzzFeed that Facebook confirmed, CEO Mark Zuckerberg called Bosworth a "talented leader who says many provocative things," but added the memo was something "that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We've never believed the ends justify the means," Zuckerberg said in the statement. "We recognize that connecting people isn't enough by itself. We also need to work to bring people closer together. We changed our whole mission and company focus to reflect this last year."Facebook is grappling with an unprecedented crisis over allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm, obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. That followed a string of scandals, including revelations that Russia used its platform to meddle in U.S. elections.AdvertisementFacebook is facing new questions about its practice of collecting call and text histories from Android devices. The company has not provided details on why it needed this data or what it did with it, saying only that it was used to improve people's experience on Facebook. It's not clear how the data collection made Facebook users' experience better on Android devices when Facebook couldn't get the same data from iPhones.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 4:21 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  Facebook Inc said on Thursday it had begun "fact-checking" photos and videos to reduce the hoaxes and false news stories that have plagued the world's largest social media network.Facebook has for months faced an uproar among users whose complaints range from the spread of fake news to the use of the network to manipulate elections and the harvesting of 50 million people's Facebook data by the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Manipulated photos and videos are another growing problem on social media.The fact-checking began on Wednesday in France with assistance from the news organization AFP and will soon expand to more countries and partners, Tessa Lyons, a product manager at Facebook, said in a briefing with reporters.Lyons did not say what criteria Facebook or AFP would use to evaluate photos and videos, or how much a photo could be edited or doctored before it is ruled fake.AdvertisementThe project is part of "efforts to fight false news around elections," she said.A representative for AFP could not immediately be reached for comment.AdvertisementShares of Facebook closed up 4.4 percent at $159.79 on Thursday after a tumultuous two weeks. It remained down more than 13 percent from March 16, when Facebook disclosed the Cambridge Analytica data leak and sparked fears of stricter regulation.Facebook has tried other ways to stem the spread of fake news. It has used third-party fact-checkers to identify them, and then given such stories less prominence in the Facebook News Feed when people share links to them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In January, Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook would prioritize "trustworthy" news by using member surveys to identify high-quality outlets.Samidh Chakrabarti, another Facebook product manager, said in the briefing that the company had begun to "proactively" look for election-related disinformation rather than waiting for reports from users, helping it to move more quickly.Alex Stamos, Facebook's chief security officer, said in the briefing that the company was concerned not only about false facts but also other kinds of fakery.He said Facebook wanted to reduce "fake audiences," which he described as using "tricks" to artificially expand the perception of support for a particular message, as well as "false narratives," such as headlines and language that "exploit disagreements."(Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Richard Chang)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:03 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Facebook says it is making progress weeding out fake accounts and fake news on its service as part of its efforts to prevent election interference ahead of the U.S. midterms.Samidh Chakrabarti, a product manager, said in a conference call Thursday that Facebook is using machine learning to block fake accounts before they spread misinformation, rather than wait for reports from users. Suspicious accounts are then reviewed by humans — similar to ways Facebook monitors other malicious content.Facebook is also expanding its fact-checking efforts beyond the written word to include photos and videos. And it plans to launch a public archive of elections-related ads by the summer that will include details such as how much money was spent on each of them and the demographics of their targeted audience.Guy Rosen, Facebook's vice president of product management, said while these steps are designed to prevent the kind of activity Russian troll accounts took to sow discord in past elections, the company is also looking ahead to prevent new kinds of threats. He didn't provide details on what those might be.AdvertisementFacebook — along with Twitter and other tech companies — were found to have been played by Russian propagandists seeking to influence elections in a February indictment by U.S. special counsel Robert Mueller. The indictment confirmed earlier findings from congressional investigations that Russian agents manipulated social media to promote social division by mimicking grassroots political activity. It also underscores that the problem wasn't just "bots," or automated social-media accounts, but human conspirators as well.Facebook was criticized for responding slowly to evidence of foreign meddling on its service ahead of the 2016 U.S. elections.Advertisement"None of us can turn back the clock, but we are all responsible for making sure the same kind of attack on democracy does not happen again," Rosen said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:23 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Shares of Acxiom Corp plunged as much as 34 percent on Thursday, after Facebook Inc said it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network.The stock has now lost nearly half of its market value since Facebook's comments on Wednesday that added to fears of increased scrutiny around how public data is handled and shared.Facebook is under pressure to improve how it manages data after disclosing that information on about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.The social network has for years given advertisers the option of targeting their ads based on data collected by companies such as Acxiom. Facebook's website lists nine third-party data providers that it has worked with, including Acxiom, Experian PLC, Oracle Data Cloud, TransUnion and WPP PLC.AdvertisementArkansas-based Acxiom, which earns over $800 million a year selling consumer profiles to the world's largest companies, said late on Wednesday it did not expect this change to impact its revenue or earnings for the year ending in March.AdvertisementHowever, for fiscal year 2019, Acxiom expects total revenue and profitability to be hurt by as much as $25 million."The immediate impact was small. Now the question is how far does Facebook react to its issues," First Analysis analyst Larry Berlin said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."A lot of what (Acxiom) is doing is probably not wrong and probably not at the core of the problem that Facebook has. Targeting consumers using data is sometimes very clean and sometimes it isn't."Even with little raw data, third-party data providers like  Acxiom attempt to build detailed pictures of individuals' finances, relationships, personal interests and purchasing tastes.These profiles power targeted advertising across the internet, and can also be used to determine what political issues people are interested in and how they might vote."I welcome Facebook's announcement that it will be shutting down its partner category service, using third party data to inform targeted advertising," said Britain's Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham in a statement on Thursday.WPP, Experian, TransUnion and Cisco did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Shares of Acxiom were down 32 percent at $19 by midday. The stock touch its lowest in more than 2 years in early trading.TransUnion fell nearly 1 percent, while WPP was down marginally.(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 3:15 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  India's government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian voters and users has been compromised by U.K.-based Cambridge Analytica or any other downstream entity.A similar notice was dispatched to Cambridge Analytica last week following media reports that it had misused data to profile Indians and influence their elections. The government set a Saturday deadline for Cambridge Analytica and April 7 for Facebook to respond to its inquiry.Facebook is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that the data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections.India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said in a statement late Wednesday that Facebook has its largest footprint in India in terms of its user base and sought to know "what proactive measures it is taking to ensure the safety, security and privacy of such large user data and to prevent its misuse by any third party."AdvertisementThe governing Bharatiya Janata Party and the main opposition Congress Party have accused each other of utilizing the services of the British company, but denied any link with it. Cambridge Analytica's allegedly unauthorized harvesting of Facebook data and a series of leaks linked to India's biometric database has refocused public attention on digital privacy in the country.Digital law experts say Indian regulations offered particularly weak safeguards against data breach.The Indian government's notice to Facebook sought to know "whether Facebook or its related or downstream agencies utilizing Facebook's data have previously been engaged by any entities to manipulate the Indian electoral process."Advertisement"If any such downstream entity misused data from Facebook, what is the protection available to the data subject?" it asked.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:38 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  Britain's Information Commissioner welcomed Facebook's decision to end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network.Facebook made the move after a scandal over how it handles personal information knocked billions of dollars off of its share price."I welcome Facebook's announcement that it will be shutting down its partner category service, using third party data to inform targeted advertising," said Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham in a statement on Thursday."I have been examining this service in the context of my wider investigation into the use of personal data for political purposes and had raised it with Facebook as a significant area of concern," she added.(Reporting by Alistair Smout and Kate Holton; editing by Stephen Addison)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:02 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - In the wake of the scandal sparked by Facebook's handling of 50 million users' data, Reuters polled Americans about how they are protecting their privacy online.Here are some of the poll's key findings:NO PROFILE MAKEOVERThe poll found that many Americans have not taken steps to protect their information.** 86 percent said they have not changed their login credentials on Facebook, Twitter or other social media platforms.** 78 percent have not switched to "private mode" on their browser.** 96 percent have not turned to more secure, encrypted apps like Signal and WhatsApp.AdvertisementGRAPHIC: https://tmsnrt.rs/2GBecwYTAPE IT UPAbout 17 percent of adults, or about 1 in 6, said they protect their identity by placing tape over the camera on their computer or device.AdvertisementFACEBOOK STILL GETS LIKESFacebook remains the most popular social media network in the United States by far. More than half of adults said they access the site continuously throughout the day. Other platforms like Instagram and Snapchat do not come close.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.PRIVACY CONCERNS LOWThe Reuters/Ipsos poll asked Americans who do not use Facebook regularly why not?Within that group, 30 percent said they do not find it that interesting or useful, 16 percent said they are concerned about their privacy and do not want to share personal information with strangers. Only 4 percent said they are afraid their account will get hacked.GRAPHIC: https://tmsnrt.rs/2ur95KSThe poll of 2,237 U.S. adults was conducted between March 21-23 and has a credibility interval, a measure of accuracy, of 2 percentage points.(Reporting by Maria Caspani; Editing by Chris Kahn and Bill Trott)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 4:11 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network, a step that follows a scandal over how Facebook handles personal information.The world's largest social media company is under pressure to improve its handling of data after disclosing that information about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Facebook adjusted the privacy settings on its service on Wednesday, giving users control over their personal information in fewer taps.Facebook has for years given advertisers the option of targeting their ads based on data collected by companies such as Acxiom Corp and Experian PLC.AdvertisementThe tool has been widely used among certain categories of advertisers - such as automakers, luxury goods producers and consumer packaged goods companies - who do not sell directly to consumers and have relatively little information about who their customers are, according to Facebook.Advertisement"While this is common industry practice, we believe this step, winding down over the next six months, will help improve people's privacy on Facebook," Graham Mudd, a Facebook product marketing director, said in a statement.Shares in Acxiom traded down more than 10 percent to $25 after Facebook's announcement after the bell. Shares in other data brokers were largely unchanged.Acxiom said late on Wednesday it did not expect this change to impact its revenue or earnings for the year ending in March.     The company currently expects revenue in the range of $910 million to $915 million in the 2018 fiscal year.However, for the 2019 fiscal year, Acxiom expects total revenue and profitability to be negatively impacted by as much as $25 million.Facebook declined to comment on how the change could affect its ad revenue.Advertisers would still be able to use third-party data services to measure how well their ads performed by examining purchasing data, Facebook said.Facebook's website lists nine third-party data providers that it has worked with, including Acxiom, Experian, Oracle Data Cloud, TransUnion and WPP PLC.Other companies, besides Acxiom, were not available for comment.Facebook on Wednesday also put all its privacy settings on one page and made it easier to stop third-party apps from using personal information. Privacy settings had previously been spread over at least 20 screens, Facebook said.AdvertisementFacebook said in a blog post it had been working on the updates for some time but sped things up to appease users' anger over how the company uses data and as lawmakers around the globe call for regulation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook's shares closed up 0.5 percent at $153.03 on Wednesday. They are still down more than 17 percent since March 16, when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled in 2014 via a third-party app to Cambridge Analytica, which was later hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.The data leak has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers, who are Facebook's lifeblood, and lead to tougher regulation.SCRUTINY FROM LAWMAKERSFacebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has repeatedly apologized for the mistakes the company made and has promised to crack down on abuse of the Facebook platform and restrict developers' access to user information.There is a new Facebook page - called Access Your Information - where users can see what they have shared and manage it."The biggest difference is ease of access in settings, which fulfills Mark Zuckerberg's promise to make the privacy process and permissions more transparent to users," Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter said.It was uncertain whether the changes will satisfy lawmakers.They were announced ahead of a stringent European Union data law which comes into force in May. It requires companies to give people a "right to portability" - to take their data with them - and imposes fines of up to 4 percent of global revenue for companies breaking the law.Lawmakers in the United States and Britain are still clamoring for Zuckerberg himself to explain how users' data ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.He plans to testify before Congress, a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday. Facebook has said it has received invitations to testify and that it is talking to legislators.AdvertisementZuckerberg and the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc have been invited to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee have also asked Zuckerberg to appear at a hearing.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into Facebook, and attorneys representing 37 states are also pressing Zuckerberg to explain what happened.(Reporting by David Ingram and Julia Fioretti; Additional reporting by Laharee Chatterjee, Arjun Panchadar and Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru; Editing by James Dalgleish and Cynthia Osterman)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 6:00 A.M. E.D.T.
KABUL, Afghanistan —  With three children under the age of five and a husband who could neither read nor write, 25-year-old Jahantap Ahmadi dreamed of going to college. Her high school degree was enough to become a teacher at the only elementary school in her village in central Afghanistan __ in an open field — but she wanted more.On March 15, cheered on by her husband, Jahantap set out for the Daikundi provincial capital of Nili to take the university entrance exam. She walked until her feet were blistered and bruised and then sat for 10 hours with her infant daughter, Khezran, cradled on her lap in a rickety bus over rugged rocky roads. Once in Nili, she took the exam and scored a respectable 152 out of a possible 200.But it was a picture of Jahantap posted on Facebook, sitting cross-legged on the classroom floor, her 2-month-old baby asleep on her lap as she took the exam, that made the dream of going to college come true. A teacher in Nili who was moved by Jahantap's determination to get an education posted pictures on Facebook. In Afghanistan, where women still struggle for even the most basic of rights, it went viral."My brother who was working in Kabul called me and said 'I saw your picture in Facebook,'" she said in an interview in Kabul where she is now enrolled at a private university. "I wanted to get my education, so I could help my village, change my village. I want to help my society. But first I wanted it for my children, so one day they could be educated."AdvertisementNearly 17 years after the overthrow of the Taliban government, which outlawed women's education, an estimated 6 million children are in school in Afghanistan and a third of them are girls. However, most girls don't study beyond elementary school, and of the 3.5 million Afghan children who have never gone to school, 75 percent are girls, according to the 2017 annual report of the United Nations Children's Fund, which was released in February.AdvertisementZahra Yagana, who runs a small non-governmental organization that provides awareness of the environment and the value of education, said the picture of Jahantap on the floor, while other students sat at desks, inspired her to get Jahantap to Kabul and into a university."Life is still very difficult for women in Afghanistan. We need the international community to stay for 50 or 100 years to change things here for women," said Yagana."When I saw the picture of Jahantap on Facebook, I was so impressed," she said. "Right away the next day I wrote a story about her, but I thought we have to do something for her, help her get her education. She inspired me."Yagana went to the government and recruited Farkhunda Zahra Naderi, a senior adviser to President Ashraf Ghani, as well as Sarwar Danish, a vice president. Naderi is paying Jahantap's university tuition and Danish will pay the rent on the family's home in Kabul."They said she is a symbol for women and education," said Yagana.In a country that remains deeply conservative and patriarchal, Jahantap's husband, Musa Mohammadi, would seem an anomaly."I am so proud of my wife," said Mohammadi, who never attended school and is illiterate."That's not the life I want for my children," he said. "I see a sign on the road and I can't read it. I go to the pharmacy to get medicine, but I can't read the name of the pills. That's not right. It is very difficult for me."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Before taking her entrance exams in March, Mohammadi said his wife taught children in the open field beneath the blistering summer sun. "I saw how many people wanted education. They all brought their children for her to teach."His uncle, Mohammad Reza Hesani, said when Jahantap married Mohammadi she bought pens and books for the children in her new husband's family, most of whom had never been to school.Advertisement"Jahantap has given light to the women in our village," said Hesani. "We respect her. My wife is so interested now in going to school after she saw Jahantap."Still, there's a lingering fear that any peace deal with the Taliban would set back the fragile gains made over the last 17 years. Already, women's rights groups have assailed Ghani's government for failing to pass legislation to protect women and allowing clerics to rail against rights for women, stalling the little progress made thus far.Masuda Karokhi, a member of parliament, told The Associated Press she is "tired and disappointed" that each time legislators press for laws to advance the rights of women, including a law to eliminate violence against women, conservative members intervene to delay it. She said the government panders to those members at the expense of women's rights.A 2017 Human Rights Watch report on Afghanistan said attempts to reform family law, including divorce provisions, have stalled.At a conference on violence against women, Karokhi said one conservative member of parliament argued that Islamic law allowed for violence against women."Why is it that if a woman laughs, these conservative men say there is something in Shariah (Islamic law) that says it is wrong, but men can do anything and there is nothing in Shariah against them," Karokhi said. "It's so disappointing and frustrating, the attitudes of men in Afghanistan."____Associated Press writer Amir Shah contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:Re “Welcome to Zucktown” (Sunday Business, March 25):There are so many anxiety-producing consequences of what the article describes — the hyper-production identity of the Facebook and Google worker; the disregard for a community that should accommodate the service workers supporting the well-paid elite; the disdain for existing communities — but I was shocked as well by the fact that, except for naming Frank Gehry as the designer of the Facebook campus, the word “architect” was nowhere to be found.The designing of communities and the knowledge to avoid those stated pitfalls are our purview!I believe that the lack of architectural presence in the article is not an oversight by the reporter, but rather an oversight by the tech community and our own profession for a willingness to perpetuate the myth that all we care about is formal, egocentric virtuosity.How sad that the social vision that is at the heart of our discipline is so unrecognized.PEGGY DEAMER, NEW HAVENThe writer is a professor at the Yale School of Architecture.AdvertisementBy NATHANIEL POPPERAPRIL 1, 2018
From Bitcoin to Litecoin to Ethereum, we explain how cryptocurrency transactions work.SAN FRANCISCO — Worried about someone hacking the next election? Bothered by the way Facebook and Equifax coughed up your personal information?The technology industry has an answer called the blockchain — even for the problems the industry helped to create.The first blockchain was created in 2009 as a new kind of database for the virtual currency Bitcoin, where all transactions could be stored without any banks or governments involved.Now, countless entrepreneurs, companies and governments are looking to use similar databases — often independent of Bitcoin — to solve some of the most intractable issues facing society.Advertisement“People feel the need to move away from something like Facebook and toward something that allows them to have ownership of their own data,” said Ryan Shea, a co-founder of Blockstack, a New York company working with blockchain technology.AdvertisementThe creator of the World Wide Web, Tim Berners-Lee, has said the blockchain could help reduce the big internet companies’ influence and return the web to his original vision. But he has also warned that it could come with some of the same problems as the web.Blockchain allows information to be stored and exchanged by a network of computers without any central authority. In theory, this egalitarian arrangement also makes it harder for data to be altered or hacked.Investors, for one, see potential. While the price of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies have plummeted this year, investment in other blockchain projects has remained strong. In the first three months of 2018, venture capitalists put half a billion dollars into 75 blockchain projects, more than double what they raised in the last quarter of 2017, according to data from Pitchbook.Most of the projects have not gotten beyond pilot testing, and many are aimed at transforming mundane corporate tasks like financial trading and accounting. But some experiments promise to transform fundamental things, like the way we vote and the way we interact online.“There is just so much it can do,” said Bradley Tusk, a former campaign manager for Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, who has recently thrown his weight behind several blockchain projects. “I love the fact that you can transmit data, information and choices in a way that is really hard to hack — really hard to disrupt and that can be really efficient.”Mr. Tusk, the founder of Tusk Strategies, is an investor in some large virtual currency companies. He has also supported efforts aimed at getting governments to move voting online to blockchain-based systems. Mr. Tusk argues that blockchains could make reliable online voting possible because the votes could be recorded in a tamper-proof way.“Everything is moving toward people saying, ‘I want all the benefits of the internet, but I want to protect my privacy and my security,’” he said. “The only thing I know that can reconcile those things is the blockchain.”AdvertisementBlockchains assemble data into so-called blocks that are chained together using complicated math. Since each block is built off the last one and includes information like time stamps, any attempt to go back and alter existing data would be highly complicated. In the original Bitcoin blockchain, the data in the blocks is information about Bitcoin wallets and transactions. The blocks of data in the Bitcoin blockchain — and most of its imitators — are kept by a peer-to-peer computer network.The novel structure allows people to set up online accounts that can securely hold valuable personal information without having to trust a single entity that can hoard, abuse or lose control of the data, as happened with Facebook and the consumer credit reporting agency Equifax.A range of corporations and governments are trying to apply the blockchain model — for projects from the prosaic to the radical. Various departments of the United Nations now have blockchain experiments looking to tackle climate change, the delivery of humanitarian aid and the identity challenges faced by stateless people. Coca-Cola and the State Department recently announced a project to register foreign employees on a blockchain in an attempt to eliminate forced labor.These experiments have drawn skepticism from Bitcoin aficionados, who say blockchains are being applied to problems that could be more easily solved with old-fashioned databases.Other critics say the rapid pace of blockchain development could lead to the same problem facing the broader tech industry: a willingness to disrupt and overthrow old systems before the replacement has been thoroughly tested.“The blockchain industry is ready and waiting to say, ‘Yes, we are the solution,’ and they have every incentive to do so,” said Angela Walch, a research fellow at the Center for Blockchain Technologies at University College London. “But somebody needs to ask the question: ‘Is it actually better? Is it measurably better?’”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many blockchain projects opened themselves to criticism and regulatory scrutiny by raising money through so-called initial coin offerings last year. These fund-raising campaigns often brought in tens of millions of dollars in minutes with little regulatory oversight.But new blockchain efforts continue apace, motivated in no small part by concerns about the emergence of internet giants like Facebook and YouTube.Most of the biggest internet companies make their money from collecting personal information and using it to sell targeted advertisements. This kind of massive data collection makes them vulnerable to hackers and outsiders who want to leverage the data — as was evident when Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to 50 million Facebook profiles. And start-ups are using the blockchain in an attempt to pry control of all that data out of their hands.AdvertisementBlockstack has built a way to record the basic details about your identity on a blockchain database and then use that identity to set up accounts with other online projects that are built on top of it.The animating force behind the project is that users — rather than Blockstack or any other company — would end up in control of all the data they generate with any online service.Blockstack is one of several blockchain-based projects hoping to create a new generation of online services that don’t rely on having unfettered access to our personal information.The idea has gained enough steam that in the days after news of Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica broke, Twitter was filled with people calling for blockchain-based alternatives.
            As Facebook is collapsing we need to replace it with a blockchain based, decentralized platform! https://t.co/lgFGh3bHLi “As Facebook is collapsing we need to replace it with a blockchain based, decentralized platform!” one user, @GerdMoeBehrens, wrote.
            50 m Facebook profiles harvested for in major data breach | News | The Guardian #blockchain WE NEED U NOW!!! https://t.co/P0twwKsu2g “#blockchain WE NEED U NOW!!!” wrote another, @andymartin46.But Mr. Berners-Lee has warned that the development of the blockchain could come with unintended consequences, like more activity from criminals operating outside the oversight of governments.Even blockchain advocates say the hype has conditioned people to think that good answers are close at hand, when it could take five or 10 years for the technology to properly develop.In fact, most blockchain projects are still plagued by concerns about privacy. For example, the widely used Bitcoin blockchain allows certain data — details of the transactions between users — to be seen by anyone, even if other data — the users’ identities — remains obscured. Voting start-ups have solved this by encrypting the data before putting it on a blockchain, but there are questions about whether this will solve other privacy concerns.Blockchain-based accounts also rely on users keeping their own passwords or private keys, which people are famously bad at doing. With Bitcoin, when people lose their private key they lose access to the money in their account — if someone lost the private key to a blockchain-based online account, they could lose access to their identity.Advertisement“We’re not saying that tomorrow you can flip the switch and a blockchain is going to solve these problems,” said Michael Casey, a co-author of “The Truth Machine,” a new book on the blockchain. “What’s important is how it opens the door to a new way of thinking about the problems we face.”Follow Nathaniel Popper on Twitter: @nathanielpopper.A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tech’s Answer For Security: Blockchain.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MATTHEW HAAGMARCH 29, 2018
Eric Holder, the United States attorney general under President Barack Obama, said Facebook should be viewed as a communication company and be regulated.Eric H. Holder Jr., the United States attorney general for six years under President Barack Obama, stepped away from public service in 2015 but has since emerged as a bulwark against the Trump administration, taking a leading role in challenging the president’s policies in court and trying to chip away at the Republicans’ grip on state governments. Mr. Holder discussed his efforts to fight Republican gerrymandering, whether Facebook should be regulated and the potential legacy of Mr. Trump’s presidency in a wide-ranging TimesTalks conversation with the reporter Alexander Burns on Wednesday night in New York.Here are the takeaways.After the Trump administration announced this week that it would add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census, Mr. Holder said he planned to sue to block the change on behalf of the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, which he chairs. The census aims to count everyone who resides in the country, whether they are citizens or not, and Mr. Holder echoed the concerns expressed by several states this week that the citizenship question could reduce the responses from noncitizens and even legal immigrants.He said his lawsuit would be aided by Mr. Trump’s Twitter utterances.“This is one of those incidences where I think the president’s tweets and public statements will become relevant,” Mr. Holder, 67, said. “To show the true intent — that it is not as benign as they would make it out to be. Through the words of Donald Trump and through the tweets of Donald Trump, you’ll see what the true intention was of the administration.”Normally, he noted, it would be difficult to argue in court that the government pushed a policy with a malicious intent. But Mr. Trump’s tweets provide plenty of material for lawsuits, Mr. Holder said.Advertisement“It is certainly the gift that keeps on giving,” he said.Mr. Holder conceded that he prefers Twitter to Facebook but occasionally catches a glimpse of Facebook when his wife signs on. But he said he had been following the recent news that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users.AdvertisementThat security breach, along with the social network’s role in spreading Russian-backed propaganda during the presidential election, bolstered an argument for regulating Facebook, Mr. Holder said.“There needs to be a certain degree of freedom,” he said. “We don’t want to stifle the creativity that comes from those platforms.”But he added: “There is a way in which we have to think of these platforms as communication companies. What then does that mean in terms of how they should be regulated?”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Holder, who served as the attorney general from February 2009 to April 2015, said he was stunned by the support Mr. Trump still enjoyed in some circles after a pornographic-film star and a former Playboy model claimed they had sexual relationships with him.“I find it hard to believe the conversations that we have about the conduct of this president. They are mind-blowing,” he said. “I think to myself, You gave my guy grief because he wore a tan suit.”Mr. Holder said that if the same allegations of extramarital affairs had been made against Mr. Obama or President George W. Bush, their presidencies would have been over. “I just don’t understand how this has not had the reaction generated that would have been generated by any other president,” he said.Mr. Trump has nominated Mike Pompeo, the director of the C.I.A., to be the next secretary of state and named a veteran of the spy agency, Gina Haspel, as the next director. Both nominations require Senate confirmation, and Ms. Haspel will certainly face questions about her work as a clandestine officer in the agency’s counterterrorism operations. She oversaw a secret prison in Thailand involved in the rendition, detention and interrogation of detainees.AdvertisementIn 2012, Mr. Holder effectively closed that dark chapter in the C.I.A.’s history, announcing that a three-year Justice Department investigation into brutal interrogations was ending without a prosecution. The decision outraged some liberals.On Wednesday night, Mr. Holder said that Ms. Haspel would have to answer tough questions — and that the public deserved to know more about the country’s enhanced interrogation program. He said that parts of the Justice Department report and a separate Senate investigation into the program should be declassified.“The American people need to know exactly what happened during that time period,” he said.Responding to recent calls for a repeal of the Second Amendment, Mr. Holder said such an effort was impracticable but offered four suggestions to address what he called a “gun violence epidemic in the United States.” His remarks came days after John Paul Stevens, a retired associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, wrote an Op-Ed in The Times advocating repeal.Assault weapons should be banned, as well as higher-capacity magazines, Mr. Holder said. Background checks should be expanded for prospective gun buyers, and the government should reinstate the funding of studies on gun violence by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.“Compare us to any other nation, and we are just off the charts when it comes to mass shootings and the number of people killed through the use of firearms,” Mr. Holder said. “We have to do something about it.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byHere are some of our favorite recent pieces.Compiled by Kathleen O’BrienWhat Facebook is selling to political campaigns is the right to bypass longstanding rules in order to act with impunity, writes Noam Cohen in an Op-Ed. Facebook offered the Trump campaign and its supporters cheap, direct access to African-American voters — and along with that the chance to mislead and intimidate.No one is really talking about school segregation anymore, even though it endures throughout the United States. That’s a shame because an abundance of research shows that integration is still one of the most effective tools that we have for achieving racial equity. Two experts offer perspective on why it continues and what we should do to combat it.The legacy of the Vietnam War still shapes America, even if most of us are too young to remember it. The Opinion section has been shining light on the conflict and its repercussions in a special series. Read the final installment, by a veteran writing about his scarred generation.In an essay last weekend, David Reich, a geneticist at Harvard, argued that science is changing how we think about “race” and urged a candid discussion of the findings. Many readers left comments, some worrying that the results could be misinterpreted or nefariously applied. Read his responses to some of the comments.This Op-Ed is by a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School senior who once tutored the young man who committed a mass murder at her Florida school. She notes: “It is not the obligation of children to befriend classmates who have demonstrated aggressive, unpredictable or violent tendencies.” Her compelling essay was our most-read piece of the week.The Pentagon doesn’t want it. The military doesn’t need it. Only bigotry explains it. Even if trans issues don’t top the list of things you’re worried about, you should be appalled by the latest episode of kick-the-soldier, notes Jennifer Finney Boylan in a sharp response to President Trump’s latest effort to ban transgender soldiers from the military. In the last three decades, 280 million Chinese people have left their villages for the booming cities in search of work, making up the greatest wave of migration in human history. Millions of these migrants leave their children behind, and several sensational stories have brought attention to the plight of these children growing up without their parents nearby. When you have a child who’s a junior in high school, everywhere you go, people want to talk about one thing: college. Must this stressful process overshadow a child’s last years at home?Get lost in a temperate rain forest via this short virtual reality documentary. It is a feast for your senses, providing an immersive experience narrated by an acoustic ecologist looking for quiet in an ever-noisier world.So, we ran a perfectly fine Op-Ed by a researcher who studies dogs. She argues that the way we depict dogs in movies and social media often anthropomorphizes them and is degrading to the species, and if you care about dogs, it’s worth a read. We will note that it seems like many folks on Twitter do not want to give up on dog GIFs, and they let us know in proper style.Have a great spring weekend! AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:03 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  As Mark Zuckerberg prepares to testify before Congress over Facebook's privacy fiasco, public-relations experts who have prepped CEOs before have plenty of advice on handling the hot seat.Among them: Appear sympathetic and be ready for a beating. Take responsibility. Don't feign ignorance. And keep in mind that this is more political theater than public policy. The so-called "optics" —how things look— are as important as what you say.The stakes are high: CEOs testifying in Washington have lost jobs, faced perjury investigations and otherwise endured public humiliation. It's not comfortable for anyone in a position of power to essentially kowtow to Congress in a televised setting."It's an intense, grinding experience, draining psychologically and physically," said Ronn Torossian, founder and CEO of the PR agency 5WPR.AdvertisementAs with others who have coached CEOs in the past, he couldn't name former clients because of confidentiality agreements. Torossian said appearing before Congress is "a very humbling experience for powerful people." But Zuckerberg can learn from those who have gone before him.Advertisement___PREPARE, PREPARE, PREPAREZuckerberg should spend days, if not weeks, familiarizing himself with the layout of the hearing room and with specific members of Congress, including the toughest questions they are likely to ask. The Facebook CEO has to appear willing to answer questions.When then-BP chief Tony Hayward testified before Congress about the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010, he denied involvement or knowledge of the problem in many cases. That's a classic response designed to avoid legal trouble, but it didn't make him sympathetic to viewers. Hayward lost his job about a month later."He was clearly very well trained from lawyers, but it didn't rest well with the American public," said Richard Levick, founder and CEO of public-relations firm Levick. He said Zuckerberg needs advice from lobbyists and communications professionals, too.Helio Fred Garcia, who as president of Logos Consulting Group has prepped unnamed banking, pharmaceutical and other executives, said a CEO client of his went through a mock hearing in which someone said very harsh things to rattle him. He was shown video of his expression to make sure he wouldn't replicate it in front of the Senate. The verdict? "He kept his job, so it went fine," Garcia said.___ARRIVE MODESTLYOne of the most infamous missteps happened before the CEOs even got in the door. In 2008, CEOs of the three big automakers flew private jets to Washington to ask Congress for federal bailout money. A public relations fiasco ensued.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.When the executives went back to Capitol Hill two weeks later for a second round of hearings, they traveled by car.___TAKE YOUR LUMPSCEOs may be used to getting their own way, but they aren't in control during hearings. Garcia said that can cause them "a great deal of distress."Zuckerberg has to understand he's a target and swallow his pride. His job isn't to try to persuade the senators of anything, but to let senators express their anger.Advertisement"This isn't an educational forum," Garcia said. "It's a highly ritualized piece of theater."___DON'T FEIGN IGNORANCEWhen Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf appeared before the Senate Banking Committee in 2016 on the bank's creation of unauthorized accounts, he feigned ignorance about some details. He was roasted by senators for not acknowledging the extent of the problem and his responsibility of it. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and other senators called for his firing; he stepped down weeks later.It's crucial to take responsibility and come across as straightforward, said John Hellerman, founder of PR firm Hellerman Communications.At the same time, Zuckerberg can't get too bogged down in technical explanations, Garcia said. A hearing puts the spotlight on leadership and accountability, not technical details. Garcia said Zuckerberg has to "speak in leadership terms: 'This was a massive failure and I apologize.'"___SPIN IT FORWARDZuckerberg isn't likely to lose his job over this, but a bad congressional appearance can have other consequences — mainly, the controversy staying in the news.So his goal will be to acknowledge anger and try to move on. He has to accept that regulation is likely, "so this is his chance to help shape and guide what that regulation might look like," Hellerman said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byRACE STORIESThe most compelling photographs of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. were neither idealized nor simplistic, but endeavored to portray his complexity and humanity.By Maurice BergerThe images of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivering his “I Have a Dream” speech before a spellbound crowd on the National Mall in August 1963 are etched into history — and the American consciousness — as the defining moment in the struggle for civil rights.But that reading distorts the movement’s complex history, reinforcing the perception of Dr. King as an almost divine leader who was solely responsible for healing the nation’s troubled race relations. Historical images frame our understanding of history, and photographs defined Dr. King in the public imagination, for better or worse. His enemies manipulated photos or gave false captions to discredit him, from accusing him of communist ties to purporting that he encouraged violence during peaceful demonstrations. African-American newspapers and magazines routinely reported on the details of his life and activism through pictures, years before mainstream publications. And those mass media outlets — though at first circumspect and, in Dr. King’s final years, increasingly critical as he turned his attention to poverty, war and racism outside the South — nevertheless produced a visual narrative that helped transform a regional movement into a national one. If the news media sometimes vilified Dr. King, it also contributed to the mythic view of him as the charismatic leader “who single-handedly directed the course of the civil rights movement through the force of his oratory,” as the historian Clayborne Carson wrote of his distorted legacy. In that, photos became as powerful as words as Dr. King was transformed from a human being into a visual symbol of courage, fortitude, or benevolence: The stoic cleric posing for a mug shot after being arrested during the Montgomery bus boycott, or the consummate family man to whom white Americans could better relate.The idealization of Dr. King in his lifetime was set against a backdrop of white distrust and anxiety. While support for him remained high among black Americans, he was largely unpopular with white Americans. In a 1963 survey by the Gallup Organization that gauged national sentiment of public figures, only the Soviet leader, Nikita S. Khrushchev, was more disliked. By 1966, nearly two-thirds of Americans held an unfavorable opinion of Dr. King. If he was for many white people the standard-bearer of a black America that was otherwise unknown to them, the news media’s mythic imagery rendered Dr. King enigmatic. He had become, in contexts both positive and negative, the pre-eminent but two-dimensional icon of a political struggle that involved thousands of organizers, activists and sympathizers. By contrast, the most compelling photographs of him were neither idealized nor simplistic, but endeavored to portray his complexity and humanity.James Karales’s candid picture of Dr. King at the kitchen table, talking with his young daughter Yolanda, for example, reminds us that the lives of black Americans, no matter how famous, were inevitably fraught. Disappointment registering on his face, he was explaining to the child, for the first time, the perils of segregation and why she could not visit a restricted amusement park. A photograph of the civil rights leader in intense conversation with President Lyndon B. Johnson affirmed that he was not simply an activist clergyman, but also a tough negotiator adept at politics.What is perhaps most extraordinary about Dr. King and photography is not how the medium defined him, but how skillfully he used it to define the story of civil rights. He was a visual tactician who, along with his advisers, understood the power of the camera to expose the brutality and injustice of segregation. The historic “Children’s Crusade” in Birmingham, Ala., in May 1963, for example, was largely organized for the camera. Dr. King and his strategists recognized the need for pictures that would demonstrate the depravity of Jim Crow segregation to a skeptical public. Anticipating a fierce response from Bull Connor, the city’s segregationist commissioner of public safety, and aware of the media’s hunger for provocative images, they planned a nonviolent demonstration of more than a thousand schoolchildren. The pictures that came out of Birmingham — youngsters attacked by police dogs or knocked to the ground by fire hoses — were devastating. Seen around the world, these images broke through skepticism and complacency, providing unassailable evidence of the evil of segregation and how it imperiled democracy. A year later, Congress passed the landmark Civil Rights Act, legislation partly spurred by the shocking photographs and television news footage from Birmingham. But it was another widely-seen photograph, taken 50 years ago next week, that most dramatically challenged the myth of Dr. King: that of him lying mortally wounded on a balcony at the Lorraine Hotel in Memphis. Rather than an icon of the heavenly orator, imprisoned martyr, or revered prophet, the stark image transformed the civil rights leader into a human being destroyed by racial hatred. If photographs of Dr. King in life have served as a kind of Rorschach test — teasing out our capacity for acceptance, identification, or prejudice — that image of him in death is a sobering reminder of the extent to which myths are built on fantasy and projection, erasing the individuality of the people they enshrine.“I always saw Martin Luther King Jr. as this incredible spiritual leader, who spoke in a way that inspired people in emotional tones,” said the photographer Steve Schapiro of his famous subject. “What you don’t realize is that people are human at the same time. You can be a leader and still have your own particular worries.” Race Stories is a continuing exploration of the relationship between race and photographic depictions of race by Maurice Berger. He is a research professor and chief curator at the Center for Art, Design and Visual Culture at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 4:38 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Stocks steadied on Thursday, after a woeful week for major technology companies, even as global equities careened towards their first quarterly drop in two years.Shares tracked by the 47-country MSCI index glided 0.86 percent higher, with Facebook Inc, Apple Inc and Google parent Alphabet Inc retaking the market's leadership mantle.Despite equities' gains, safe-haven bonds also advanced in price.The volatile give-and-take during the week and quarter would seem to set the table for tense months ahead as buy-the-dip bulls look for corporate earnings to validate the market's current levels and short-selling bears work to expose investors' complacency.Yet David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co's funds division, said he is optimistic that markets have clarified the effects of a large U.S. tax cut and the prospect for higher interest rates, factors he says challenged markets during the first quarter.Advertisement"It's not that the uncertainties have gone away on higher rates or lower taxes, but I think we've grown accustomed to them, and that should lay a foundation for investors to put more money to work," he said.AdvertisementEconomic data on Thursday showed U.S. consumer spending rising only marginally, but the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits dropped to a more than 45-year low last week. Monthly inflation readings moderated.Those statistics helped keep downward price swings at bay on Thursday after a turbulent start to 2018 in financial markets that is set to end one of the longest quarterly bull runs and included the biggest-ever rise in Wall Street's "fear gauge," the CBOE Volatility Index.A "melt-up" that sent the MSCI's "all-country" world share index up more than 7 percent in January suddenly melted away as tensions over global trade escalated, turmoil deepened in the White House and market-leading technology firms wobbled on fears of regulation and other issues. The index is down more than 1 percent in price terms this year.Now, the Dow, S&P 500, FTSE, Nikkei and scores of other major indexes are all also down for the year. And there was little place to hide, with U.S. bond returns also in the red for the quarter.On Thursday, by contrast, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 254.69 points, or 1.07 percent, to 24,103.11, the S&P 500 gained 35.87 points, or 1.38 percent, to 2,640.87 and the Nasdaq Composite added 114.22 points, or 1.64 percent, to 7,063.45.In Asia, Japan's Nikkei rose 0.6 percent, while Shanghai closed up 1.2 percent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng recovered from an early wobble to add 0.2 percent. The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index rose 0.44 percent.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Oil continued its march higher. Benchmark Brent crude rose 1 percent, advancing its gains for the quarter and sidestepping data the day prior showing a surprise build in U.S. crude stockpiles.Many markets across Europe and the Americas will be closed on the final weekday of the quarter in observance of Good Friday.AdvertisementA monthly markets poll by Reuters showed trade war and tech sector worries have spooked global investors into cutting equity exposure to a four-month low and holdings of U.S. stocks to the lowest in nearly two years.Roger Jones, the head of equities at London & Capital, said he hopes the equity market's selloff from its highs is not prolonged."The longer this goes, the higher the chance it will start to affect the man in the street," said Jones.Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury notes rose in price to yield 2.741 percent, from 2.775 percent late on Wednesday.That market action pushed the gap between short- and long-dated Treasury yields to its tightest in a decade. Some investors see the narrowing as a sign the economy will sputter. In addition to that curve flattening, the quarter was marked by a rise in short-term borrowing costs, reflected in the soaring London interbank offered rate (Libor).(For a graphic on 'Global assets in 2018' click http://tmsnrt.rs/2jvdmXl)(For a graphic on 'Global currencies vs. dollar' click http://tmsnrt.rs/2egbfVh)(For a graphic on 'All Country World Index Market Cap' click http://tmsnrt.rs/2EmTD6j)(Reporting by Trevor Hunnicutt in New York; Additional reporting by Marc Jones in London; Editing by Bernadette Baum and James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 5:30 P.M. E.D.T.
Welcome to Augusta National, a Baba Booey-free zone.For one week, the Masters brings a measure of civility back to a game that has grown more obnoxious outside the ropes in recent years.For these four days in April, the odds of TV mics picking up the calls of the over-served — "Baba Booey," ''get in the hole," ''mashed potatoes" and worse — are virtually nil because, to put it simply, the green jackets who run the club do not allow it.It is, in the eyes of many pro players, a welcome reprieve from what has become an increasingly uncivilized game — filled with more volume, more raucous behavior, more people there to get heard on TV than to watch golf. In only a few events this year, high-profile players Sergio Garcia, Rory McIlroy and Justin Thomas have dealt with out-of-line comments. Garcia and Thomas even ended up getting hecklers ejected."Everybody seems to want to say something," Steve Stricker said. "The fans all want to voice their opinion, and they feel like they paid to get in so they're going to yell a few things out there at you.Advertisement"We have to think about it and worry about it a little bit, but we're not over that line yet. It's on the verge. It seems like we're at a tipping point."AdvertisementThe Masters is different. This is the course where a fan — make that patron — can place a lawn chair to reserve a spot near the 18th green, or any green, leave for four hours, then come back and see all his or her belongings there, undisturbed.Running across the hallowed grounds is verboten.And when the PGA Tour finally relaxed its rules regarding cellphones, Augusta National did not. The home of the season's first major meticulously tracks its tickets — and does not hesitate to pull them from people who do not follow the rules."It's quite simple: At Augusta, people know if you shout the wrong thing, you're out of there within 10 seconds," Garcia said.There's a lot more leniency at regular PGA Tour events. Shouts, screams and some irreverence are a growing trend."It's a good problem to have," commissioner Jay Monahan said. "You have more people, young people, coming to our events than we've ever seen. Some of these people are new, and we're trying to bring new people into our sport. ... This issue is going to come when you have outdoor events with the number of people we have."We've got a significant number of people and resources to make sure the right behavior is happening on the golf course. We've had some high-profile incidents the last few weeks. We're monitoring it and we'll get it right. I think a lot of that behavior will be self-policing."The mute button has been difficult to find, especially in an era when people often share every thought via social media.AdvertisementThere might be other factors, too.McIlroy suggested limiting alcohol sales at events after a spectator kept yelling his wife's name during the Arnold Palmer Invitational in Orlando a few weeks ago."I was going to go over and have a chat with him," McIlroy said. "I think it's gotten a little much, to be honest. ... They need to do something, because every week it seems like guys are complaining about it more and more."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.No longer are there only quaint groups watching golf in utter silence and then responding with restrained applause. Decency and decorum are, for the most part, going the way of wooden drivers.Rowdy crowds have become the norm, with many fans starting to treat the game like any other sporting event. They jeer unpopular golfers. They cheer balls hit into the water. They fear nothing. It's Phoenix Open fervor everywhere. It's Ryder Cup passion at every stop. It's courtside cackles and sideline taunts instead of greenside graciousness."It's great for the tournament. It's great for us. But golf is different than a football game, and there's etiquette involved and you don't want people to be put off from bringing their kids when people are shouting stuff out," McIlroy said.Thomas had a fan ejected for yelling what he called "unacceptable things" at the Genesis Open in Los Angeles in February. The following week at the Honda Classic, he had another person removed for saying, "Get in the bunker.""I guess it's a part of it now, unfortunately," Thomas said. "I wish it wasn't. I wish people didn't think it was so amusing to yell and all that stuff while we're trying to hit shots and play."At the Dell Technologies Match Play last week, Garcia pointed out a guy who "was shouting not very nice things at me." Security removed him."The crowds in our game have gotten bigger, so obviously it's not just golf crowds that you get now," the defending Masters champion said. "And sometimes, unfortunately, you get one or two guys that are probably having too much fun and a little bit too much liquid and unfortunately it happens. That's the way it is."AdvertisementTiger Woods' return from a fourth back surgery has boosted golf galleries, but recent fan misbehavior can't be blamed solely on the "Tiger Effect."Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter — and Howard Stern's satellite radio show, where the host gleefully shares clips of the "Baba Booey" shout-outs — are partially responsible for tempting fans with a chance at 15 seconds of fame.Golfers might be the ones who have to adjust, at least at most events."Guys on the tour are bit too sensitive right now," Adam Scott said. "We might need to just find a way to block it out because it's only going to get worse. We've come from playing in silence to something new. It's how it's going to evolve. I think it's generally a good thing. I don't think we should be turning people away, but we should be pointing them in the right spot."It's a delicate balance because you want some atmosphere out there. This is sport. I think we're just seeing the evolution of the game. It's gone from a gentleman's game, let's say, to — on purpose — the tour is taking it more mainstream and this is what we're going to get: more sports crowds."And more "Baba Booey" and "mashed potatoes" shouts.Just not this week. Not at the Masters.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Follow Us:Get the Upshot in your Inbox

      By ANNA FLAGG

MARCH 30, 2018

The link between immigration and crime exists in the imaginations of Americans, and nowhere else.
Related Article
The Trump administration’s first year of immigration policy has relied on claims that immigrants bring crime into America. President Trump’s latest target is sanctuary cities.“Every day, sanctuary cities release illegal immigrants, drug dealers, traffickers, gang members back into our communities,” he said last week. “They’re safe havens for just some terrible people.”As of 2017, according to Gallup polls, almost half of Americans agreed that immigrants make crime worse. But is it true that immigration drives crime? Many studies have shown that it does not.Immigrant populations in the United States have been growing fast for decades now. Crime in the same period, however, has moved in the opposite direction, with the national rate of violent crime today well below what it was in 1980.In a large-scale collaboration by four universities, led by Robert Adelman, a sociologist at the State University of New York at Buffalo, researchers compared immigration rates with crime rates for 200 metropolitan areas over the last several decades. The selected areas included huge urban hubs like New York and smaller manufacturing centers less than a hundredth that size, like Muncie, Ind., and were dispersed geographically across the country.According to data from the study, a large majority of the areas have many more immigrants today than they did in 1980 and fewer violent crimes. The Marshall Project extended the study’s data up to 2016, showing that crime fell more often than it rose even as immigrant populations grew almost across the board.In 136 metro areas, almost 70 percent of those studied, the immigrant population increased between 1980 and 2016 while crime stayed stable or fell. The number of areas where crime and immigration both increased was much lower — 54 areas, slightly more than a quarter of the total. The 10 places with the largest increases in immigrants all had lower levels of crime in 2016 than in 1980.And yet the argument that immigrants bring crime into America has driven many of the policies enacted or proposed by the administration so far: restrictions to entry, travel and visas; heightened border enforcement; plans for a wall along the border with Mexico. This month, the Justice Department filed a lawsuit against California in response to the state’s restrictions on local police to assist Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers in detaining and deporting undocumented immigrants charged with crimes. On Tuesday, California’s Orange County signed on in support of that suit. But while the immigrant population in the county has more than doubled since 1980, overall violent crime has decreased by more than 50 percent. There’s a similar pattern in two other places where Mr. Trump has recently feuded with local leaders: Oakland, Calif., and Lawrence, Mass. He described both cities as breeding grounds for drugs and crime brought by immigrants. But Oakland, like Orange County, has had increasing immigration and falling crime. In Lawrence, though murder and robbery rates grew, overall violent crime rates still fell by 10 percent.In general, the study’s data suggests either that immigration has the effect of reducing average crime, or that there is simply no relationship between the two, and that the 54 areas in the study where both grew were instances of coincidence, not cause and effect. This was a consistent pattern in each decade from 1980 to 2016, with immigrant populations and crime failing to grow together.In a majority of areas, the number of immigrants increased at least 57 percent and as much as 183 percent, with the greatest increases occurring in the 1990s and early 2000s. Violent crime rates in most areas ranged between a 43 percent decline and a 6 percent rise, often trending downward by the 2000s. Places with a sharp rise in the immigrant population experienced increases in crime rates no more frequently than those with modest or no growth in immigration. On average, the immigrant population grew by 137 percent between 1980 and 2016, with average crime falling 12 percent over the same period.Because the F.B.I. changed how rape was defined in its crime figures, that category could not be included in this analysis. Focusing on the other components of the violent crime rate — assaults, robberies and murders — still fails to reveal a relationship with immigration rates.ImmigrantpopulationAssaultsRobberiesMurdersMost areas experienced decreases in all types of violent crime. The change in assault rates ranged from a 34 percent decline to a 29 percent rise, while robbery rates declined in the range of 12 percent to 57 percent, and murder rates declined in the range of 15 percent to 54 percent.This analysis is one of the most comprehensive longitudinal studies of the local immigrant-crime relationship. It spans decades of metropolitan area data, incorporating places with widely differing social, cultural and economic backgrounds, and a broad range of types of violent crime.Areas were chosen to reflect a range of immigrant composition, from Wheeling, W.Va., where one in 100 people was born outside the United States, to Miami, where every second person was. Some areas were home to newly formed immigrant communities; other immigrant pockets went back generations. Controlling for population characteristics, unemployment rates and other socioeconomic conditions, the researchers still found that, on average, as immigration increases in American metropolises, crime decreases.The foreign-born data, which is collected through the census, most likely undercounts the numbers of undocumented immigrants, many of whom might wish to avoid the risk of identifying themselves. They are, however, at least partly represented in the overall foreign-born population counts.This is not the only study showing that immigration does not increase crime. A broad survey released in January examined years of research on the immigrant-crime connection, concluding that an overwhelming majority of studies found either no relationship between the two or a beneficial one, in which immigrant communities bring economic and cultural revitalization to the neighborhoods they join.This article was published in partnership with The Marshall Project, a nonprofit news organization covering the U.S. criminal justice system. Sign up for its newsletter, or follow The Marshall Project on Facebook or Twitter.  Anna Flagg is an interactive reporter for The Marshall Project.In the recent study, Mr. Adelman and his team collected crime and foreign-born population data for 200 metropolitan statistical areas for the years 1970, 1980, 1990, 2000 and 2010. The Marshall Project extended the data set to include 2016, obtaining foreign-born numbers from the American Community Survey one-year estimates and crime figures from the F.B.I. Uniform Crime Reporting Program metropolitan area data sets. When either foreign-born or crime information was unavailable for 2016, the corresponding 2015 data was substituted.Some metropolitan areas changed over time, growing to include additional regions, or splitting into separate ones. The Marshall Project consulted with the study researchers to determine when a larger area was still an appropriate match to the original described in the study. When an area split into components, raw data from each was added to calculate rates approximating the original region. When no reasonable approximation to the original area could be found, it was marked as missing for 2016.When an area was missing information for a certain year, that year's data was interpolated using figures from the closest year available. For example, crime numbers were unavailable for Chicago for 2000 and 2010. Data for those years was linearly interpolated using the 1990 and 2016 figures. Charlotte, N.C., was not included in either the 2016 or 2015 U.C.R. metropolitan area data sets, so data from 2010, the most recent year with available data for this area, was used as an estimate.AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:11 P.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  South Korean trade officials braved snowstorms, ate instant noodles to save time and spent weeks hotel-hopping in Washington as they raced to overcome major trade hurdles with their U.S. ally ahead of high-stakes nuclear discussions with North Korea.What was meant to be a week-long trip to Washington stretched into a four-week marathon, as dozens of Seoul officials sought to wrap up talks aimed at amending the six-year-old U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement known as KORUS, according to several South Korean officials with direct knowledge of the matter.U.S. plans announced earlier this month to impose hefty tariffs on steel and aluminium imports added urgency to the trade negotiations. As the third-largest steel exporter to the United States, South Korea had a lot to lose from 25 percent tariffs.Seoul also felt it couldn't afford a protracted trade dispute with its most important ally at a time when the two need to work together to contain a nuclear-armed North Korea, the officials told Reuters.Advertisement"This had to work well," a senior official at South Korea's presidential Blue House told Reuters. "It was right to settle this as soon as possible because if this remains ahead of inter-Korean talks and U.S.-North Korea talks, it could unnecessarily complicate our relationship."AdvertisementU.S. President Donald Trump initially welcomed the breakthrough as a "great deal for American and Korean workers", a marked turnaround from a year ago when he told Reuters he would either renegotiate or scrap what he called a "horrible" trade deal.But Trump said on Thursday he may hold up signing it until after an agreement is reached with North Korea on denuclearisation, saying such a deal was "a very strong card" to ensure fairness on the new trade pact.Trump is expected to meet with North Korea's Kim Jong Un in May after the two Koreas hold their first summit in more than a decade in late April. All parties are expected to discuss the denuclearisation of North Korea."FINALLY WITHIN REACH"Whenever South Korean President Moon Jae-in had a phone call with Trump to discuss the North Korean nuclear issue in recent months, Moon also raised the trade agenda, the Blue House official said.In their latest call on March 16, while the two countries' trade representatives were holding a third round of trade talks in Washington, Moon asked Trump to have a "keen interest" in the matter and work toward a speedy trade agreement before their respective summit meetings Kim, the Blue House said at the time.Around that time, South Korean negotiators started to see a glimmer of hope they could save the trade pact, which has seen the U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea double since 2012 when it took effect."The negotiations started to make progress around March 17, and that's why our trade team decided to stay longer because they thought agreement was finally within reach," said a South Korean senior trade ministry official.AdvertisementThe official and another trade official said nearly 30 South Korean negotiators had to move hotels repeatedly in Washington when their trip took longer than expected, at times finding themselves crammed into one hotel room to work on their negotiation strategy for the next day.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We mostly lived off on instant noodles and quick seaweed rice wraps bought from Korean supermarkets to save time," the official said.The efforts culminated in a revised pact the two countries announced this week that gives U.S. automakers and pharmaceuticals more access to the South Korean market.It also lifted the threat of a 25 percent U.S. tariff on South Korean steel in exchange for quotas that will cut imports of Korean steel by about 30 percent."We swiftly removed potential conflicts between the two countries at a time when close cooperation between South Korea and the United States is more important than ever," a second senior Blue House official said.All the South Korean officials interviewed by Reuters asked not to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue.For a graphic on North Korea revealed, click  https://www.reuters.com/north-korea/For a graphic on Nuclear North Korea, click  http://tmsnrt.rs/2lE5yjF"AS COLD AS SIBERIA"The talks didn't get off to a good start as the United States "kept asking us to make concessions unilaterally," South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said in an interview broadcast live to the Blue House’s Facebook account on Thursday."When we first met to talk, the mood was as cold as Siberia and our meeting only lasted for 21 minutes," Kim said, referring to U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. "Later on, we got closer and our relations developed to something like a bromance."AdvertisementFrom the start, South Korea saw that for the deal to survive, concessions were inevitable in autos, which made up over 70 percent of its 2017 trade surplus with the United States."If the free trade deal got terminated and 8 percent tariffs revived on South Korean auto exports, that would have been an absolute nightmare. Problem was, how do we sell a deal that doesn't do anything good for us?," a senior South Korean government official said."The steel issue effectively provided an opening. We make concessions in autos that we saw as inevitable anyway, and in return become the first country to be exempt from steel tariffs. This suddenly became a win-win."(Reporting By Jane Chung and Christine Kim. Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim. Editing by Soyoung Kim and Lincoln Feast)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAN LEVINMARCH 29, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Kim Jong-un’s power play, a French march against hate and a Balkan design facepalm. Here’s the latest:• Confident, reasonable — willing to bargain.That’s how North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, came across in his debut as a global statesman — and he did so with a dash of mystery. Here’s how the Chinese and the North Korean news media portrayed the meeting with President Xi Jinping.Mr. Kim’s two-day visit — his first known trip abroad since taking power — was a reminder of how much he has set the agenda in the North Korean nuclear crisis and, our correspondent writes, what a strong hand he has going into negotiations.President Trump was quick to chime in. He posted on Twitter that Mr. Xi told him that the meeting went “very well” and that Mr. Kim “looks forward to his meeting with me.”Advertisement_____• “In France, we kill grandmothers because they’re Jewish.”Condemning anti-Semitic violence, thousands marched through Paris to honor Mireille Knoll, above, an 85-year-old Holocaust survivor who was murdered in her apartment last week.AdvertisementShe was stabbed 11 times and partly burned, and a neighbor is one of the suspects. He reportedly said “God is great” in Arabic during the killing, which the authorities have labeled a hate crime, renewing concerns about a persistent strain of anti-Semitism in France._____• The British authorities said that a poisoned former Russian spy and his daughter, who are at the epicenter of a diplomatic crisis between Russia and the West, had been sickened by a nerve agent on the front door of his house, above, in the cathedral town of Salisbury, England.The announcement narrows the possibilities of how the victims came into contact with Novichok, a lethal toxin developed by Soviet scientists.Separately, outrage continues to mount in Russia as funerals began for the 64 victims of a deadly shopping mall fire in the Siberian city of Kemerovo._____• A lawyer for President Trump broached the idea of pardoning two of his former top advisers, Michael Flynn and Paul Manafort, with their attorneys last year, according to people with knowledge of the talks. But the lawyer, John Dowd, who resigned last week, denied it.Yet the special investigation into Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia continues to gain steam. The U.S. special counsel released a document showing that Rick Gates, a top Trump campaign official, had repeated communications with a business associate tied to Russian intelligence during the final weeks of the 2016 presidential election.Meanwhile, Mr. Trump has chosen his personal physician, Ronny L. Jackson, above, as the new secretary of veterans affairs, replacing David Shulkin. (Finding it hard to keep track of all the Trump administration turnover? Here’s a handy breakdown.)Advertisement_____• A capital of kitsch. An ambitious building project in Skopje, the capital of Macedonia, was intended to evoke an ancient past.But $750 million, hundreds of new statues and three pirate ships later, the remodeling has become a cautionary tale of Balkan nationalism gone wild._____• Is your waiter rude, or just French?Few cultural stereotypes are more pervasive than the surly French garçon. That perception was even used as a defense in a recent wrongful termination suit in Canada.In the lawsuit, a French waiter who was fired for being combative and aggressive said his former bosses were discriminating against his culture and heritage. (Above, a waiter at a restaurant in Paris.)What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Boeing was hit by a cyberattack that some executives say used the same ransomware that struck thousands of computer systems in more than 70 countries last year.• President Trump wants to remake global trade in a matter of months. Here’s how he’s trying to do it.• A top Morgan Stanley broker was repeatedly accused of violence against his ex-wives and girlfriends. Bank managers were told. But he kept his job.• Facebook will introduce a centralized system for its users to control their privacy and security settings in response to an outcry over the way it has handled personal data.Advertisement• An advertising group that gave Cambridge Analytica a gold prize for its work for the Trump campaign is now urging marketers to reconsider the ethics of how consumer information is collected. (It has yet to rescind the award.)• Saudi Arabia may be changing, but the sudden postponement of its first fashion week suggests bumps in the road.• U.S. stocks were mixed. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• In Egypt, it’s $3 a vote. With no real challenger in this week’s election, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi is cajoling, coercing and even paying voters to ensure a credible turnout. Above, a woman with a photo of Mr. Sisi in Cairo. [The New York Times]• Ecuador  cut off internet access — again — for Julian Assange, who lives in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London. The government cited concerns that he was harming the country’s international relationships on social media. [The New York Times]• Just in time for summer, Ireland will be getting its first official nude beach. [BBC]• Immigration has helped bump Germany’s birthrate to its highest in decades. [Politico]• Pope Francis rejected calls to apologize for the Roman Catholic Church’s role in a Canadian school system that tried to eliminate Indigenous culture. Many native students were sexually and physically abused by priests and nuns. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: If you’re looking for big flavor, a chicken tagine is just what you need.• Being a wedding guest can get pricey. Here’s how to cut costs.• Have a tiny apartment? These are the best cleaning tools for a small space.Advertisement• In Cambodia, ethnic Vietnamese live in floating villages, above, spread across the Mekong River, a symbol of their perpetually adrift status in Cambodian society.• An ancient guide: In Rome, you can actually map a 2,000-year-old eyewitness account of history onto the modern urban landscape.• In memoriam: Liam O’Flynn, 72, a master Irish piper who “could move your heart” with the most difficult instrument to play in the arsenal of Irish music.• A landmark ruling in Israel allows babies to be conceived from frozen embryos or sperm of people who have died. But is it ethical?On this day in 1961, the 23rd Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was approved by the required three-fourths of the states, giving Washingtonians the right to vote for president and vice president for the first time in more than 160 years.“The United States finally gave its capital the vote today,” The Times noted on its front page, with a hint of impatience.The amendment granted representation to the District of Columbia in the Electoral College, where states are given electors based on population. Although the District’s population (estimated around 700,000 in 2017) is larger than that of some states, it is given no more electors than the least populous state, which is currently Wyoming.At the time, the push to give the vote to the district, with its large African-American population, became caught up in the civil rights movement. The amendment was opposed in the South, where Tennessee was the only state to ratify it.AdvertisementDemocrats have since been able to count on the district’s three electoral votes, which have been cast for each of the party’s presidential candidates, starting with Lyndon Johnson in 1964.Although the district’s residents have a say at the White House, they lack a full voice in Congress, where their representative does not have full voting rights.Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Wine School By                     
 ERIC ASIMOV
 
MARCH 29, 2018
To hear the wine marketers tell it, every estate picks its grapes at the point of perfect ripeness. But does such a moment really exist?As with so much in wine, what is in fact subjective is often presented as objective. Just as no perfect moment exists to open a bottle, and no optimum length exists for aging a wine, no particular set of conditions defines perfect ripeness. It all depends on the intent and taste of the grower and producer, along with vintage conditions, the site and perhaps a bit of luck.The motives of the marketer and the desires of the consumer inevitably clash. Here at Wine School, we love wine, but are inherently skeptical about anybody in the trade who claims to have done anything at the one right moment. Just as in journalism, in which generations of reporters have been taught never to assume a thing — not even that their mothers love them — such claims should invite doubt.I was thinking about ripeness over the last few weeks as we tasted several examples of Rosso di Montalcino, the younger sibling of the renowned Brunello di Montalcino. Each of the three bottles I suggested, from the 2015 vintage, seemed to exhibit a different degree of ripeness. Each, depending on the taste of the consumer, could be considered to have been made with properly ripened grapes.AdvertisementThese were the three Rosso di Montalcinos: La Torre, Le Potazzine and Lisini.Each wine, as is required of all Rossos and Brunellos di Montalcino, was made entirely of the sangiovese grape. At times this rule has caused frustration among some Montalcino producers, who 20 years ago were seeking to soften sangiovese’s naturally high acidity, darken its characteristically ruby color and relax its often angular austerity by adding international grapes like merlot, syrah or cabernet sauvignon.Those efforts outside the rules came crashing down in scandal in 2008. Since then, Montalcino producers have, outwardly at least, reconciled themselves to the sangiovese rule and have turned to legal, if not always palatable, methods to achieve their aims.Among those methods, they might age the wine in small barrels of new oak, which can intensify the color. Frankly, I’ve never understood the fixation with dark colors in red wine. Some of the greatest Burgundy, Barolo and sangiovese-based wines are fairly pale.You would think that producers would aim for pale rather than dark. But they have heard from consultants that consumers prefer darker reds. The nonsense apparently flows in both directions.Producers might also try to address some of their concerns in the vineyard, through how they manage the canopy of leaves, which can be arranged not only to allow a steady movement of air, reducing susceptibility to diseases, but also to shade grapes from the sun or to permit more direct sunlight, affecting the rate at which the grapes ripen. They can vary the yield of the vines, through pruning or thinning grape bunches, which can ultimately achieve greater or lesser intensity in the wines. And they can manipulate aromas, flavors and textures simply by deciding when to pick the grapes.AdvertisementI’m happy to say that I do not think that any of these three producers is troubled by the natural characteristics of sangiovese, one of the world’s great grapes. Each of these wines showed ample evidence of sangiovese’s vibrant acidity. They were also naturally tannic, meaning that they demonstrated the true tannins of the grape rather than the bitter tannins that can be imparted by new oak barrels. And they showed the true flavors and character of sangiovese, unmitigated by new oak.But each bottle seemed to adhere to a different definition of ripeness. It seemed to me, judging strictly by the wine, that the Rosso from La Torre had been picked the earliest. Its dominant characteristics were freshness and purity of aromas and flavors.I loved its liveliness, its dusty, earthy red fruit flavors with a touch of minerality and bitterness. In current wine parlance, sommeliers might refer to this wine as “crunchy,” like biting into a juicy apple in which the sweetness and the acidity were precisely balanced.At the other end of this admittedly narrow spectrum, the Lisini Rosso seems much riper. The fruit is a little bit sweeter, as if you are not biting into a piece of fresh fruit but maybe dipping into some compote. It’s also more tannic, as if the juice of the freshly crushed grapes had macerated longer with the tannin-bearing skins, or perhaps the grape skins were a bit thicker and contained more tannic compounds.I would not call these grapes overripe by any means. Wines made from overripe grapes would be overtly jammy, with less acidity. They can feel thick, give an impression of sweetness and lack zest. Some people enjoy them, but not me.The Rosso from Le Potazzine seemed to stake out a middle ground. It offered the acid snap of the La Torre but was even more tannic than the Lisini. The fruit was not sweet, but the flavors seemed darker, with almost a licorice tinge.All of these wines improved with food, fettuccine Bolognese, but Le Potazzine really blossomed, melding beautifully with the rich, meaty sauce.Rosso, as I said, is the younger sibling of Brunello di Montalcino. What’s the difference?Brunello is aged longer, for one thing, four years before it can be released, of which a minimum of two must be in casks. Rosso need only be aged one year before release.Producers often choose to use the fruit from younger vines or from lesser sites in their Rosso, or grapes that simply did not fit into the blend of their Brunello.AdvertisementThough marketers often try to capitalize on the fame of Brunello by referring to Rossos as “Baby Brunellos,” it’s better to accept Rossos on their own terms. They are lighter, fresher, more easygoing wines, more accessible without aging, though some will evolve and improve over the years. They generally do not require contemplation, and what’s wrong with that? Deliciousness is its own reward.I have noticed among some consumers a tendency to dismiss Montalcino wines in general as somehow not being authentic enough, much in the same way that many have sneered at Bordeaux. Please. Like any wine region in the world, Montalcino has its share of poseurs, manipulators and fabricators. But the good wines are beautiful and should not be missed.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Readers seemed to enjoy these wines, although several remembered days when they cost $10, not $30. Of course, we could have that conversation about a lot of wines. One reader, VSB in San Francisco, who drank the 2015 La Torre, seemed surprised about one thing, though.“Oddly, tasted better with the food than by itself,” he said.Welcome to Italy, where wine is especially constructed to go with food. On their own, most traditionally made Italian reds can taste acidic, tannic and bitter without food. They are meant for the table, not as cocktails or aperitifs. In Italy, that’s what sparkling wine is for.While I seized on these three wines for the opportunity they offered to talk about ripeness, other factors also play a role. Soils will influence the flavors; those grapes coming from heavier clay sites will be fruitier and denser, while those from sites with more limestone may be more aromatic and less fruity. The altitude of the vineyard plays a role, as does luck.By that I mean that some things are out of a grower’s control. A crew of grape pickers might not be available at the moment a grower wants to harvest. That unexpected delay can result in riper grapes than envisioned.But the most important factor is intent. Each of these wines, I believed, represented the intent of the producer, and each differed. So when you hear the next marketer crowing about the “perfect ripeness” of the grapes, simply know that the marketers should add a clause to their claim: “in our opinion.”Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: ‘Ideal’ Is an Opinion.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHARLES McDERMIDAPRIL 1, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Pope Francis calls for peace, Kim Jong-un takes in some K-pop, and Tesla faces more trouble. Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a “dangerous” flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s hard-line stance on immigration._____• In Afghanistan, the Taliban are increasingly attacking security forces using night-vision goggles and lasers that U.S. military officials said were either stolen from Afghan and international troops or bought on the black market.And a retired U.S. lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005 said advanced equipment, like drones and precision weapons, is being seized by extremist groups in other global conflict zones.Advertisement“It’s going to change how we operate,” he said._____• “For every 10 killed, 20 more will join.”AdvertisementThat was a protester in the Kashmir Valley on Sunday, after the Indian Army killed at least 12 militants. It was the largest one-day toll of insurgents in recent years, in a brutal territorial conflict between India and Pakistan that has endured for decades.At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were reported wounded._____• Tesla appears to be in real trouble.Concerns that Elon Musk’s electric-car company is burning through cash have damaged its credit rating and raised questions about whether it could run out of money by the end of the year.And its stock fell in after-hours trading last week, after Tesla disclosed that a fatal crash in California on March 23 occurred while Autopilot, its semiautonomous driving system, above, was engaged._____• Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the “carnage” in “the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria” and urged “reconciliation” in the Middle East. The pope also pressed for “the fruits of dialogue” to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula, above, where 10,000 Christians gathered in Seoul to pray.At St. Andrew’s Cathedral in Sydney, Australia, the Anglican archbishop Glenn Davies said the redemption of Easter gave hope of forgiveness to all who faced moral failure — including the disgraced Australia cricket team.• Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazon’s Alexa Super Bowl ad.)Advertisement• Eight years after Live Nation merged with Ticketmaster, bringing together the world’s largest concert promoter with the world’s leading ticket provider, U.S. regulators are looking into accusations that the company uses threats and pressure to rule ticketing.• “Ready Player One,” Steven Spielberg’s nostalgia-soaked science-fiction adventure, took in more than $181 million on its debut weekend. Chinese ticket buyers turned out in particular force.• Facebook’s latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending  growth at any cost — even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.)• The list of Chinese products that will be hit with new U.S. tariffs is expected to be announced within days. Here are other headlines to watch for this week.• Markets are closed in Australia, Hong Kong, London and Milan. Here’s a snapshot of other global markets.• North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and South Korea’s culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, were in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times]• “Like a Dream.” The Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai made an emotional return home to Pakistan’s Swat Valley, where the Taliban tried to kill her in 2012. [The New York Times]• The U.N. announced new measures against North Korea, blacklisting 27 ships, 21 shipping companies and one individual accused of helping the North evade sanctions. [The New York Times]Advertisement• Israel warned that it would target groups inside Gaza if violence along the border continued. On Friday, at least 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire. [The New York Times]• A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old Filipina maid, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Agence France-Presse]• The Chinese space lab Tiangong-1 is expected to burn into Earth’s atmosphere within hours. Here’s a look at the rise and fall of China’s first space station. [The New York Times]• April Fools’ Day on the internet: Australia’s public broadcaster navigated some of this year’s biggest joke headlines, including “drop bears” and chocolate burgers. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Working out is great for you. Here’s how to start.• For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes.• Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo.• Why would a 70 year old kayak across the Atlantic Ocean (for the third time)? “To feel alive,” said the man who did it.• A landmark ruling in Israel allows babies to be conceived from frozen embryos or sperm of people who have died. But is it ethical?Advertisement• And “The Last Wild Men of Borneo” by Carl Hoffman tells the stories of an environmental activist accepted by an indigenous tribe as one of its own, and a man who became one of the world’s most successful tribal art collectors.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates to 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature activity, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.“The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan,” The Times noted last year.Guests receive a souvenir wooden egg as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and they’re also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. AdvertisementBrowse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Ties By                     
SIMONE GORRINDO

MARCH 30, 2018
At story hour in Tacoma, we sit — strangers in a circle — and sing nursery rhymes to our babies. Since my family and I left Georgia, where my husband, Andrew, was stationed for five years with the Army, I have been eagerly anticipating moments like this: communion with like-minded parents, the kind of NPR-listening liberals I’d spent my 20s around in Brooklyn before the Army uprooted me, transforming me into the proverbial stranger in a strange land. But now that I’m here, desperately trying to follow along — Where is thumbkin, where is thumbkin? — I feel utterly out of place.I came to the Wheelock library on a blind mom-date with a clinical psychologist and recent L.A. transplant I met in a Facebook group for Tacoma mothers. I look to her to share a knowing smile — oh boy — but she is serene, playing her role pitch-perfectly as she coos at her baby boy. This mom is shockingly together. She has parenting philosophies, and, what’s more, she acts on them. She practices R.I.E. with her baby, a parenting method based on the concept of treating the baby with dignity and respect.“I don’t distract him during diaper changes,” she explained, “but talk him through the process instead.”When I was pregnant, I thought I’d have philosophies too. But the baby books have remained unread, my lonely days with Fiona so chaotic that my only philosophy, if I have one, is survival.AdvertisementAt story hour, we squeak through “I’m a Little Teapot,” and it’s time for introductions. There’s a blue-haired mom named Virandara in flowing pants; a dad in horn-rimmed glasses feeding his baby pumped milk; a skinny guy with a toothy smile and a T-shirt that says “Kindness Is Everything.” I have forgotten how to make conversation with these people.AdvertisementCould this loneliness, this outsiderness, be a permanent fixture of my identity now? When Andrew made the radical decision to join the Army just before we married, I hadn’t guessed I’d one day be considering this question. I hadn’t anticipated an Army life at all when we fell in love, and yet, when he made the impassioned argument for joining, I wasn’t exactly surprised. My husband is not an easily categorizable man: He’d be equally at home at a gun range and a poetry reading. He found a way to fit in at Fort Benning because he is skilled at negotiating different worlds. He gets lonely too, but he has the architecture of the Army to hold him up, and I’m the home he always returns to.Army wives, on the other hand, are left to erect their own scaffoldings. Andrew is in a rapidly deployable combat unit with backbreaking daily hours. As the saying goes among wives in his unit: “Even when they’re here, they’re not really here.” It is the kind of life that one later apologizes to a spouse for: “I’ll make it up to you,” I watched a soldier say to his wife at his retirement ceremony, his voice breaking.Those wives are the toughest people I’ve ever known. Before we moved, I’d snobbishly envisioned my stint at Fort Benning as a kind of anthropological study, a view into another world.But from almost the moment we arrived, I sensed just how much I’d need these women, so I made every effort to inch my way into their lives. In the beginning, I couldn’t even navigate a conversation with most of them. We had nothing in common; we were separated by the chasms of life experience, education, politics, cultural vocabulary.Still, we forged relationships in the iron of showing up. We flew to emergency rooms, school pickups, maternity wards, kitchen counters. During my high-risk pregnancy with Fiona, Andrew was deployed; I spent so many nights at a friend’s house in those months that my Maps app registered her address as “Home.”My life with the other wives was like life with family: intense, necessary for survival, claustrophobic and never enough. By the time we left Georgia I was hungry for freedom from the Army, so I made sure we lived a freeway ride away from base, in a city full of progressive Seattle transplants. But now, surveying this circle of hip Tacoma strangers, I feel unmoored.The librarian announces the start of “free play,” which means parents can mingle. The guy in the “Kindness Is Everything” shirt approaches. He tells us he is a massage therapist who owns a Pilates studio.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“My wife and I split the child care,” he says.“My husband watches the baby on weekends while I Skype with clients,” the R.I.E. mom offers.AdvertisementI’m alone with Fiona for weeks until my eyes bleed, I want to say, but I don’t think it will play very well in this crowd.The Georgia moms would have related in an instant. Even though I was a mystery to them, arriving childless at 28, they brought me into their fray. I became the de facto babysitter, the honorary aunt at Mother’s Day lunches.They taught me everything I know about parenthood: You get through the days by force of will, by relying not on family or husbands but on friends — and often, brutally, on just yourself. You welcome people’s help with open arms, but recoil from anyone’s pity. And on the overwhelming days, you let your kids cry, walk into the summer heat of the backyard, and chug a beer.You also snuggle them past dawn and nurse them through every sickness and let them sleep in your bed when they cry. You need those kids as much as they need you. They are your anchors. Without them, you might drown or drift away.After free play, my blind date and I walk home, our babies cuddled in carriers. In the past week, spring has come to coastal Washington, the winter rains finally gone. Snowy white blossoms shower the ground and bursts of rhododendron fill front yards. Fiona and I spend our afternoons wandering these cracked sidewalks, peeking in the windows of old Tacoma craftsmen.The mom asks if I’d like to come to Easter brunch at her house.“There will be gluten free options,” she adds nervously.I hesitate.“There will be some really good people,” she says.In Georgia, I went to barbecues with “really good people,” young parents who had climbed out of hard backgrounds and carved out lives for themselves and their children. At first, I’d dreaded these barbecues, until, one day, I stopped dreading them. The wives and I never came to understand each other, really, but we allowed life to happen to us together, appearing on each other’s doorsteps with children in pajamas after blowout fights with husbands, after pipes bursting and miscarriages and late night phone calls alerting us of casualties overseas.Maybe that is all there is to know or understand in any human exchange: the asking to be let in. The vulnerable welcoming of another across our thresholds.It occurs to me that here, now, is an opening. So I might as well walk in.“What should I bring?” I ask, and she smiles.Simone Gorrindo is a writer and book editor living in Tacoma, Wash. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ROBERTA SMITH, WILL HEINRICH, MARTHA SCHWENDENER and JASON FARAGOMARCH 29, 2018
Through Saturday. Andrew Kreps Gallery, 537 West 22nd Street, Manhattan; 212-741-8849, andrewkreps.com.The Brazilian artist Erika Verzutti is in her late 40s, but her work exudes the exploratory energy of youth, mellowed by older, wiser emotional warmth, especially in her unusual combination of materials. In “Ex Gurus,” her first commercial gallery solo in New York, Ms. Verzutti uses raw bronze, gold in color, as canvas; combines papier-mâché with concrete; and in “Cemetery Inline,” makes a bumpy Carl Andre floor piece resembling a ragtag row of tombstones from chunks of cobblestone, unbaked clay and papier-mâché with color added. More subtly, Ms. Verzutti pits the translucence of oil paint against the implacable opacity of acrylic.This contrast is especially evident in “Floral,” where the shapes of a wilting flower and perhaps a beehive carved into the surface of raw bronze, are veiled in blue or yellow; dots of acrylic jump all around them like bees. Ms. Verzutti usually creates a specific physical place for color in her bronze surfaces (see the extremely satisfying “Astrology”). Except when she doesn’t: In “Homeopatia,” arguably the show’s star, lozenge-shaped indentations of brilliant color dot the raw bronze surface while other lozenges are painted flat on the surface, which creates strange spatial ambiguities. It resembles a painter’s palette and an entomologist’s beetle collection.Despite Ms. Verzutti’s love of color, her mind seems alive with sculpture. Past works have referred to Robert Gober and Jeff Koons. “Dias da Semana” evokes some of Brancusi’s sexier sculptures while also — seen from a certain angle — recalling her penchant for casting fruits and vegetables. In two dark bronze reliefs named “Witch” and “Pilates” she drags little stones or clumps of bronze down the surface, creating deep ruts and leaving the forming implements in place. They’re mini-earthworks that pay tribute to the Italian artist Lucio Fontana. Combined with the show’s title, the works’ names suggest paths to health that Ms. Verzutti has tried and discarded. They also suggest an artist who leaves no stone unturned.AdvertisementROBERTA SMITHThrough April 21. Gladstone 64, 130 East 64th Street, Manhattan; 212-753-2200, gladstone64.com.Each of the 12 new charcoal drawings in the pioneering photorealist Robert Bechtle’s latest show is a meticulously rendered view of an empty suburban street in Northern California. Boxy parked cars, single-story houses, and low-hanging power lines crowd together inside modest squares on warm gray paper.AdvertisementThe occasional small overlap or gap in the thin lines that circumscribe the squares are almost the only uncontrolled expressiveness in pictures as studiously devoid of spontaneous gestures as an engineering diagram. Things like the lush foliage in “Alameda Light” or the wrinkled tarp thrown over a car in “Dogpatch Wrap” might seem to offer the artist more occasion to let himself go, but in fact he records those less regular objects with the same straight-faced fidelity he applies to the shifting gray-tone planes of a sidewalk or wall.But well-placed details like those gaps, or like the little dots of white with which Mr. Bechtle heightens streetlights and shiny fenders, can have disproportionate effects. In this case they make the drawings feel as thrillingly precarious as a high-wire act. They also imbue empty cars and opaque windows, which might otherwise read simply as easy metaphors for loneliness and alienation, with a real, if mysterious, presence.In the show’s strangest and most memorable drawing, “Covered Car, San Francisco,” the 85-year-old Mr. Bechtle confronts that ambiguous presence directly, picturing it as a sleek, almost unbroken black silhouette divided from its own shadow by only a thin white speck.WILL HEINRICHThrough April 8. Callicoon Fine Arts, 49 Delancey Street, Manhattan; 212-219-0326, callicoonfinearts.com.In this post-truth moment, science fiction is particularly popular with artists. In her current exhibition, “A Vaudeville on Mankind in Time and Space,” Fia Backström draws upon the work of the Swedish Nobel laureate Harry Martinson, whose epic science fiction poem “Aniara: A Vaudeville on Mankind in Time and Space” provides both a title and a springboard for thinking about time, history and the fate of humanity.A broadsheet available to visitors at the front of the gallery describes Mr. Martinson’s 1956 poem, in which a spaceship populated with Earthlings escaping the wreckage of nuclear war and ecological disasters hits a meteorite labeled Hondo. The collision destroys the vessel’s navigation system, then the spaceship flies through deep space, toward doom, entertained by a female artificial intelligence system named Mima.Accompanying the broadsheet (which also wanders into Scandinavian folklore, pagan rituals and quantum physics) are abstract photographs on the wall as well as fuzzy brown works made by sticking parchment paper in the oven. The photographs feature real subjects — mucous, cuticles, newspaper clippings — often captured at microscopic levels to create a fossilized, distorted effect.AdvertisementTogether, the parts of Ms. Backström’s show serve as powerful analogues for our own era of refugees and migrants moving across a globe ravaged by despots, war and ecological disaster. Rather than addressing this directly, Ms. Backström gains power through the subtlety of suggestion. Change a few details, and “Aniara” sounds like reportage rather than fiction. Ms. Backström’s photographs could be scientific evidence of lost civilizations, gathered by future generations.MARTHA SCHWENDENERThrough May 6. Foxy Production, 2 East Broadway, Suite 200, Manhattan; 212-239-2758, foxyproduction.com.The globe is ever more networked, and has reduced unfathomable distances to the breadth of a screen; the globe is ever more riven, and political and social identities have solidified into stereotypes and dogmas. These two statements are no contradiction for the young South African artist Bogosi Sekhukhuni, whose New York debut, following on promising appearances in a number of international biennials, plumbs the shortcomings of digital technologies, neoliberal economics and multiracial democracy through videos, drawings, sculpture and a single painting.Mr. Sekhukhuni, born in Johannesburg in 1991, has a particular interest in how spirituality fills the gaps in lives pitted by economic hardship or technological isolation. For some, that takes the form of evangelical Christianity — the video “Thus Saith the Lord (Overunity)” (2015) introduces a real-life Zimbabwean entrepreneur who relies on divine guidance, rather than scientific know-how, to build helicopters and electric cars. Or it can take the form of post-apartheid New Age ancestor worship, which the artist delivers in the character of a deadpan talk show host.The emotional wages of technology also inform the two psychedelically colored videos of “Consciousness Engine 2: absentblackfatherbot” (2013), in which disembodied heads voice a series of Facebook chats between Mr. Sekhukhuni and his estranged father. (His father went on to block him on the app.) Their conversation is rendered via a text-to-speech engine that strips away both personality and cultural specificity; the artist’s “Howzit?” — a common South African greeting — sounds clanging when the software voices it in white-boy Americanese. When Mr. Sekhukhuni asks his father for help with tuition fees, the anonymizing software makes him a stand-in for the current generation of protesting South African students.In purely visual terms, Mr. Sekhukhuni has ample room to mature; his videos rely too heavily on plug-and-play personal computing software, and need to stand further from a million Tumblr memes. But his art already displays a sensitivity to the confluence of personal circumstances and political systems that would be the envy of artists twice his tender age.JASON FARAGOA version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page C15 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Bari WeissIt’s no rare thing for the Israeli prime minister to enrage the Jews of the diaspora. But three years ago, Benjamin Netanyahu delivered a speech that won him near-universal condemnation.In the aftermath of several deadly attacks in European cities like Paris and Copenhagen, Mr. Netanyahu called on Jews to leave Europe. “Of course, Jews deserve protection in every country. But we say to Jews, to our brothers and sisters: Israel is your home,” he said, echoing comments he had made more subtly the month before at Paris’s Grand Synagogue.Mr. Netanyahu’s suggestion of “mass immigration” was “unacceptable,” said Rabbi Menachem Margolin, the head of the European Jewish Association. Abraham Foxman, then head of the Anti-Defamation League, suggested such a policy would “grant Hitler a posthumous victory.” Denmark’s chief rabbi, Jair Melchior, said he was “disappointed.” Smadar Bar-Akiva, the executive director of JCC Global, said “the calls for French Jews to pack their bags” and move were “disturbing and self-defeating.”François Hollande, then president, echoing a chorus of European leaders, pushed back hard, appealing to his country’s Jews: “Your place is here, in your home. France is your country.”Is it?This is a question worth seriously asking following the barbaric murder last week of Mireille Knoll.Ms. Knoll, 85, believed Mr. Hollande. France was her place, her home, her country. And Paris was her city.She believed this despite the fact that it was also the city where, when she was 9 years old, the police rounded up 13,000 of the city’s Jews, 4,000 of them children, and crammed them into Vélodrome d’Hiver, a cycling stadium, before shipping them to their deaths at Auschwitz. Ms. Knoll narrowly escaped this largest French deportation of Jews during the Holocaust and fled to Portugal with her mother.After the war, she married a man who had survived Auschwitz. She returned to her native land where she built a home and raised a family. French to her core, she stayed in Paris even as her grandchildren moved to Israel.She remained in her apartment in the 11th arrondissement when, suffering from Parkinson’s disease, she was stabbed 11 times. Her apartment was then set on fire. Firefighters found the burned body on Friday night.Parisian authorities are investigating the murder as being motivated by the “membership, real or supposed, of the victim of a particular religion.” But euphemisms should have no place in describing the nature of Mireille Knoll’s death. She was murdered by men apparently animated by the same hatred that drove Hitler.Two suspects, a 29-year-old and a 21-year-old, have been arrested. The older man is a neighbor Ms. Knoll has known since he was a child. The younger, according to reports, is homeless. One of the suspects told the investigators that the other had shouted “Allahu Akbar” while killing Ms. Knoll, according to Le Monde. (A lawyer for the Knoll family, Gilles-William Goldnadel, confirmed that in a phone call.) On Tuesday, Gérard Collomb, the interior minister, told Parliament that one of the attackers had told the other: “She’s a Jew. She must have money.”In fact, Ms. Knoll was “poor,” according to her son, Daniel. She’d lived most of her life in the same apartment in the subsidized housing project where she was killed.It’s a neighborhood that has already borne witness to a nearly identical crime. Almost exactly a year ago, a 65-year-old Jewish widow named Sarah Halimi was murdered by her neighbor, 27-year-old Kobili Traoré. Other neighbors said they heard Mr. Traoré scream “Allahu Akbar” as he beat Ms. Halimi, a retired doctor, to near death in the early hours of April 4, 2017. He then threw her body into the courtyard below.It took months for Ms. Halimi’s murder to be categorized as an anti-Jewish hate crime. “It was scandalous,” said Mr. Goldnadel, the lawyer, who also represented the Halimi family.This time, French authorities have been quick to call the crime by its proper name. On Monday, President Emmanuel Macron tweeted: “I would like to express my shock at the appalling crime committed against Mrs. Knoll. I reaffirm my absolute determination to fight anti-Semitism.” On Wednesday, he said that she was murdered “because she was Jewish” at a tribute to a police officer killed in an Islamist attack. Mr. Macron has been widely praised by the country’s Jewish community for his moral clarity in describing anti-Zionism as a “reinvented form of anti-Semitism.”Anti-Semitism was supposed to be a disease of the far right. But the people actually killing Jews in France these days are not members of the National Front. They are Islamists.“The major crimes against the Jewish community — Ilan Halimi, the Toulouse killings, the Hyper Cacher killings, Sarah Halimi — all of them have all been carried out by radicalized Muslims,” Robert Ejnes, the executive director of CRIF, an umbrella organization of French Jewish groups, told me in a call from Paris. “These young people have French identity cards, but they hate what France stands for. This is the nature of the problem we are facing. And it’s very hard to talk about.”Here are some facts that are very hard to talk about: Jews represent less than 1 percent of the population in France, yet in 2014, 51 percent of all racist attacks were carried out against them, according to the French Interior Ministry. A survey from that year of about 1,000 French respondents with unknown religious affiliation and 575 self-identified Muslims, conducted by the AJC Paris and the French think tank Fondapol, found that the Muslim respondents were two or three times more likely to have anti-Jewish sentiments than those from the random French group. Nineteen percent of all respondents felt that Jews had “too much” political power. Among Muslims, the number was 51 percent. As for the idea that Zionism “is an international organization that aims to influence the world and society in favor of the Jews,” 44 percent of Muslims surveyed approved of this statement. The rest of the survey is just as devastating.For years now, France has deployed armed troops to protect Jewish synagogues and schools. But the violence on the streets — a 15-year-old girl wearing the uniform of her Jewish school slashed in the face; an 8-year-old boy wearing a kippah assaulted; teenage siblings called “dirty Jews” before being beaten — hasn’t abated. On Wednesday, hours before a march in honor of Mireille Knoll, the office of the Union of French Jewish Students at the Sorbonne was ransacked and defaced with graffiti like “Viva Arafat” and “death to Israel.”Whatever else the investigation of Ms. Knoll’s murder might reveal, this much we know for certain: The men who are accused of killing her were living in a culture in which Jews are reviled on the far right and, increasingly, on the far left; in which sensitivity toward cultural differences have driven too many for too long to ignore the spread of an ancient hatred in a vicious new form; in which attacks on Jews have been explained away as politically motivated by events in the Middle East. In such a culture, it shouldn’t come as a surprise that some would come to the conclusion that Jewish blood is cheap.In the wake of Ms. Knoll’s murder, all of the usual lines are being repeated. Anti-Semitism is the hatred that never dies. Violence that begins with the Jews never ends with them.All of this is true. What’s also true is that anti-Semitism is the oldest hatred in the world because individual people have sustained it in every generation. It cannot be defeated until we look these people and their ideologies in the face.Every French Jew — like millions of Jews throughout history — will have to make their own choice about whether to leave their homes for safer shores or to stay and fight for their rightful place in a country that prides itself on being a beacon of liberty and fraternity. But perhaps the better part of wisdom is with one of Mireille Knoll’s granddaughters, Noa Goldfarb. Following her grandmother’s murder, she wrote in a Facebook post from Israel: “Twenty years ago, I left Paris knowing that neither my future nor that of the Jewish People is to be found there.”Bari Weiss (@bariweiss) is a staff editor and writer for the opinion section.Advertisement
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
MARCH 29, 2018
Updated, 10:30 a.m.Good morning on this Holy Thursday.It’s opening day for Major League Baseball, and our two teams have two new faces that will be hard to miss this season.Their managers.Mickey Callaway has taken over for the Mets, and Aaron Boone will lead the Yankees.“The manager is the most public face of every single team, more so than the players,” said James Wagner, who covers the Mets for The Times.“Both teams had managers for a long time,” he added — Terry Collins had been with the Mets for seven years, and Joe Girardi with the Yankees for 10 — “so there’s been continuity for both teams that changed at the same time.”It will be a gamble for both squads because neither manager has done the job before; Mr. Callaway was the pitching coach of the Cleveland Indians, and Mr. Boone was an ESPN announcer with no coaching or managing experience.AdvertisementThey are also younger than most managers. At 68, Mr. Collins, was the oldest manager in the major leagues. Mr. Callaway, 42, is one of the youngest.Advertisement“It’s become a trend to have younger, more inexperienced people be managers,” Mr. Wagner said. “Knowing how to handle data and information and knowing how to relate to the players is more important than having done this for 30 years.”And Mr. Boone, 45, is nearly a decade younger than Mr. Girardi.“He was very hard-nosed and didn’t have much of a sense of humor,” Billy Witz, who covers the Yankees for The Times, said of the team’s former manager, “and I think his communication skills were drawn into question.”“They got somebody who was that antithesis of that in Aaron Boone — he’s very engaging and his strengths are in some of the areas that Girardi was lacking, so it’ll be interesting to see how much his lack of experience is a factor,” Mr. Witz said.The Mets host the St. Louis Cardinals today at 1:10 p.m. The Yankees, who are playing the Blue Jays this afternoon in Toronto, will host their first home game of the season on Monday against the Tampa Bay Rays.Here’s what else is happening:Mother Nature is striking out.A gloomy Thursday with a high of 55 and possible drizzles spilling over to Friday.(Hair forecast: helmet hair.)But the weekend’s looking like a home run.• A Guatemalan woman and her 15-month-old daughter have found sanctuary in a Manhattan church as they face deportation. [New York Times]• Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey announced that he would be running again, just months after corruption charges against him were dropped. [New York Times]Advertisement• Could one question on the 2020 census affect the $7 billion in funding the federal government gives to New York City? [New York Times]• Congress wants to study why it’s so expensive to build new subway lines in New York City. [New York Times]• Anti-Trump activists are looking to reclaim New York State by setting their sights on breakaway Democrats who have helped Republicans control the State Senate. [New York Times]• The governor floated a proposal during budget negotiations to create state-owned developments around Pennsylvania Station. [New York Times]• Food service workers at CUNY are reporting a high rate of injuries, low wages and labor violations. [New York Times]• How often are trains delayed because of signal issues? Just check on Twitter. [New York Times]• The state budget deadline is looming. The question is not what will be included in budget talks, but who? [New York Times]• The daily grind in Albany was disrupted by a few out-of-the-ordinary occurrences: a reporter thrown in jail and a coyote spotted near the Capitol. [New York Times]• A community board on the Lower East Side is pushing to save the neighborhood’s weekend bus service. [The Lo-Down]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• The Brooklyn Youth Chorus is lending their voice to the underserved by trying to combat prejudice in a concert series next month. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]Advertisement• The folk music icon Joan Baez has joined Brooklyn locals in a fight to save a Carroll Gardens schoolhouse. [The Brooklyn Paper]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “High-Flying MetroCard”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• An evening of cocktails and crafts, during which adults can dye Easter eggs, at the Queens Botanical Garden in Flushing. 6 p.m. [$18, registration required]• The jazz singer Whitney Marchelle performs at the Pelham Fritz Recreation Center in Marcus Garvey Park in Harlem. 6:30 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P. here]• “The Irish-Jewish Couple in Feature Films,” a lecture by the historian Lawrence Baron on Irish-Jewish romance in cinema, in the King Juan Carlos I of Spain Center at N.Y.U. 7 p.m. [Free]• “Jazz Then and Now,” a concert by the Manhattan School of Music Jazz Arts Program and a talk on the past, present and future of jazz, at Harlem Stage on Convent Ave. 7:30 p.m. [Free]• The marine researchers Mandë Holford and Mercer R. Brugler join Randy Cohen’s “Person Place Thing” talk show at the American Museum of Natural History on the Upper West Side. 7:30 p.m. [$15]• Mets host Cardinals, 1:10 p.m. Yankees at Blue Jays, 3:37 p.m. Devils host Penguins, 7 p.m. (MSG+).Advertisement• Alternate-side parking is suspended.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.Subway riders: This morning could be your chance to have your thoughts about the trains heard by the people in charge.At 10:30 a.m., Andy Byford, the new president of New York City Transit, will field your questions about the subway, live and online.Mr. Byford will tune in for the Twitter chat from the Rail Control Center — you can follow along on the @NYCTSubway account and use the hashtag #AskNYCT to share your comments.The goal of the session, in the age of seemingly endless subway woes (and more subway woes, and more subway woes, and more subway woes), is to increase transparency and create a conversation between transit leadership and straphangers.The focus of today’s chat will be our subways; the next of the monthly cybergatherings will address your concerns about city buses and paratransit programs.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Wordplay By                     
 DEB AMLEN
 
MARCH 28, 2018
THURSDAY PUZZLE — Watching this pastime of ours — both solving and constructing — pass into the hands of younger generations is always an uplifting experience for me.That doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t acknowledge the shoulders on which they stand or continue to appreciate the work of those who came before, but it’s heartening to see them give new life to our puzzles and take up the constructing mantle. Without them, the craft would be in danger of dying out. With the siren call of entries that resonate with the new generations, we gain new solvers and the puzzling will go on.I had the pleasure of meeting the crossword constructor Claire Muscat at the annual Women Constructors’ Breakfast at this year’s American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. Based on that brief interaction and interactions with other young constructors like her collaborator, David Steinberg, I believe we have no reason to worry about our hobby. It’s in good hands.It took me a lot of staring at the grid to parse this theme (especially before I read the constructor notes).AdvertisementWe have both shaded and circled squares today (depending on your solving format). The theme entries in today’s puzzle contain three different NUTs, including their shells.AdvertisementFor example, at 20A, the answer to “Light deli offering” is LEAN CORNED BEEF. Inside that entry, we have the word ACORN (not necessarily a nut that is typically consumed by humans, but whatever), but it is split by the letter N.What could that mean, I wondered? Are we splitting nuts? Is there such a thing as a broken nut? No, what we are looking at is the entire nut, including the shell. The kernel is the letter that is circled. And if you look at all three of those kernels, they spell out N-U-T.If you’re looking for easy fill-in-the-blank clues to get you started, you might have trouble today. There are a few of them, but their answers do not immediately jump to mind. I found my foothold randomly, with SPF, BAGEL and RCA.5A: You need to be sharp to get “The answer to this clue is located on one.” The answer is EDGE, but I didn’t guess this until I had ED _ _ in the grid.16A: Nice misdirection here. I still have nightmares about failing at lanyard-making in summer camp, but that’s not the kind of craft we’re looking for today. We’re looking for a craft that floats on the water, like that CANOE you paddled at camp.24A: “Dash letters” is not referring to the Morse Code dash, but to a dashboard, and the answer is MPH for miles per hour.30A: I had trouble with this one, mainly because I am woefully uneducated when it comes to my starchy tubers. The word “powdered” in “Powdered ingredient in sweet teas and smoothies” confused me, because I wasn’t expecting TARO as an answer. I thought that TARO root was used to make the “bubbles” or pearls in bubble tea, but that’s tapioca, which is made from yucca. The powdered TARO root is used to thicken and give color to sweet teas and smoothies. You can make your own at home.Advertisement31A: I did not see this one coming. I know enough to expect a suffix when I see a clue like “End to terrorism?” but today’s answer was the second word of the name of an actual terrorist group, AL QAEDA.37A: I am still of the school that believes that plaits are not the same as twists when it comes to hairstyles.2D: Conquering the NEMEAN lion was one of Hercules’ Labors. You can learn more about this mythical beast in our “What the Heck Is That?” series, which includes ways you might see the entry clued.12D: The minute you see that question mark in a clue like “Driving instructor?,” you should be thinking about other kinds of driving you know of besides automotive, because there is definitely wordplay happening here. Golfers also drive their shots, so an instructor in that game would be a GOLF PRO.45D: Once again, watch those question marks. “Like good spellers?” could refer to spelling words, but not with that wordplay indicator. What other kinds of spells do you know? How about the kind that WICCANs might cast?Claire Muscat: The first iteration of this puzzle was actually for a Midi pack that David (who I am lucky enough to have as my constructing mentor and friend) and I constructed this summer. For the themed Midis, we kept the themes pretty simple, so I decided to try a NUTTY-themed puzzle for fun. I was a pretty green constructor at the time, so I accidentally split the grid in half in my attempt to keep the fill clean, not realizing it would be an issue. David got a good kick out of both the silly theme and poorly laid out grid, and so the NUTTY puzzle became a running joke between the two of us.When he sent me an idea for an updated, more sophisticated version of my initial idea, I couldn’t help but laugh about how the infamous NUTTY puzzle had come back to haunt me. However, I couldn’t turn the opportunity down. I loved David’s ingenious idea to have the word NUT enclosed in the “shell” of the themers, and we spent a good amount of Skype hours working on the grid together to reach our final product. The end result is something I think we’re both quite happy with, especially some of the fun fill (PIZZA FACE, GIANT SQUID) that we were able to squeeze in.Most of all, I’m thrilled to be making my New York Times print debut, and am happy to finally be redeemed from my initial attempt. Also, if you haven’t already, please check out Queer Qrosswords, a puzzle pack I am so proud to say I contributed to and whose profits go completely to LGBTQ+ charities. Happy solving!David Steinberg: Always a pleasure to work with Claire! We “met” through the Cruciverb-l mailing list, when I noticed she answered someone’s question about an iffy entry from a millennial’s perspective. Since there are so few young female constructors, I decided to reach out and see if she wanted to collaborate. It turned out that she’d been constructing for a few months but didn’t feel confident enough to submit her work. Claire did send me her earliest constructions to test-solve, though, and I could already see she had talent.Fast forward a year. Claire’s crosswords have appeared in The Los Angeles Times, the A.V. Club, The Orange County Register, The New York Times app, Queer Qrosswords (an LGBTQ crossword pack I highly recommend), and now The New York Times itself. She also has several themelesses in the queue for the new daily 15x15 Puzzle Society Crossword I edit, which appears in The Philadelphia Inquirer, The San Francisco Examiner, and other papers. The creativity and modern vibe that Claire brings to our community is very exciting, and I look forward to watching her continue to blossom!One more quick plug for Erik Agard’s and Will Nediger’s Puzzle Collaboration Society group on Facebook. If you’re a new constructor, there are many wonderful experienced constructors who are eager to connect with you and give you tips! Don’t be a stranger.Almost finished solving but just need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the Crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Ties By                     
SIMONE GORRINDO

MARCH 30, 2018
At story hour in Tacoma, we sit — strangers in a circle — and sing nursery rhymes to our babies. Since my family and I left Georgia, where my husband, Andrew, was stationed for five years with the Army, I have been eagerly anticipating moments like this: communion with like-minded parents, the kind of NPR-listening liberals I’d spent my 20s around in Brooklyn before the Army uprooted me, transforming me into the proverbial stranger in a strange land. But now that I’m here, desperately trying to follow along — Where is thumbkin, where is thumbkin? — I feel utterly out of place.I came to the Wheelock library on a blind mom-date with a clinical psychologist and recent L.A. transplant I met in a Facebook group for Tacoma mothers. I look to her to share a knowing smile — oh boy — but she is serene, playing her role pitch-perfectly as she coos at her baby boy. This mom is shockingly together. She has parenting philosophies, and, what’s more, she acts on them. She practices R.I.E. with her baby, a parenting method based on the concept of treating the baby with dignity and respect.“I don’t distract him during diaper changes,” she explained, “but talk him through the process instead.”When I was pregnant, I thought I’d have philosophies too. But the baby books have remained unread, my lonely days with Fiona so chaotic that my only philosophy, if I have one, is survival.AdvertisementAt story hour, we squeak through “I’m a Little Teapot,” and it’s time for introductions. There’s a blue-haired mom named Virandara in flowing pants; a dad in horn-rimmed glasses feeding his baby pumped milk; a skinny guy with a toothy smile and a T-shirt that says “Kindness Is Everything.” I have forgotten how to make conversation with these people.AdvertisementCould this loneliness, this outsiderness, be a permanent fixture of my identity now? When Andrew made the radical decision to join the Army just before we married, I hadn’t guessed I’d one day be considering this question. I hadn’t anticipated an Army life at all when we fell in love, and yet, when he made the impassioned argument for joining, I wasn’t exactly surprised. My husband is not an easily categorizable man: He’d be equally at home at a gun range and a poetry reading. He found a way to fit in at Fort Benning because he is skilled at negotiating different worlds. He gets lonely too, but he has the architecture of the Army to hold him up, and I’m the home he always returns to.Army wives, on the other hand, are left to erect their own scaffoldings. Andrew is in a rapidly deployable combat unit with backbreaking daily hours. As the saying goes among wives in his unit: “Even when they’re here, they’re not really here.” It is the kind of life that one later apologizes to a spouse for: “I’ll make it up to you,” I watched a soldier say to his wife at his retirement ceremony, his voice breaking.Those wives are the toughest people I’ve ever known. Before we moved, I’d snobbishly envisioned my stint at Fort Benning as a kind of anthropological study, a view into another world.But from almost the moment we arrived, I sensed just how much I’d need these women, so I made every effort to inch my way into their lives. In the beginning, I couldn’t even navigate a conversation with most of them. We had nothing in common; we were separated by the chasms of life experience, education, politics, cultural vocabulary.Still, we forged relationships in the iron of showing up. We flew to emergency rooms, school pickups, maternity wards, kitchen counters. During my high-risk pregnancy with Fiona, Andrew was deployed; I spent so many nights at a friend’s house in those months that my Maps app registered her address as “Home.”My life with the other wives was like life with family: intense, necessary for survival, claustrophobic and never enough. By the time we left Georgia I was hungry for freedom from the Army, so I made sure we lived a freeway ride away from base, in a city full of progressive Seattle transplants. But now, surveying this circle of hip Tacoma strangers, I feel unmoored.The librarian announces the start of “free play,” which means parents can mingle. The guy in the “Kindness Is Everything” shirt approaches. He tells us he is a massage therapist who owns a Pilates studio.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“My wife and I split the child care,” he says.“My husband watches the baby on weekends while I Skype with clients,” the R.I.E. mom offers.AdvertisementI’m alone with Fiona for weeks until my eyes bleed, I want to say, but I don’t think it will play very well in this crowd.The Georgia moms would have related in an instant. Even though I was a mystery to them, arriving childless at 28, they brought me into their fray. I became the de facto babysitter, the honorary aunt at Mother’s Day lunches.They taught me everything I know about parenthood: You get through the days by force of will, by relying not on family or husbands but on friends — and often, brutally, on just yourself. You welcome people’s help with open arms, but recoil from anyone’s pity. And on the overwhelming days, you let your kids cry, walk into the summer heat of the backyard, and chug a beer.You also snuggle them past dawn and nurse them through every sickness and let them sleep in your bed when they cry. You need those kids as much as they need you. They are your anchors. Without them, you might drown or drift away.After free play, my blind date and I walk home, our babies cuddled in carriers. In the past week, spring has come to coastal Washington, the winter rains finally gone. Snowy white blossoms shower the ground and bursts of rhododendron fill front yards. Fiona and I spend our afternoons wandering these cracked sidewalks, peeking in the windows of old Tacoma craftsmen.The mom asks if I’d like to come to Easter brunch at her house.“There will be gluten free options,” she adds nervously.I hesitate.“There will be some really good people,” she says.In Georgia, I went to barbecues with “really good people,” young parents who had climbed out of hard backgrounds and carved out lives for themselves and their children. At first, I’d dreaded these barbecues, until, one day, I stopped dreading them. The wives and I never came to understand each other, really, but we allowed life to happen to us together, appearing on each other’s doorsteps with children in pajamas after blowout fights with husbands, after pipes bursting and miscarriages and late night phone calls alerting us of casualties overseas.Maybe that is all there is to know or understand in any human exchange: the asking to be let in. The vulnerable welcoming of another across our thresholds.It occurs to me that here, now, is an opening. So I might as well walk in.“What should I bring?” I ask, and she smiles.Simone Gorrindo is a writer and book editor living in Tacoma, Wash. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:02 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A satellite company wants to bring reliable internet to airline passengers worldwide. But some investors don't seem to be buying it.Inmarsat's mission to bring wi-fi to passenger jets did instil great faith in some fund managers. But competition has become fierce as cheap financing funded an explosion of new capacity in the sky, and the worry is the project will not be as lucrative as once hoped.It is also difficult to model the payoff from Inmarsat's big investments. Broker Berenberg put the firm's spend in recent years on four of its Global Xpress high-bandwidth global mobile network satellites at about $1.6 billion.Inmarsat, established in 1979 to enable ship-to-shore communication and distress calls, has reduced its dividend to plough money into wi-fi for the world's airlines.AdvertisementIts shares have slumped some 60 percent in the last two years - more than rivals SES and Eutelsat - to their lowest since late 2008.AdvertisementThe company promises higher quality broadband internet than its competitors and seamless connectivity, convinced that far more passengers will sign up if they get what they've paid for - a connection that stays strong and doesn't cut out.But sceptics note free wi-fi is now commonplace on the ground - from coffee shops to airports - and consumers could expect the same for in-flight connectivity (IFC) once the novelty wears off.It would not be the first time a communications company spent heavily on infrastructure only to see the promised returns evaporate because of weak pricing power."They never get off the treadmill of capex," said Eric Moore, an income fund manager at Miton. Moore looked at Inmarsat lots of times but says he has always been "a bit phobic".The bullish case for Inmarsat lies in its focus on mobility.When Inmarsat's equipment aboard a moving plane goes out of range of one of its satellite beams, it quickly finds the next. Some services can struggle to provide a smooth handover.Graphic: Down to earth - https://reut.rs/2GwtKC4Inmarsat's Chief Executive Rupert Pearce said on March 9 that the company had about 30 percent of the IFC market, with systems on 1,300 aircraft due to go into service over the next two years."We have established a strong presence from which to move forward and become the market leader," he said as the company presented annual results.AdvertisementMore than 80 airlines offer in-flight wi-fi, said Routehappy, which provides information on flight amenities, in January.On some aircraft, Turkish Airlines offers free wi-fi to certain customers - those flying in business class, for example. Passengers in economy class pay $9.99 per hour for the service, or $14.99 for a 24-hour package.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Emirates offers 20 MB of wi-fi for free. On Norwegian , free wi-fi is available on many flights.HARD TO QUANTIFYMorgan Stanley, in a March 13 research note, pointed to an Inmarsat document on illustrative cash flows from a typical IFC agreement with airlines. The document forecast negative cash flow for at least three years, worsening in the second and third year, before turning positive in "Year X"."However, management did not comment on when Year X will materialise," the broker said.Jonathan Sinnatt, a representative of Inmarsat in London, said the company would not comment on a broker's note.There are few European equities that appear to divide investors' opinion like Inmarsat.Simon Murphy, who runs the Old Mutual UK Equity Fund, exited the stock late in 2016. Allianz Global Investors' UK Mid Cap fund sold its position last year. Neither Murphy, nor the co-manager of AllianzGI's UK Mid Cap fund, Matthew Hall, are tempted to get back in.Their concerns partly relate to the level of capacity in the satellite industry.Views differ even within Allianz Global Investors itself. Its chief investment officer for UK equities, Simon Gergel, has gradually added to an existing Inmarsat holding in his Allianz UK Equity Income Fund, saying its optimised mobile communications network sets it apart and there was "tremendous demand growth" to fill the new capacity."They've got 1,300 aircraft (signed up) and each of these is expected to pay about $150,000 a year, so you're talking about 200 million of revenue annualised at some point in the future," said Gergel.Despite the dividend cut, Inmarsat's leverage - net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation - is still rising, Morgan Stanley said. The broker does not see the rebased dividend covered by free cash flow until 2021.AdvertisementThe satellite industry is a tough area to map out. Demand can change completely in the several years it takes to build a satellite, put it into space and get a network going. Launch failures are mostly insured against, but can add complications.Tech firms are scouting around for new satellite ventures or alternative airborne communications projects.Softbank invested in low-altitude satellite company OneWeb, Google's Project Loon is exploring communications balloons and Facebook is pushing solar-powered telecom drones for remote regions.Inmarsat cut its final dividend for 2017 to 12 cents a share, giving a total payout for the year of 33.62 cents - down from 54 cents in 2016. The dividend for 2018 will be 20 cents."The fear is that other people are trying to launch satellites to produce (a) global network – but saying one thing, having the capital to do it and having the timeframe to do it, means that Inmarsat have got the first-mover advantage in terms of their global infrastructure," said David Smith, who manages the Henderson High Income Trust, which holds Inmarsat shares.(Reporting by Tricia Wright; editing by Tom Pfeiffer and Alexandra Hudson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PATRICIA MAZZEIMARCH 30, 2018
ORLANDO, Fla. — The acquittal by a federal jury of Noor Salman, the widow of the man who gunned down dozens of people at the Pulse nightclub two years ago, handed federal prosecutors on Friday the rarest of defeats: a loss in a terrorism case.The outcome was even more striking because the not-guilty verdict came from jurors in Orlando, Fla., where Omar Mateen’s rampage left 49 people dead and 53 others injured, the worst terrorist attack on American soil since Sept. 11, 2001.Jurors unanimously rejected government charges that Ms. Salman had helped her husband plan his violent assault in the name of the Islamic State — a narrative countered by her family’s claims that she was kept in the dark about her husband’s secrets and was home sleeping when the attack occurred.To blame for the government’s defeat, said defense lawyers and legal experts who closely followed the trial, was a flimsy circumstantial case that ultimately was unable to persuade jurors during the eight days of trial.AdvertisementTestimony from an F.B.I. agent revealed that prosecutors knew early on, but did not reveal, that one of their crucial initial pieces of evidence — that Ms. Salman had admitted driving by the nightclub with her husband in the days before the attack — most likely did not happen.Prosecutors also faltered when they argued that Ms. Salman had created an alibi for her husband the night of the shooting, telling Mr. Mateen’s mother that he was out to dinner with a friend identified only as Nemo. But that line was Mr. Mateen’s own lie to his wife, defense lawyers argued. They put Nemo on the stand, over prosecutors’ objections, to testify that he knew Mr. Mateen had used him in the past as a cover story to cheat on his wife.“The more we learned, the better Noor Salman looked,” Charles D. Swift, one of her lawyers, told reporters after the verdict was announced.The jury of seven women and five men deliberated a little more than 12 hours before acquitting Ms. Salman on charges of aiding and abetting the commission of a terrorist act and of obstructing justice. She had been accused of giving misleading statements to law enforcement officers who interviewed her after the massacre.Late Friday, the jury foreman said in a statement to The Orlando Sentinel that the verdict did not mean jurors thought Ms. Salman was unaware of Mr. Mateen’s plans.Advertisement“On the contrary, we were convinced she did know,” the foreman told The Sentinel, asking to remain anonymous and saying he was speaking on his own behalf. “She may not have known what day, or what location, but she knew. However, we were not tasked with deciding if she was aware of a potential attack. The charges were aiding and abetting and obstruction of justice.”And on those charges, he said, the jury was presented with “no option” but to acquit.In federal court, where terrorism defendants often accept guilty pleas before going to trial, prosecutors rarely lose cases. A report last year by the Center for National Security at Fordham University School of Law found that, while Islamic State-related cases are more likely to go to trial than federal cases in general, every case that was resolved between March 2014 and August 2017 resulted in a conviction. The national average conviction rate is 92.5 percent, according to the report.But prosecutors generally have been cautious about filing charges against possible accomplices in terrorism cases. Though an accomplice is sometimes the only one left alive to prosecute, such cases can be difficult to prove.“Prosecutors have got a duty not to be caught up in hysteria,” said William N. Nettles, who was the United States attorney in South Carolina when a white supremacist killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston in 2015 and successfully prosecuted a man who had withheld information about that attack.He said prosecutors must guard against allowing public emotion to influence their decisions.“The federal government should never lose a case,” Mr. Nettles said. “Prosecutors should never lose. They pick the fight, they pick the day the fight happens, they’ve got the best investigative capabilities in the world. It should always be an embarrassment for the government to lose.”After the verdict, two of Ms. Salman’s defense lawyers, Charles D. Swift and Linda Moreno, said in an interview that prosecutors had offered their client a plea deal in the weeks leading up to the trial but she had refused to accept it, insisting on her innocence.The 31-year-old defendant wiped tears from her eyes after the verdict on the first charge was read. By the time the judge’s clerk finished, Ms. Salman openly sobbed, hugging her lawyers and burying her face in their arms. They, too, wept. She later left the courthouse with Fritz Scheller, another one of her lawyers.A spokeswoman for the Salman family said Ms. Salman plans to return to California, where she had been living before her arrest in January 2017, to be with her 5-year-old son. She had faced a sentence of up to life in prison if convicted.Advertisement“I don’t know how she’s going to make up for two years,” said Al Salman, one of her uncles, who sat two rows behind his niece during the trial. He said he intends to hire a therapist to help Ms. Salman rebuild her life.Families of the Pulse victims sat in stone-faced silence as the verdict was announced. They walked out of the federal courthouse in downtown Orlando as a group, some of them wearing dark sunglasses, without saying a word.After news of the verdict spread, a small group gathered outside Pulse, which has remained shuttered since the shooting, holding signs declaring, “We will not let hate win.”“Those of us directly affected by this tragedy must find peace in our hearts and remember that he was the one who pulled the trigger that night,” Barbara Poma, the nightclub owner and founder of a foundation for the victims, said in a statement, referring to Mr. Mateen. “This verdict cannot and will not divide us.”In one of the deadliest mass shootings in American history, Omar Mateen killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando. Here’s how that attack unfolded.The prosecutors, James D. Mandolfo and Sara C. Sweeney, declined to comment, other than to thank jurors for their work and say they respected their decision.From the start, Ms. Salman had insisted she had nothing to do with her husband’s rampage. The prosecution built a convincing case that Mr. Mateen methodically made arrangements for the attack, apparently inspired by the Islamic State propaganda he obsessively consumed online — including a video he watched weeks before the shooting urging bloodshed against Americans during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.The burden on prosecutors after that was high: They had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Ms. Salman knowingly and willfully helped or tried to help Mr. Mateen commit an act that would provide material support to the Islamic State. Merely being his wife or unwittingly assisting her husband was not enough, said Joshua L. Dratel, a New York lawyer experienced in defending terrorism cases.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“You have to share the intent of the actor,” Mr. Dratel said. “You have to do something to make the crime succeed — not do something that makes the crime succeed without knowing that the crime is going to occur. You have to have both of those elements.”Prosecutors did not have to prove a motive, though Ms. Sweeney, an assistant United States attorney, said in her closing argument on Wednesday that Ms. Salman could have aided Mr. Mateen out of love, money or spite. But while Mr. Mateen’s internet browsing and social media records showed intense radicalization, there was no similar history for Ms. Salman. In fact, twice on Facebook she criticized Islamic terrorists, at one point calling them bad Muslims.Advertisement“In today’s world, to have a case like that where you have access to all the social media, you have access to the phones, you have access to the computers — all of that, and you don’t have a specific piece of evidence pointing to her intent? You don’t have a case,” Mr. Dratel said.In her supposed confession, Ms. Salman told F.B.I. agents that she and Mr. Mateen had scouted Pulse as a target for the June 12, 2016, attack, yet investigators apparently knew just days later that there was no evidence to corroborate that. That false statement in her confession called into question the rest of what she told law enforcement over more than 11 hours of questioning without a lawyer present. The F.B.I. made no audio or video recordings of the interview. The jury foreman told The Sentinel that he wished a recording had been available.“Twenty years ago, not everybody who you ran into had a digital recorder in their pocket, and we didn’t have ‘CSI’ shows, and we didn’t expect to have everything on tape for us to see,” said David S. Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor in Miami who is now a defense lawyer. “But that’s what we expect now. If there isn’t a picture, it didn’t happen. So the fact that they didn’t record the confession helped to raise this reasonable doubt as to what was being said.”The final coup for the defense came during the prosecution’s closing argument, when Ms. Sweeney for the first time suggested that the reason Ms. Salman told F.B.I. agents that she and Mr. Mateen had driven by Pulse was because she incorrectly thought the nightclub was at the Disney Springs shopping and entertainment complex, formerly known as Downtown Disney, which the couple did visit.Offering an especially chilling detail, Ms. Sweeney suggested that Mr. Mateen bought a baby carriage and doll at a Walmart the night before the massacre so that he could conceal his AR-15 assault rifle and draw no suspicion as he walked toward Disney Springs, which prosecutors believe was his original intended target.Prosecutors had never before assigned any importance to the stroller, which Mr. Mateen bought alone, while Ms. Salman was miles away, shopping with his credit card. Mr. Swift said in an interview that it showed his client was not in the loop and her husband had intentionally kept his plot from her.“Doesn’t it make more sense to got to the Walmart with his wife for a baby carriage?” he asked. “If she is aiding and abetting, then why isn’t she with him? If she was there, she might have questioned him: Why do we need a baby carriage? Their kid did not need a stroller.”The defense asked for a mistrial this week after prosecutors disclosed that Mr. Mateen’s father, Seddique Mateen, had been an F.B.I. informer at various times from January 2005 to the time of the attack. He is now under criminal investigation for financial transfers to Turkey and Afghanistan he made shortly before the shooting. Defense lawyers argued that the elder Mateen’s relationship with the F.B.I. should have been disclosed early on in the case.“Mistakes were made by everybody, but nobody would admit to them,” Mr. Swift said. “Mistakes were made by the interrogators, and by the original people who looked at Mateen, and the prosecution. At every level.”Advertisement“Salman was a solution to all their mistakes,” he added. “But the jury didn’t buy it.”Follow Patricia Mazzei on Twitter: @PatriciaMazzei.Adam Goldman and Alan Blinder contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Orlando Gunman’s Wife Is Acquitted in Shootings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
MARCH 30, 2018
Updated, 1:35 p.m.Boker Tov leKulam. (Good morning everyone.)Passover begins tonight, and if you’re picking up supplies for your Seder, we thought you should know: There is such a thing as matzo hierarchy.“The top is handmade shmurah matzo, then there is machine-made shmurah matzo, and after that is regular machine-made matzo,” according to Rabbi Motti Seligson, a spokesman for Chabad-Lubavitch.(There’s room for debate; ask tonight’s Seder guests their matzo preferences or the best way to eat it, and you’ll be there until Easter Sunday.)Passover commemorates Jewish liberation from slavery in Egypt, and matzo represents a sliver of that Exodus — the Jews fled so quickly, the Torah tells us, that there was no time for their bread to rise. For that reason, observers refrain from eating bread (and other leavened goods, chametz) during the holiday.AdvertisementHence, matzo.But what separates shmurah — which the rabbi called “the Bentley of matzo” — from other popular options, like Streit’s, the purveyor that not long ago closed its longstanding flagship on the Lower East Side, is that shmurah matzo is rabbinically supervised at every step, from farmer to field to factory.Advertisement(Shmurah means “watched” or “guarded.” To uphold Passover traditions and kosher law, rabbis will inspect the produce, ensuring that the matured wheat has not come in contact with water and that no natural fermentation has occurred.)At a time when people care increasingly about how their food is sourced — Is it “natural”? Is it organic? Is it fraudulent? — this closely scrutinized class of matzo is seeing a resurgence in New York, Rabbi Seligson said.It first became popular in New York in the 1950s, he explained, when the rebbe of the Lubavitcher group of Hasidic Jews, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, one of the most influential Jewish leaders of the 20th century, whose following was rooted in Crown Heights, launched a campaign encouraging residents, congregations and bakeries — in Brooklyn and around the world — to offer shmurah matzo.Decades later, the tradition long cherished by Orthodox communities is gaining traction with less religious, more secular groups, Rabbi Seligson said. Case in point: The Obama Seder, the first presidential Seder, reportedly had shmurah matzo.Here’s what else is happening:Where Friday is lacking, the weekend weather will pick up the slack.We may have rain today, but we’ll have a sunny Seder on Saturday and a clear Easter on Sunday.Temperatures should stay in the 50s, so get ready to swap in that leather jacket you’ve been itching to show off.• Joseph P. Ganim went from being the mayor of Bridgeport, Conn., to a convict in prison, then back to mayor. Now, he’s aiming for the governor’s office. [New York Times]• A federal judge allowed a lawsuit to preserve the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, to continue, citing President Trump’s “overtly bigoted statements.” [New York Times]Advertisement• Scott Stringer, the city comptroller, is making a rumble in the 2021 mayoral election through two big endorsements. [New York Times]• How can Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo open the door for more donations? By rewriting the disclaimer language on his website that describes who can donate. [New York Times]• Word spread that the restaurant El Quijote, long regarded as a hidden gem, will be closing its doors for renovations. Crowds gathered for their last meal. [New York Times]• The city’s commissioner of child welfare is trying to improve operations, and, in turn, repair the image of the troubled agency. [New York Times]• A psychiatrist that testified at the trial of the nanny who killed two children in her care believes that the nanny was unaware of the brutal action she was committing. [New York Times]• Rusty Staub, one of the most durable hitters of his time and a former Met, died at 73. [New York Times]• If you want to feel like a spy, there is an espionage museum in Manhattan that could give you the experience. [New York Times]Advertisement• An attorney in Queens is being charged with asylum fraud and making false statements on applications for clients. [Sunnyside Post]• The state’s Department of Transportation wants to develop a highway ramp between Hunts Point and the Bronx River. Residents of the South Bronx neighborhood are calling for the governor to step in. [Streetsblog NYC]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Out of the Storm.”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.•  School’s out! Nature Week, eight days of family-friendly activities exploring the environment and life sciences, begins at the Brooklyn Children’s Museum. Times vary. [$11]• The New York International Auto Show continues at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, through April 8. 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. [Ticket prices vary]• Kreuther Handcrafted Chocolate hosts an Easter egg hunt — for eggs filled with chocolate prizes — in and around Manhattan’s Bryant Park. Noon, through Saturday. [Free]• “On Black Performance: When There Is No Other Ontology than the Stage, Staging and Being Staged,” a discussion on performance art, at the School of Visual Arts in Chelsea. 7 p.m. [Free]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• “Melania: The Music, The Mem’ries, The Magic,” a singalong comedy show about the first lady, at the Peoples Improv Theater in Flatiron. 9 p.m. [$10]• Islanders host Maple Leafs, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers host Lightning, 7 p.m. (MSG). Yankees at Blue Jays, 7:07 p.m.Advertisement• Watch “The New York Times Close Up,” featuring The Times’s Op-Ed columnist Nicholas Kristof and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV.• Alternate-side parking is suspended.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday• Easter egg hunts on Staten Island and in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens. Times and prices vary.• A papermaking workshop, using confetti gathered from the Lunar New Year firecracker ceremonies, at the Museum of Chinese in America in Chinatown. 1 p.m. [$12; sign up here]• The Metropolitan Opera’s production of Mozart’s “Così Fan Tutte,” set in 1950s Coney Island, continues at Lincoln Center on the Upper West Side. 1 p.m. [Tickets start at $130]• “Harbortown,” an evening of songs about Staten Island by the musician Bob Wright and others, at Guyon Tavern in Historic Richmond Town on Staten Island. 6 and 8 p.m. [$16]• New York Red Bulls at Orlando City S.C., 1 p.m. (MLS LIVE). Mets host Cardinals, 1:10 p.m. Yankees at Blue Jays, 4:07 p.m. Knicks host Pistons, 5 p.m. (MSG). Islanders vs. Devils, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers at Hurricanes, 7 p.m. (MSG 2). Nets at Heat, 8 p.m. (YES). New York City F.C. at San Jose Earthquakes, 8 p.m. (ESPN2).Sunday• Smorgasburg, the open-air food market, returns for the season to Breeze Hill in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park. 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.Advertisement• Watch some “Magic at Coney” at the Coney Island Museum in Brooklyn. Noon. [Tickets start at $5]• On Easter, “a propitious date for resurrection,” the Morbid Anatomy Library unveils its new home, the 1877 Fort Hamilton Gate House, at an open house in Brooklyn’s Green-Wood Cemetery. Noon to 5 p.m. [Free]• The annual Orchid Show continues with “Fantastically Fragrant Orchids,” a demonstration on orchid care, at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. Times vary. [$25]• Yankees at Blue Jays, 1:07 p.m. Mets host Cardinals, 1:10 p.m. Nets host Pistons, 6 p.m. (YES). Devils at Canadiens, 7 p.m. (MSG+).• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.It’s a gray Friday, but it’s a Good Friday.The annual Way of the Cross procession, a tradition in our city since 1996, will cross from Brooklyn to Manhattan this morning, making stops at several prominent sites for readings and performances.It begins at Cathedral Basilica of St. James in Downtown Brooklyn at 10 a.m., continuing to the Brooklyn Bridge, City Hall Park and Zuccotti Park before reaching its final destination, at St. Peter’s Church in Lower Manhattan, three hours later.The walk drew nearly 3,000 participants last year; those joining today will be accompanied by John Bartlett, a retired firefighter from Staten Island who will be carrying the cross; the bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn; the archbishop of New York; and other religious leaders.Advertisement(Reading from outside New York? There will be similar processions in more than a dozen cities nationwide today.)New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By WILLIAM L. HAMILTONMARCH 29, 2018
“Hello Bill Hamilton.” The silver kiosk displayed its welcome when I swiped the black wristband that was my admission ticket.The days of slipping through the back of a tailor’s shop are long gone.I was standing before the first of 12 information-gathering sentinels at Spyscape, a $50 million, 60,000-square-foot spying and espionage museum, which opened recently in mid-Manhattan.With leading questions and embarrassing exercises, the kiosks were assessing me — personality traits, risk tolerance and I.Q. — to construct a profile of the kind of spy I might best be.Spyscape is the newest unhidden headquarters of our cultural fascination with the art of deception, two levels inside a nondescript glass-box building on 8th Avenue at 55th Street. Its dark, labyrinthine interior landscape was designed by David Adjaye, the architect of the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C.AdvertisementThe kiosk would like me to agree or disagree with a few statements.“I’ll say anything to get what I want,” it declared in a light tone of conspiracy. I gave that idea a dissembling 3 on a scale of 1 to 5, from “strongly disagree” to “strongly agree.”Advertisement“I’m willing to be unethical if I believe it will help me succeed.” I squashed that with a 1. “I keep others at a distance.” Well, now that you mention it: 4.“This is like dating,” I said to Aaron Moody, a visitor services associate.In fact, espionage may be bigger than courtship on social media right now, with Facebook at the center of a growing controversy over the use of personal data during elections, and the park-bench poisoning of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter drawing international censure. Seismic private-information hacks reveal themselves with regularity, in government and business. We accept drone-patrolled, surveillance-prying public space. Cyber warfare has come of age, and the Cold War is back.“Scary biscuits,” as the English say.“I thought that spy stories were really a thing of the ’70s,” Mr. Adjaye said in an interview. “And here we are at this time, that actually spying is back.”Asked how confident he was in the security of his own personal information, on a scale of 1 to 10 — with 10 being most secure — Mr. Adjaye said, “Three.”What is it about the shadows of deception that excites our participation and not our fear? The International Spy Museum in Washington, with its impressive collection of spy artifacts, will be moving to a greatly expanded facility next year. A new National Museum of Intelligence and Special Operations, under development in Ashburn, Va., is expected to open in 2020.Conceived as an entertainment attraction, Spyscape’s $39 experience ($32 for children ages 3 to 12 — bring them; you’ll need them) is a cultural chimera: part museum, part ride. It was created by Archimedia, a London-based private investment group that has been a developer in resorts, restaurants, and spy-themed film productions like the television adaptation of John le Carré’s “The Night Manager.”Spyscape’s immersive experience begins in the outsize elevator, which makes a slow three-minute ascent. The Briefing Lift, as it’s called, delivers the visitor into Spyscape’s realm with a three-walled video created by Territory Studio in London, which worked on “Blade Runner 2049.”AdvertisementThe doors open; you have arrived at the 25-foot-high “city within a city,” as Mr. Adjaye calls the main floor: seven galleries presenting themes like encryption and special ops. In addition to a curated collection of objects, there are 141 live screens, 317 speakers, 113 live cameras and 32 projectors telling Spyscape’s stories. There are also games called “challenges” and the kiosks.The stories are all real-life — no fictional spies like James Bond. The “Encryption” gallery tells the story of Alan Turing and Joan Clarke, the cryptanalysts of World War II, who cracked the German Enigma code; Virginia Hall in “Special Ops,” the woman with one leg who operated in occupied France and was called “the scourge of the Gestapo”; Edward Snowden in “Surveillance.” There is an actual Enigma machine, and a replica you can code on. “Encryption” closes with a present-day warning.“The Enigma story shows no code is 100 percent foolproof.” And, “WikiLeaks revealed that the C.I.A. can’t break WhatsApp — yet. Every intelligence service is on the case trying to.”Scary biscuits.I am inside a black booth, facing a black-glass monitor. There is a heartbeat playing. Or are my ears pounding? Nick Ryan, a sound artist whose clients have included Tate Britain in London, designed Spyscape’s aural landscape, which is as originally and meticulously rendered as Mr. Adjaye’s architecture.“Hello Bill Hamilton. Welcome to Deception.”I am being tested for how well I lie and how well I detect lies. I stare at a grid on the monitor, which registers my face, and begins a live feed of me at the bottom. I put my fingertip on a red sensor, which takes my pulse.“Have you ever been to space? What did you like about it?”“Yes. It wasn’t New York,” I lie. The screen replays my face. My eyes are blinking like signal lamps.“People blink more when lying,” the booth says empathetically. It knows I know I’ve failed.Spyscape’s experience is mildly paranoiac, but it is never deadly dark. Its affirmative message — on T-shirts and tote bags — is “Question Everything.” Be your own information gatherer. Who would argue with that? There are no rendition programs or extraditions here. (Shelby Prichard, Spyscape’s chief of staff, who previously worked for the 9/11 Museum, said that the information gathered here was not shared externally or sold.)In a timely way, Spyscape shows us what we know, but choose to ignore: that espionage and spying are not only the stuff of extraordinary tales or specialists’ tools. They are the “enemies among us” — the CCTVs, the closed-circuit tracking systems, the browser cookies. There is a double agent in every pocket. “Mobile phones are the most powerful spy devices of all,” the Briefing Lift explains.AdvertisementHakeen Betts, the retail associate who sold me John le Carré’s “The Pigeon Tunnel” in Spyscape’s exhaustive bookshop, told me that on a visit, his 10-year-old son was evaluated and told he was a “spymaster,” based on his performance with the interactivities.All 10-year-olds are spymasters now. At the Encryption challenge, large horizontal touch screens, which look like naval charting tables, test your ability to grasp ciphers quickly. (It reminded me of dealing with an iOS update). A girl wearing a sparkling ballet skirt and sequined cat’s ears explained ciphers to her befuddled father: “Here’s how you do it.”Swipe. “Hello Bill Hamilton.”I am at the door of a laser tunnel. I step through. The tunnel is studded with unlighted buttons. I hit the red start button. “Welcome to Special Ops. Avoid the lasers. Good luck.”The buttons turn bright white. Smoke hisses in. Loud music, with a “There he is — grab him!” mania to it. The tunnel is now a spider’s web of laser beams. I have 90 seconds to punch as many buttons as I can, deactivating them, without hitting a laser beam, which deducts 5 seconds from the running clock. I break into a sweat so hard I can hear it. And that’s the last thing I remember.Two men rolled out laughing from other tunnels. Competing in side-by-side chambers, they scored a 165 and a 140. I am the spy who came in from the cold, really slowly. 95.Spyscape’s last chamber is Debrief. On the black-screened walls, streams of information glow. Visitors are given their analyses and told what spy roles they might play.My screen says some conciliatory things, a kind of ‘‘you were second on the list, really” that I recognize from human resources officers.“You take risks after careful consideration.” Thank you. “You are mathematical.” Uh, ok. It’s never seen my SATs. “You are very precise in your work.” Nice — tell my editor.Advertisement“Bill Hamilton, you are a cryptologist.”In three tries, over three visits, I am repeatedly a cryptologist, passed over for ‘‘intelligence operative,’’ ‘‘spycatcher’’ and other action roles I coveted. No rooftop motorcycle chases, perfect cocktails or brand placement. A desk job. If I couldn’t crack my own code, how good could I be?Michael Amendola, an assistant theater producer I met in the gift shop, told me Spyscape had decided he was a “hacker” — a risk-taker. He praised the museum’s immersive nature.“I loved the code breaking, I loved the laser exhibition,” Mr. Amendola said, adding that he learned a great deal, too. He compared Spyscape to a recent visit to the Museum of Sex on lower Fifth Avenue. “It’s an interesting concept,” Mr. Amendola said of MoSex, “but I thought it felt a little underwhelming.”If you can beat sex, you’re in like Flint.Spyscape928 Eighth Avenue212-549-1941; spyscape.comA version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page C11 of the New York edition with the headline: A Place to Come In From the Cold.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By AUDRA D. S. BURCHMARCH 30, 2018
KATY, Tex. — When Hurricane Harvey struck Houston, floodwaters swept through Eileen and Jeff Swanson’s two-story brick home, blanketing the first floor in muck and nearly destroying a domestic existence 12 years in the making. Their china cabinet, in the family for three generations, was reduced to a sodden mess. A couch, once a soft red, had blushed into a watery burgundy; the carpet squished like grass at the bottom of a marsh. A dirty foot-high water line ran wall to wall, marking the local crest of an event that the National Weather Service called “the most significant tropical cyclone rainfall event in United States history.”After the floodwaters receded, the Swansons returned to a house ravaged, endless questions, few answers — and a looming decision.They are not alone. Hundreds of homeowners in Canyon Gate at Cinco Ranch, a quiet subdivision in a west Houston suburb, are mired in a slow, frustrating effort to rebuild. Others have formed an uneasy exodus, their attachment to familiar places and routines irreparably battered by a storm that dumped 50-plus inches and caused widespread flooding. They are now selling their gutted homes at well below pre-storm prices.The fundamental decision — stay or go — is one being faced by homeowners all around the Houston area. As climate change increases the frequency and intensity of storms like Harvey, no neighborhood is immune from being flooded again. But the Swansons and other homeowners in Canyon Gate face a far more certain prospect: Their neighborhood is on land that was designed to be flooded. It is part of a reservoir that was built by the United States Army Corps of Engineers in the 1940s to prevent catastrophic flooding downtown, a fact that developers did little to publicize when they built Canyon Gate in the 1990s.
            Stories in this series examine the fallout from Hurricane Harvey in a Houston neighborhood that’s destined to flood again.        On a blistering September afternoon at the Swanson house, 20 box fans and an industrial blower ran nonstop in a battle against rot and decay. The family was still consigned to five rooms upstairs, and Ms. Swanson, 48, a senior executive assistant at an industrial automation company, was downstairs watching a YouTube demonstration of how to hang wallboard. At the top of the steps, Mr. Swanson, 52, was compiling a mental to-do list: Make another trip to Home Depot, haul more stuff to the storage unit, get back in time to help with the delivery of a stack of new wallboard. Their 23-year-old son Allen, who is severely developmentally disabled, was watching television. It was already a familiar routine. “It feels like our life is somewhere between, ‘Where do I start?’ and ‘Why isn’t this getting done?’” Mr. Swanson said.AdvertisementThere was a lot keeping the Swansons in Canyon Gate. They had paid off the house, purchased in 2006 for $225,000, just a few months before the flood. That freed them from a monthly mortgage. The home was close to their younger son Nick’s school and in a neighborhood they loved, and they had adapted the space to suit Allen’s disabilities — he has seizures, so they needed open areas where they could watch him from other parts of the house. In a hundred different ways, floods or no floods, this was their home.AdvertisementAnd yet the case for leaving was clear. Two weeks before the floods, Mr. Swanson had quit his job as a security guard, with the intention of looking for work without so many late hours. The Swansons had some savings, but the money was meant to pay for Nick, 17, a high school junior, to attend college. With only one income, there was little money left over for repairs and renovations that would cost upward of $60,000.Hanging over the entire process was the knowledge that a similar — or even worse — flood could hit again, possibly even as soon as the next hurricane season. “I am pretty sure we would not have moved into this house if we knew,” Ms. Swanson said.Hugh Durlam knew he was staying. As a 13-year resident and former homeowners association board member, Mr. Durlam was completely invested in Canyon Gate. But he wanted to know what happened to others in the neighborhood. So on the Canyon Gate Facebook page he administers, he recently posted a survey asking homeowners if renovations were completed or close to completion, if they were still rebuilding, or if they had not yet started.Of the 202 responses, all but two were involved in some kind of renovation.“This is going to be a brand-new 20-year-old community. It’s worth saving,” said Mr. Durlam, who works for a Houston engineering firm. He supports a plan to deepen the reservoir and build a levee to protect the neighborhood, he said, “something that should have been done a long time ago.”Christina Raena Micu isn’t certain about what to do next. When Harvey hit, she anxiously watched television footage of the storm from a Dallas hotel room, where she had taken shelter with her husband and two of her three children. Her 20-year-old son had stayed behind, sending dispatches as the waters invaded their neighborhood, before finally evacuating in chest-deep water with only a backpack.Inside Ms. Micu’s home, everything on the first floor was submerged within or floating atop a couple of feet of muddy water. When she returned from Dallas, she rushed to her bedroom hoping her collection of childhood photos had somehow survived. She had left the photo albums in a pile on the carpeted floor with plans to one day organize them on a bookshelf. They were stuck together, the images swirled into watercolor blurs, too damaged to save. But what she saw next was more immediately concerning: mold.“I have a 5-year-old son with asthma who has already been hospitalized once for it,” she said. “I can’t just move back in. It’s much more complicated than that for me.”AdvertisementAfter she moved her family into an apartment about 10 minutes away, signing a one-year lease with some financial assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Ms. Micu, a real estate investor, embarked on a monthslong renovation of her flood-soaked home, ripping out the floors and walls and repeatedly treating the house with mold bombs, foggers and air purifiers.Almost every day, Ms. Micu weighed her choices. Some days, she was sure she would stay. The house was in a safe neighborhood, roomy with a swing set in the backyard. Before the storm, she was even planning an addition. Other days, she knew moving was her only choice. Both options were expensive. Selling meant taking a big hit: She paid $183,000 for the house six years ago and figured it was not worth much more than half of that now. But for as long as they lived in their temporary apartment, she was paying rent and a mortgage. FEMA gave her about $16,000, but the renovation bids were all around $70,000.By the time the four-bedroom house passed a mold test in February, Ms. Micu was thinking that she might split the difference. Move her family elsewhere, but keep the house as a rental. “With my son’s immune system, I can’t have a situation where the mold is a trigger,” said Ms. Micu, a Houston native whose parents are Filipino immigrants. “I can’t take the chance.”Something else was nagging Ms. Micu. She wondered how the subdivisions could have been built in a reservoir. And if they had to be sacrificed, shouldn’t the homeowners be compensated?“This pushed our lives in another path,” she said. “How could we have known that we would return from Dallas and practically have to start over?”The questions are what pushed her to look for a law firm. In September, she became one of the lead plaintiffs in a federal class-action suit against the Army Corps of Engineers.“Harvey took away my photo album with pictures from every year of my life. It took so many things. It took the purse that my husband bought me as a gift. He spent three months looking for it,” she said.“Harvey took away my sense of security, but so did the Army Corps of Engineers. What happened to us was wrong.”AdvertisementWhen Paulette Delynn Archer, 70, greets a visitor in the doorway of her one-story brick house, she is framed by large picture windows that reveal the emptiness inside, where flooding and renovation have left little more than wood studs between the front door and the back patio.“Come in, let me show you the house,” Ms. Archer offered in a cheery voice that soon gave way to silence. “Well, this used to be my house. Now it’s just a shell.”Ms. Archer had once delighted in having guests over to see her four-bedroom home, where everything was the color of soft gold or pumpkin. This is where she had raised her only son, where her husband and mother spent their final days, where she had planned to spend her remaining days. But the four feet of mud and water that gushed through the house had demanded something radically different.Two decades ago, Ms. Archer and her husband had paid roughly $200,000 for the house and watched it appreciate to more than $300,000. She said it would cost well over $100,000 to renovate the house and her FEMA grant would only cover a small fraction.After Hurricane Harvey hit, these communities, built in what is called a flood pool, were sacrificed to save the city of Houston. We followed homeowners as they decided whether to cut their losses or rebuild, knowing it could happen again.In the mornings, while staying at a La Quinta Inn, Ms. Archer would make lists in a blue three-ring binder of items lost, mostly items that came to her in her dreams. “I finally stopped trying to sum up my entire life. It was just too stressful. But that list told me that as much as I loved my house, there was no way out of this but to sell,” said Ms. Archer, who spent the first part of her career as a flight attendant then became a police officer for the Port of Houston Authority. “I couldn’t get a loan at my age and with no job. How would I pay it back?”She had lost everything once before, as a teenager in a house fire. The crushing loss felt the same; the inability to recover felt far different.Like other homeowners, Ms. Archer said she had no idea the house was built in a reservoir. She was told over and over that she did not need flood insurance, she said. Two or three times she purchased it anyway and then let the policy expire.Three years earlier, she had taken out a reverse mortgage, which allows homeowners over 62 years old to convert equity into cash. After the flood, her house was worth less than the loan balance. It left her in a terrible bind. “I am sitting here thinking that I am not going to be able to get out of this situation,” she said.
                Most residents whose homes flooded during Hurricane Harvey had no clue that their gated community was built in an area prone to such damage in extreme storms.            She eventually negotiated with the lender to offer the house as a short sale for $125,000. Earlier this month, Ms. Archer closed on the sale and walked away for good. Now fearful of floods and the sound of hard rain, she plans to move near a nephew in Dallas, where she will re-enter the job market 10 years after her retirement.Advertisement“There is no way I could have imagined I would be starting over at this point in my life,” she said, then sighed deeply. “I know everything will be O.K. Eventually.”On a fall afternoon, as they were in the garage sorting the few salvageable pieces — the roar of trucks carting debris in the distance — Mr. Swanson turned to Ms. Swanson, his wife of 24 years.“I don’t want to leave. Do you?” he blurted out. Ms. Swanson shook her head. Neither did she.For the Swansons, rebuilding was the only choice. They knew it would be hard, but this was home.Instead of returning to work, Mr. Swanson pitched in on the repairs. “For now,” Ms. Swanson said, “it make more sense for Jeff to be home helping with the house rather than to be on a job making $12 an hour.” The couple also bought flood insurance.In October, they received a FEMA grant for about $10,300, part of the more than $91 million the federal agency distributed in Fort Bend County. They also received donated kitchen countertops and cabinets through a state program and a $25,000 grant from Fort Bend Recovers, a local public-private disaster assistance coalition, for construction costs. There was still a gap, but it was manageable, and less than the cost of a new house and mortgage.The numbers made sense, but Mr. Swanson said he also had a more personal reason for staying.“It took me this many years to finally become a Texan,” he said. “Harvey is not going to run us away.”Stories in this series examine the fallout from Hurricane Harvey in a Houston neighborhood that’s destined to flood again. Check out a video, a graphic, and stories about who benefits.A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: A Grim Choice: Sell at a Loss Or Stay at Risk?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SEWELL CHANMARCH 30, 2018
Nearly all applicants for a visa to enter the United States — an estimated 14.7 million people a year — will be asked to submit their social media user names for the past five years, under proposed rules that the State Department issued on Friday.Last September, the Trump administration announced that applicants for immigrant visas would be asked for social media data, a plan that would affect 710,000 people or so a year. The new proposal would vastly expand that order to cover some 14 million people each year who apply for nonimmigrant visas.The proposal covers 20 social media platforms. Most of them are based in the United States: Facebook, Flickr, Google+, Instagram, LinkedIn, Myspace, Pinterest, Reddit, Tumblr, Twitter, Vine and YouTube. But several are based overseas: the Chinese sites Douban, QQ, Sina Weibo, Tencent Weibo and Youku; the Russian social network VK; Twoo, which was created in Belgium; and Ask.fm, a question-and-answer platform based in Latvia.During his campaign, President Trump promised “extreme vetting” of people seeking to enter the United States, and last March the State Department directed consular officers worldwide to step up scrutiny of visa applicants.AdvertisementBut the new proposal would add a tangible new requirement for millions of people who apply to visit the United States for business or pleasure, including citizens of such countries as Brazil, China, India and Mexico.AdvertisementCitizens of roughly 40 countries to which the United States ordinarily grants visa-free travel will not be affected by the requirement. Those countries include major allies like Australia, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and South Korea.In addition, visitors traveling on diplomatic and official visas will mostly be exempted.As news of the plan emerged on Friday, so did criticism.“This attempt to collect a massive amount of information on the social media activity of millions of visa applicants is yet another ineffective and deeply problematic Trump administration plan,” said Hina Shamsi, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s National Security Project. “It will infringe on the rights of immigrants and U.S. citizens by chilling freedom of speech and association, particularly because people will now have to wonder if what they say online will be misconstrued or misunderstood by a government official.”Anil Kalhan, an associate professor of law at Drexel University who works on immigration and international human rights, wrote on Twitter, “This is unnecessarily intrusive and beyond ridiculous.”Facebook said its position had not changed since last year, when it said: “We oppose any efforts to force travelers at the border to turn over their private account information, including passwords.”Along with the social media information, visa applicants will be asked for past passport numbers, phone numbers and email addresses; for records of international travel; whether they have been deported or removed, or violated immigration law, in the past; and whether relatives have been involved in terrorist activities.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Maintaining robust screening standards for visa applicants is a dynamic practice that must adapt to emerging threats,” the State Department said in a statement. “We already request limited contact information, travel history, family member information, and previous addresses from all visa applicants. Collecting this additional information from visa applicants will strengthen our process for vetting these applicants and confirming their identity.”Millions of people each year complete the online application for a nonimmigrant visa, known as the DS-160. It takes about 90 minutes to fill out, according to the department.AdvertisementThe San Bernardino, Calif., terrorist attack in 2015, which killed 14 people, focused attention on immigrants’ social-media use, after officials acknowledged that they had missed signs of online radicalization in an online-messaging platform used by the husband and wife who carried out the attack.Last year, John F. Kelly, who was then the secretary of homeland security and is now Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, told members of Congress that his department was considering asking visitors for passwords and access to online accounts.“We want to get on their social media, with passwords,” Mr. Kelly told members of the House Homeland Security Committee. “If they don’t want to cooperate, then you don’t come in.”So far, the government has stopped short of demanding passwords, though travelers have reported being asked for them, on a sporadic basis, at airports and other ports of entry. By some measures, the number of international visitors to the United States has begun to slip, although foreign tourism to New York City set a record last year.The new State Department requirements will not take effect immediately. The proposal set off a 60-day period for public comment, which ends on May 29.On Sina Weibo, one of China’s largest social media platforms, several users were critical of the plan.“Does it mean someone’s visa application will likely be rejected if he/she has been critical of the U.S.?” one wrote. “What about your sacred ‘freedom of speech?’”Another user wrote: “We Chinese have learned well enough the lessons to be drawn from isolation. Now it’s America’s turn.”Audrey Jiajia Li contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: 14 Million Visitors a Year Could Face Social-Media Screening by the U.S.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JACK NICASMARCH 30, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Two days after Donald J. Trump won the 2016 election, executives at Google consoled their employees in an all-staff meeting broadcast around the world.“There is a lot of fear within Google,” said Sundar Pichai, the company’s chief executive, according to a video of the meeting viewed by The New York Times. When asked by an employee if there was any silver lining to Mr. Trump’s election, the Google co-founder Sergey Brin said, “Boy, that’s a really tough one right now.” Ruth Porat, the finance chief, said Mr. Trump’s victory felt “like a ton of bricks dropped on my chest.” Then she instructed members of the audience to hug the person next to them.Sixteen months later, Google’s parent company, Alphabet, has most likely saved billions of dollars in taxes on its overseas cash under a new tax law signed by Mr. Trump. Alphabet also stands to benefit from the Trump administration’s looser regulations for self-driving cars and delivery drones, as well as from proposed changes to the trade pact with Mexico and Canada that would limit Google’s liability for user content on its sites.Once one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal opponents, Silicon Valley’s technology industry has increasingly found common ground with the White House. When Mr. Trump was elected, tech executives were largely up in arms over a leader who espoused policies on immigration and other issues that were antithetical to their companies’ values. Now, many of the industry’s executives are growing more comfortable with the president and how his economic agenda furthers their business interests, even as many of their employees continue to disagree with Mr. Trump on social issues.AdvertisementThe relationship remains bumpy. Mr. Trump lashed out at Amazon on Twitter on Thursday, accusing the e-commerce giant of evading taxes. (Amazon said it had saved $789 million under the tax law Mr. Trump signed.) The president is also expected to sign legislation,  passed by the Senate last week, that would strengthen policing of sex trafficking online — a bill that internet companies once opposed because they worried it would make them liable for content posted by their users.AdvertisementYet quietly, the tech industry has warmed to the White House, especially as companies including Alphabet, Apple and Intel have benefited from the Trump administration’s policies.Those include lowering corporate taxes, encouraging development of new wireless technology like 5G and, so far, ignoring calls to break up the tech giants. Mr. Trump’s tougher stance on China may also help ward off industry rivals, with the president squashing a hostile bid to acquire the chip maker Qualcomm this month. And Mr. Trump let die an Obama-era rule that required many tech start-ups to give some workers more overtime pay.Mr. Trump “has been great for business and really, really good for tech,” said Gary Shapiro, who leads the Consumer Technology Association, the largest American tech trade group, with more than 2,200 members including Apple, Google, Amazon and Facebook.Mr. Shapiro said that he had voted for Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump’s opponent, in 2016, but that he and many tech executives had come around on Mr. Trump. While they disagree with him on immigration and the environment, they have found areas where their interests align, like deregulation and investment in internet infrastructure.“This isn’t Hitler or Mussolini here,” Mr. Shapiro said. And even though the president’s new tariffs on steel and aluminum could hurt American businesses and consumers, “disagreement in one area does not mean we cannot work together in others,” Mr. Shapiro said. “Everyone who is married knows that.”Mr. Trump himself has taken to naming tech companies he says are on his side.After Apple took advantage of the new tax law in January to bring back most of the $252 billion cash hoard that it had parked overseas, the company said it would make a $350 billion “contribution to the U.S. economy” over the next five years. That prompted Mr. Trump to suggest he had made good on a campaign pledge to get Apple to bring jobs back to the United States.“You know, for $350 million, you could build a beautiful plant. But for $350 billion, they’re going to build a lot of plants,” the president told members of Congress last month. Mr. Trump said he had called Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, to personally thank him.AdvertisementIn fact, Apple has no plans to build a plant in the United States. The company is uneasy with Mr. Trump’s invoking it to signify how his policies are working, according to a person close to Apple who was not authorized to speak publicly. Apple has not, however, publicly corrected the president.Mr. Trump has also stayed quiet on the controversy engulfing Facebook over user privacy, while other politicians have called for more regulations after revelations that the British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Cambridge Analytica used that data to aid Mr. Trump’s campaign.Michael Kratsios, the White House’s deputy chief technology officer, said in an interview that while Mr. Trump and Silicon Valley had their differences, “in places where we do see eye to eye, I think we’re achieving extraordinary success.”Dean Garfield, head of the Information Technology Industry Council, a 102-year-old advocacy group that represents the biggest tech firms, said his members walked a tightrope, supporting and opposing the president on different issues. Lately, he said, “we have reached balance in the tightrope.”The equilibrium marks a turnabout from what had been a testy relationship between Mr. Trump and the tech sector. On the campaign trail in 2016, Mr. Trump was so critical of tech companies that Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, once joked he might send Mr. Trump to space in a rocket.
            The @washingtonpost loses money (a deduction) and gives owner @JeffBezos power to screw public on low taxation of @Amazon! Big tax shelter        
            Finally trashed by @realDonaldTrump. Will still reserve him a seat on the Blue Origin rocket. #sendDonaldtospace https://t.co/9OypFoxZk3 Some tech executives have since disagreed with Mr. Trump on social issues. Mr. Cook emailed staff last June to say he had unsuccessfully lobbied the president to remain in the Paris climate accords. In November, Microsoft sued the administration to protect a law that blocks deportation of young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. More than 100 companies, including Google, Facebook and Uber, filed a brief supporting California’s lawsuit on that issue.Even so, tech executives worked to build a relationship with the president, with some meeting him at Trump Tower before his inauguration and again at the White House in June. While in Washington for the second meeting, Mr. Cook and Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive, also dined with Jared Kushner, the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law, and Ivanka Trump at the couple’s Washington home, according to a person briefed on the meeting who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it. This month, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin visited Apple’s headquarters.
            Glad to visit @Apple HQ with @tim_cook. Thank you for your commitment to invest 350B in USA! #TaxCutsJobsAct pic.twitter.com/TasRA55smG Silicon Valley has found plenty to like about the Trump presidency. In September, tech giants including Facebook and Microsoft teamed up with the administration to pledge $500 million to computer science education. Amazon, Microsoft and Google are also eyeing the administration as a potential customer as Mr. Trump pushes to modernize the government’s digital infrastructure.But Silicon Valley’s favorite thing about Mr. Trump is almost certainly his new tax code. Many tech companies lobbied for corporate tax reform for years before Mr. Trump signed the new tax bill.AdvertisementTech giants immediately reaped the benefits. Under the new rules, Apple saved $43.7 billion in taxes, according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan research group. Apple then announced the $350 billion “contribution” to the economy over five years.Most of the tally was previously planned spending with American suppliers and a $38 billion tax payment on its overseas cash. But Apple also said it planned to hire 20,000 new workers, invest in new data centers and another domestic campus, and increase a fund for innovative American manufacturers to $5 billion from $1 billion. It also gave employees $2,500 bonuses.The president was quick to tweet the news.
            I promised that my policies would allow companies like Apple to bring massive amounts of money back to the United States. Great to see Apple follow through as a result of TAX CUTS. Huge win for American workers and the USA! https://t.co/OwXVUyLOb1 The shifting relationship between Silicon Valley and Mr. Trump appears to have upset some tech employees. A Facebook page called “Angry Googler,” with nearly 1,000 followers, has been dedicated to criticizing Google for any sign it was cooperating with the president.“Not happy about Google pulling a 180 and jumping into bed with Trump? Same here,” said the “About” section of the page, which suggests it is run by a Google employee. This month, the page posted an article about Google helping the Defense Department analyze drone footage. “We’ve gone from organizing the world’s information to … optimizing weapons of war,” the page said.Messages to the account were not returned. Google declined to comment.Some tech firms remain discomfited about appearing as the president’s allies. Last month, Rob Goldman, Facebook’s vice president of advertising, played down Russia’s impact on the 2016 election after the Justice Department charged 13 Russians with trying to subvert its outcome, including by using Facebook. Mr. Trump retweeted Mr. Goldman approvingly.
            The Fake News Media never fails. Hard to ignore this fact from the Vice President of Facebook Ads, Rob Goldman! https://t.co/XGC7ynZwYJ Facebook was uncomfortable with that association with the president, said a person close to the company who was not authorized to speak publicly.Two days later, Facebook’s policy chief, Joel Kaplan, distanced the company from Mr. Goldman’s comments.“The special counsel has issued its indictments, and nothing we found contradicts their conclusions,” he said in a statement. “Any suggestion otherwise is wrong.”Kitty Bennett contributed research from Washington.Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas.A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Silicon Valley,  Wary of Trump,  Warms to Him.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinMARCH 29, 2018
Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Why Trump might have trouble reining in Amazon.• Public pension fund wants changes to Facebook’s board.• Trump tweets Amazon does not pay enough taxes.• Another FANG stock took a tumble.• The Trump administration wants to further thwart sensitive Chinese investments.The DealBook newsletter is taking a break for Good Friday. We’ll be back with you on Monday. Sign up for it here.
            I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!        Amazon hasn’t responded to President Trump’s latest tweet about the company, and most likely won’t.AdvertisementMr. Trump’s criticisms, though, are largely mistaken. For a long time, Amazon did not pay state sales tax, but it does so now when it sells its own goods in states that collect it. It is the case, however, that in most states Amazon does not collect sales taxes on goods sold by third parties through its platform. As for the United States Postal Service, Amazon’s business appears to be giving a welcome lift to its package shipping revenue.AdvertisementStill, Amazon cannot quietly hope that such criticism just fades away. Amazon’s rapid growth, immense bargaining power, eye-catching initiatives and estimated 44 percent share of U.S. e-commerce sales make the company vulnerable to accusations that it is too powerful.But if the Trump administration pursues ways to curtail the company, it would meet sizable obstacles.Amazon accounts for only 4 percent of all retail sales in the United States, a recent survey estimated. Its revenue is a third of Walmart’s and, even after its acquisition of Whole Foods, Amazon’s footing in the grocery business is still small.All in all, it would be hard to show that Amazon is pushing prices higher for consumers.Amazon also has a loyal customer base — it has an estimated 90 million Prime members — and the public views it relatively favorably. When the Department of Justice’s antitrust lawyers went after the proposed merger of Time Warner and AT&T, it was not targeting companies that were particularly popular with the public.Still, some Amazon critics see a possible, though small, opening. In theory, an antitrust case could focus on the firms that supply Amazon with goods, according to Christopher L. Sagers, a law professor at Cleveland State University. If a company consistently uses its power to demand a good from suppliers at too low a price, the public could still get hurt. That’s because the supply of the good could decline, its quality degrade, and there may be less innovation in the sector that produces the good, Mr. Sagers said.But anyone bringing that against Amazon would have to explain why Walmart would not be a target, too.— Peter EavisThe investment adviser to New York City’s pension funds is calling for changes to Facebook’s board to address the fallout from Cambridge Analytica’s improper harvesting of information from 50 million users of the social network.AdvertisementNew York City’s comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, wrote in a letter addressed to Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann, an independent director at Facebook and the chief executive of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation:“Facebook is now among the most valuable and, given the immense power and reach of its platform, most influential companies in the world. The very data collection and sharing practices that made its extraordinary growth possible, and that are the basis of the company’s business model, are now facing potential regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world.”New York City’s pension funds, which have more than $193 billion in assets under management, own $895 million of Facebook’s shares, according to the letter. Even with the recent tumble in its shares, Facebook is valued at more than $450 billion.In his letter, Mr. Stringer calls on Facebook’s independent directors to take four steps to help restore investor confidence.Here are the proposed changes:1) Add at least three new independent directors to improve the board’s ability to oversee the evolving risks Facebook faces.2) Name an independent director as chairman, allowing Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive and chairman, to focus on running the company.3) Create a committee of independent directors to oversee the company’s data privacy policies and risks.4) Institute a clawback policy so that the board can “recoup executive pay in the event of violations of law, regulation or company policy.”President Trump spoke out against Amazon on Thursday, saying that the online behemoth does not pay enough taxes and uses the United States postal system “as their Delivery Boy.”
            I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!        The president’s commentary, made in a Twitter post, comes amid reports that Mr. Trump has expressed an interest in reining in the e-commerce business.AdvertisementAmazon and the company’s founder, Jeff Bezos, are among Mr. Trump’s regular Twitter targets. In December, Mr. Trump questioned whether the United States Post Office charges Amazon enough for package deliveries. And in August, Mr. Trump said Amazon hurts taxpaying businesses.Amazon, however, does pay taxes — $412 million in 2016, for instance, according to the company’s report to the Securities and Exchange Commission.Axios reported on Wednesday that Mr. Trump has wondered aloud whether Amazon could be vulnerable to antitrust or competition laws.“Trump’s wealthy friends tell him Amazon is destroying their businesses. His real estate buddies tell him — and he agrees — that Amazon is killing shopping malls and brick-and-mortar retailers.”Amazon shares fell more than 7 percent following that Axios article but recovered some of those losses after a White House official told Reuters that the company faced no particular policy changes. But the administration is always looking at its options, the official added. The stock closed down 4.4 percent Wednesday.Shares were down nearly 2 percent in early trading.Should shareholders worry? The GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives told Bloomberg that this regulatory threat was unlikely to change Amazon’s business model, but it was still “the last thing nervous tech investors wanted to see today.”Retailers, at least, already have some reason to be cheerful.And Amazon has another target market for expansion: housekeeping.Corporate American will start reporting first-quarter results in less than two weeks, and earnings are expected to be big.Analysts estimate that profits at companies in the S.&P. 500 grew 17.3 percent this quarter, according to FactSet. If the forecasts prove accurate that would be highest earnings growth rate since the first quarter of 2011.AdvertisementPerhaps most surprising, is that analysts have grown more optimistic on corporate earnings as the quarter progressed. The earnings forecast for the index rose 5.4 percent from the start of the quarter to the end. Typically, analysts lower their expectations as the quarter progresses. On average, the profit estimates for the index fall 3.7 percent from the start of the quarter to the end.But there are reasons for investors to temper their enthusiasm. Analysts have not been as optimistic about the abilities of companies to increase sales. Revenue is expected to have grown 7.3 percent in the first quarter, up from a 7 percent rate at the start of the quarter.That suggests analysts are not raising estimates because of increased sales. So why are they? Taxes. And the impact tax reform will have on bottom lines should moderate in the coming quarters.That may already be happening. BofA Merrill Lynch’s earnings revision ratio for the S.&P. 500 fell in March for the first time in three months. Of course, the pullback comes after the ratio hits the highest level on record in February, but it does suggest that earnings lift from tax reform has begun to wane.Investors, always willing to believe in technology companies, spent the last three years piling into their shares with abandon. Now the intellectual underpinnings of that rally are being tested.Exhibit A: Facebook, down 20 percent from its recent high.Exhibit B: Nvidia, off 12 percent from its recent high.Exhibit C: Tesla, not a tech stock but in the FANG+ index.Concerns about Tesla’s ability to fund itself can also be seen in the trading of its debt.The WSJ’s Charley Grant explains:Tesla can’t simply cut spending to solve its cash challenge if it hopes to ramp up production. The company has racked up about $10 billion in long-term debt and has $23 billion in total liabilities. To survive long term, Tesla needs to stop overpromising and to scale back its ambitions to goals it actually can achieve. Right now, though, it just needs more money.Peter Eavis notes that the latest problems for tech giants have raised deeper doubts:After the Uber incident in Arizona, those companies may take a more realistic look at what they have to spend to create a technology that is efficient and safe, and conclude that they have to pull out of the race or pare back. Users of social media and regulators may prevent social media companies from sharing so much of their data with advertisers, and that could restrain revenue growth.And if the passion for two or three big tech companies wanes, the cooling may spread.Barclays said on Thursday that it agreed to pay $2 billion to settle a lawsuit by United States authorities that accused the British bank of fraudulently misleading the public in the sale of tens of billions of dollars in securities backed by home mortgages.AdvertisementThe Justice Department sued the bank in December 2016 after the two sides failed to reach a settlement despite months of talks. The settlement is the latest by a European lender related to residential mortgage-backed securities sold ahead of the financial crisis and follows agreements reached by Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank in late 2016.“I am pleased that we have been able to reach a fair and proportionate settlement with the Department of Justice,” James E. Staley, the Barclays chief executive, said in a news release. “It has been a priority for this management team from the start to resolve these historic issues in a timely and appropriate manner wherever possible.”Two former Barclays executives who were sued along with the bank also have reached settlements, agreeing to pay a combined $2 million, the Justice Department said in a news release.Their lawyers separately said the government’s claims were baseless and each agreed to settle the case without admitting wrongdoing.- Chad BrayTammy Kiely is leaving Goldman Sachs to join Morgan Stanley as global head of semiconductor and auto technology investment banking, according to an internal memo seen by The New York Times.Ms. Kiely, who will be based in Menlo Park, Calif., joined Goldman in 1999 and had headed its semiconductor investment banking team since 2006, becoming a partner in 2014. Before Goldman, she worked at KPMG as a certified public accountant in its information, communications and entertainment practice.She has a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the California Polytechnic State University and an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Following her arrival, Mark Edelstone will become chairman of global semiconductor investment banking at Morgan Stanley.AdvertisementThe move comes amid a wave of dealmaking among chip makers the past few years.- Chad BrayRevolving door• Equifax has a new C.E.O.: the former G.E. executive Mark Begor. (NYT)• Lior Ron, who helped found the self-driving truck company Otto, has left Uber, which acquired it. (NYT)• A.G. Gangadhar has left G.M.’s self-driving car company, Cruise, after six months as chief technology officer. (Recode)The Advertising Research Foundation gave Cambridge Analytica an award last year. Amid the scandal over Facebook data, it’s thinking again.But the group’s executive, Scott McDonald, said that advertisers cared more about whether the data tech companies offered was accurate than whether they should have collected it.Facebook, for its part, promised yesterday to stop advertisers targeting ads using data from third-party brokers, and to put its user privacy settings in one place, rather than about 20. It’s also rethinking privacy safeguards for forthcoming devices, The Information says.Tim Cook of Apple is calling for privacy regulation: “To me, it’s creepy when I look at something and all of a sudden it’s chasing me all across the web.”And our Kevin Roose considers how to save social media: Facebook could become more of a collective enterprise, social networks could become more like email or users could put an expiry date on information.AdvertisementThe tech flyaround• Expect more deals from SoftBank’s Vision Fund. It wants to be the biggest shareholder in 100 tech companies, then consolidate them. It’s nearing a deal for a stake in Swiss Re, too.• The German automakers BMW and Daimler have teamed up to fight Silicon Valley. (NYT)• A Google early-stage venture fund is leading a $6 million investment in a company building software to let cars be driven remotely (by humans). (Bloomberg)• Boeing said it had been hit by WannaCry, the malware that struck in 70 countries last year. (NYT)• Apple facies several lawsuits from consumers for slowing older iPhones to extend battery life. (WSJ)• Warner Music bought Sodatone, a start-up that promises to spot hits early using machine learning. (FT)• How 5G will redraw the map of the wireless industry. (WSJ)While finalizing its plans for trade restrictions, the Trump administration is moving ahead with a more targeted strike against Chinese investment in sensitive American technology.But the Treasury Department faces a challenge if, as planned, it uses the 1977 International Emergency Economic Powers Act.“Just defining what percentage of equity would classify a firm as ‘state-owned’ is difficult, as is the definition of which technologies should be off limits,” the WSJ’s Bob Davis writes. “In some cases, U.S. firms could rely on Chinese ones for innovation, especially in manufacturing.”AdvertisementThe political flyaround• A lawsuit arguing that President Trump’s continued business interests violate the Constitution has passed its first test. (NYT)• Republicans’ plan for a second tax cut before the midterm elections has yet to attract much financial support from business. (WaPo)• Treasury bonds remain attractive to investors, but Moody’s argues that the U.S. may have less flexibility for future borrowing. (WSJ)• An infrastructure bill passed before the midterms? Trump administration officials are trying to lower expectations. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump declared the Second Amendment would “never be repealed,” in response to a former Supreme Court justice’s NYT Op-Ed. (NYT)Four women sought police protection against Douglas E. Greenberg, one of Morgan Stanley’s top financial advisers.Executives at the bank knew about his behavior, former employees said, but no action was taken until the NYT raised the issue this week.The bank’s wealth-management division accounts for nearly half Morgan Stanley’s revenue and is seen as its prime source of future profits.With an aging and declining population in Japan, companies have to look elsewhere to grow. Takeda Pharmaceuticals’ potential bid for Shire could be one of the largest acquisitions ever of a Western company by a Japanese buyer.AdvertisementCritics’ corner: It’s not really about cost savings, argues Bloomberg Gadfly’s Chris Hughes: “In reality, the attraction is that Shire is cheap and vulnerable — something other bidders will see.” And the FT’s Lex would welcome that: “There are better potential matches.” AT&T-Time Warner trial update: The head of Turner broadcasting said that his company’s channels would not be used as a weapon against rivals if the deal went through. The judge overseeing the case told the parties to speed up their presentation. And if the deal isn’t completed by Apr. 22, it may cost AT&T  up to $1.1 billion in special redemptions.The deals flyaround• Concho Resources will buy RSP Permian for $9.5 billion, creating a shale-oil colossus and adding to the rush to produce more oil. (NYT)• Renault and Nissan are in talks to merge, unnamed sources said. (Bloomberg)• Vivendi and Elliott Management are tussling over Telecom Italia. (FT)• Stella McCartney has agreed to buy Kering out of her fashion brand, regaining full control. (NYT)• CME Group has offered to buy NEX Group, which operates bond-trading platforms, for $5.4 billion. (WSJ)• The defense contractor CACI International has withdraw its bid for CSRA, which offers information technology services to government agencies and now looks likely to be acquired by General Dynamics. (WaPo)Advertisement• Silver Lake is taking a $500 million stake in the online personal finance company Credit Karma. (WSJ)• The technology company DocuSign, not yet profitable, has filed for an I.P.O. (WSJ)• Anbang, the insurer seized by the Chinese government, is continuing to offer the small-investor products that fueled its growth. (NYT)• The economics of home buying are getting interesting, with higher mortgage rates, tax changes and a supply-demand imbalance. (NYT)• Wells Fargo is taking a measured approach to the gun debate, its chief executive, Tim Sloan, said — but does not believe a bank can be an “arbiter of what an American can buy.” (Charlotte Observer)• Bumble is suing Match Group, which owns Tinder, accusing it of stealing trade secrets and interfering in Bumble’s business. (Recode)• Deutsche Bank is considering more cuts in its investment bank, unnamed sources say, while its chief executive, John Cryan, has insisted that he’s staying. (Bloomberg)• The Wing, a members’ club for women, is being investigated by New York authorities for discrimination. (NYT)• The C.F.T.C. chairman, J. Christopher Giancarlo, has become a Twitter star — complete with a nickname, “Cryptodad” — over his digital currency views. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• Investors who lost money on the blood-testing firm Theranos may end up fighting the S.E.C. over its assets. (Bloomberg)Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article misstated Doug Greenberg’s position at Morgan Stanley. He is a financial adviser in one of the bank’s Oregon offices; he does not run Morgan Stanley’s wealth-management division.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By IAN AUSTENMARCH 30, 2018
Christopher Wylie, the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower, brought Canada into a story that’s drawn intense scrutiny to Facebook this week. And it’s not just because he’s from Victoria, British Columbia.After focusing close attention on the social network with the disclosure that Cambridge used personal data from millions of the social media site’s users without permission to help Donald J. Trump’s election campaign, Mr. Wylie brought a company from his hometown, Aggregate IQ, into the fray this week during testimony before Britain’s Parliament.In his testimony, Mr. Wylie said that Aggregrate, a subsidiary of Cambridge Analytica’s parent, drew on Cambridge’s Facebook data to sway social media opinion in favor of the Leave side in the 2016 British referendum on the European Union vote, and he repeated claims that the Canadian company was used to avoid British campaign spending limits. (The company has denied the claims.)Attention inevitably turned to Mr. Wylie’s activities in Canada. When he was 19, Mr. Wylie worked briefly in the office of Michael Ignatieff, then the Liberal leader. Then early in 2016, when Mr. Trump’s victory was not being widely predicted, Mr. Wylie, through a company called Eunoia Technologies, was given a 100,000 Canadian dollar contract by the Liberal Caucus Research Bureau. Like all of the political parties’ research shops, the bureau is separate from the party’s other operations and is funded by Parliament.Melissa Cotton, the bureau’s managing director, said in a statement that Mr. Wylie did not have access to the party’s data and that he worked on projects that appeared to have involved monitoring social media, identifying issues and analyzing how Liberal members communicate with voters.Advertisement“Preliminary work was done by Eunoia Technologies but after seeing what was offered, Liberal Caucus Research Bureau decided not to move forward.” Ms. Cotton said, without explaining why it cut ties.AdvertisementMr. Wylie’s time in Ottawa, however, brought to light something that most people have overlooked. Unlike businesses and the federal government itself, federal political parties aren’t subject to Canada’s internet privacy and data protection laws.Some of those laws date to the 1980s and the federal privacy commissioner, among others, has been calling for a 21st century update. But while Canada lags behind Europe in this area, it’s still well ahead of the United States.The political party exemption came about in part because of a parliamentary tradition of not giving bureaucrats or outside bodies control over a party’s affairs. I called Michael Pal, an assistant law professor at the University of Ottawa who studies election laws and related issues like voter suppression, and asked if it’s time for a change.“Every other sector is covered by privacy laws but political parties,” he said. “They are all using data so I don’t think there is a good argument about why they should be under privacy rules.”As for concerns about encroaching on Parliament, Professor Pal isn’t buying that either. He noted that parties were already “heavily regulated” through Elections Canada and election fund-raising laws.So what’s a Facebook user to do now? My colleague Brian X. Chen, who writes about consumer technology, has offered some guidance on minimizing privacy risks on Facebook, although his overall take on the situation facing Facebook users is a little discouraging:“What, if anything, can they do to protect their data connected to the social network?Here’s the harsh truth: Not much, short of ceasing to browse the web entirely or deleting your Facebook account.”What about deleting old Facebook and Twitter posts? Brian tried it and found that his “delete-everything approach was probably not worth most people’s time. And even after all that time, my Facebook timeline was still decorated with posts that my friends had published about me — including photos from my 21st birthday (need I say more?) — because that content was not mine to delete.”Every week, receive a handpicked selection of news and opinion plus exclusive commentary from New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That, of course, leaves the option of quitting social media. And that’s what I’m interested in hearing about from you. Have the last couple of weeks turned your mind toward leaving Facebook or other social media sites? If you’re inclined, do you think it’s possible to leave? And if you leave, what will you lose and what will you gain? Please send your thoughts to nytcanada@nytimes.com.AdvertisementRead: How Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of MillionsRead: Cambridge Analytica Whistle-Blower Contends Data-Mining Swung Brexit VoteRead: How to Protect Yourself (and Your Friends) on FacebookRead: Want to Purge Your Social Media Timelines? Can You Spare a Few Hours?About a year ago, I wrote about how the house where the Dionne quintuplets were born faced an uncertain future. The birth, and survival, of the quints at the height of the Great Depression was both a global sensation and a tale of grave injustice. The girls were taken from their family and made wards of the province of Ontario, ostensibly to protect them from exploitation. But the government turned around and exhibited almost like zoo animals. Millions of visitors viewed them from a special gallery.Other injustices and misfortune followed the five through their lives. The decision by the City of North Bay to turn over the log house to a village without the obvious means to maintain or restore it looked like the latest one.But much has changed in the past year. After a public campaign, North Bay reversed its decision, and the house has been moved to downtown where it will become a museum.And this week, The Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada designated the birth of the quints an event of national historical significance.Carlo Tarini, a friend who acts as the family’s spokesman, told me this week that Annette and Cécile, the two surviving sisters, are doing well, although Cécile was hospitalized for a time in January because of pneumonia.“In the pre-internet decades of the 30s and 40s, the worldwide fascination they sparked as children brings shade to the Kardashian kids popularity,” Mr. Tarini wrote in an email.AdvertisementRead: 2 Survivors of Canada’s First Quintuplet Clan Reluctantly Re-emerge—The Protestant churches involved in a system that took Indigenous children away from their families to boarding schools apologized for their role in during the 1990s. While the Truth and Reconciliation Commission has asked Pope Francis to follow suit, he rejected the idea.—Alexandre Bissonnette, who killed six men at a mosque in Quebec City last year, pleaded guilty to first degree murder this week. While the move brought relief to survivors and the families of victims, the lack of a trial means that questions about his transformation from university student to killer may go unanswered.—Rusty Staub, le Grand Orange to Montrealers, has died at the age of 73. During his time with the Montreal Expos, Mr. Staub endeared himself to Quebecers on the field.—Peter Munk, who created one of Canada’s biggest business fiascos at Clairtone and then rebounded to build the world’s largest gold mining company, has died at the age of 90 in Toronto.An earlier version of a web summary with this article misstated the name of the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower. He is Christopher Wylie, not Andrew Wylie.A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so, please subscribe to the email newsletter version.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byCan’t find time to read? Some illustrated solutions.By Grant SniderGrant Snider is a cartoonist and illustrator, and the author, most recently, of “The Shape of Ideas.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:03 P.M. E.D.T.
MENLO PARK, Calif. —  "We've made a bunch of mistakes." ''Everyone needs complete control over who they share with at all times." ''Not one day goes by when I don't think about what it means for us to be the stewards of this community and their trust."Sound familiar? It's Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg addressing a major privacy breach — seven years ago .Lawmakers in many countries may be focused on Cambridge Analytica's alleged improper use of Facebook data, but the social network's privacy problems go back more than a decade. Here are some of the company's most notable missteps and promises around privacy.2007The social media darling unveils its Facebook Platform to great fanfare. Zuckerberg says app developers can now access the web of connections between users and their friends, a set of connections Facebook calls the "social graph."Advertisement"The social graph is changing the way the world works," he says .That November, Facebook launches Beacon , which shares what users are doing on other websites with their Facebook friends. Many users find it intrusive and difficult to disable. Massachusetts resident Sean Lane buys his wife a diamond ring for Christmas on Overstock.com, but Facebook ruins the surprise , an incident leading to a class-action lawsuit.AdvertisementIn December, Zuckerberg apologizes and enables users to shut off Beacon. "I know we can do better," he says .2008Facebook launches Facebook Connect , aiming to correct Beacon's mistakes by requiring users to take deliberate action before they share activity from other websites when logged in using Facebook. More than 100 websites use the tool at launch, including CNN and TripAdvisor.2009Facebook announces "privacy improvements" after a yearlong review by Canada's Office of the Privacy Commissioner found that it geared its default privacy settings toward openness, failed to inform users their data would be used to serve ads, and leaked data to third party developers, including when their friends used apps. Facebook vows to encourage "users to review their privacy settings" but does not agree to all the recommendations.Beacon is officially shut down, settling Lane's class action lawsuit.The American Civil Liberties Union warns people that Facebook's default settings mean that when a friend uses an app or takes a quiz, the quiz- or app-maker can peer into your profile, even if you've made it private.2010App-makers exhibit a sophisticated grasp of data they can scoop from Facebook's social graph.The Wall Street Journal reports that many popular apps are transmitting personalized Facebook data to dozens of advertising and internet companies, among them, Zynga's breakout game FarmVille. Facebook responds by shutting down some apps.Prior to the Journal report, Facebook says it has redesigned its privacy tools, giving its 400 million users "the power to control exactly who can see the information and content they share.2011The Federal Trade Commission reaches a consent decree with Facebook after an investigation of its broken privacy promises to consumers.AdvertisementThe FTC alleges, among other things, that:—Facebook made its users' friend lists public in December 2009, even if they had been set to private, without telling them.—Even if users limited data sharing to "friends only," data was actually shared with third party apps that friends used.—Facebook failed to verify the security of apps it put on a "verified apps" list.—Facebook promised not to share personal information with advertisers, but did.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook promises to submit to a privacy audit every two years for the next 20 years, and Zuckerberg owns up to mistakes.2012Facebook introduces new methods to help advertisers reach people in ways "that protect your privacy," including an encryption tool called Custom Audiences that lets marketers match the email addresses of sales leads to the addresses that Facebook users used to set up their accounts.Facebook also rolls out new privacy tools aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls. Among other things, it narrows the scope of app permissions so they don't suck in as much user data automatically.2013Facebook shares two-year-old anonymized data on billions of friendships between countries with Cambridge researcher Aleksandr Kogan and co-authors a research paper with him (published in 2015).Kogan creates a quiz app, installed by around 300,000 people , giving him access to tens of millions of their friends' data.2014Facebook says it dramatically limits the access apps have to friend data, preventing the type of data scoop Kogan and others were capable of. It also requires developers to get approval from Facebook before accessing sensitive data.Advertisement2015Facebook says it learns from Guardian journalists that Kogan has shared data with Cambridge Analytica in violation of its policies. It bans the app and asks Kogan and Cambridge Analytica to certify they had deleted the data.It rolls out "Security Checkup ," a new tool aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls.2017Facebook introduces "Privacy Basics ," a Frequently Asked Questions site aimed at simplifying its privacy controls.2018Facebook says it learns from The Guardian and other media outlets that Cambridge Analytica did not delete improperly obtained Facebook data and suspends the company, Kogan, and whistleblower Christopher Wylie from its service.Zuckerberg tells CNN that "I'm really sorry that this happened." He promises to audit app makers that gathered massive amounts of data prior to 2014 and to notify affected users. Amid calls for investigations in the U.S. and U.K., the FTC begins investigating whether Facebook broke its 2011 consent decree."Our responsibility now is to make sure that this doesn't happen again," Zuckerberg says.Facebook redesigns its privacy settings menu on mobile devices and says in a blog post, "It's time to make our privacy tools easier to find."___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:57 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Facebook's decision to stop working with third-party data collectors might earn it public-relations points, but it does little to protect your privacy. The social network still has more than enough data on your interests and hobbies to target ads with precision.The company will still tap browser and device IDs to track visits to third-party sites and apps. And it will have lots more information from your use of its service — everything from the businesses and hobbies you "like" to the types of news articles you read and share. The data helps Facebook create profile targets — such as college-educated mothers in Detroit who like ice cream and the band Coldplay — for advertisers to reach.Limiting its partnership with data brokers also doesn't touch on the difficulty Facebook has had keeping your data out of the hands of other companies. The social network is in the spotlight following accusations that a data-mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of Facebook users to try to influence elections.Facebook may try to defuse that criticism by saying it's backing off on some data use, said Jon Reily, vice president of commerce strategy at the digital consulting company SapientRazorfish. But, he noted, "they didn't need that sixth wheel on a car anyway."AdvertisementIn a clear sign of who needs whom more, shares of Acxiom, a leading data collector that Facebook had contracted with, tumbled 19 percent Thursday. Facebook's stock saw a 4 percent gain, reversing some of the big losses it's suffered since the scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated consulting firm, broke almost two weeks ago.AdvertisementLate Wednesday, Facebook said it was shutting down a type of advertising product that allowed marketers to use data from people's offline lives to target them on Facebook. The information includes categories like home ownership and purchase history and comes from some of the world's largest data brokers, including Acxiom, Epsilon and Experian. The decision came on the same day Facebook said it would make it easier to use its privacy controls and to see the data the company collects on its users.These data brokers have troves of data on credit scores, family status, pet ownership and hobbies, which they glean from surveys, warrantee cards, retail loyalty programs and other sources. Brokers typically don't have a direct relationship with consumers, and how they get the data is often questionable, said Peter Reinhardt, CEO of Segment, a consumer data firm."Removing these brokers is a no-brainer, as they add very little incremental value to advertisers and a lot of rightful scrutiny to Facebook," Reinhardt said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook said shutting down the advertising feature over the next six months "will help improve people's privacy on Facebook." But it wouldn't have stopped Cambridge Analytica from grabbing data inappropriately through an app that purported to be a research tool. Though Facebook has clamped down on apps' ability to get data on your friends, it still lets apps collect plenty of data on you. That isn't changing with Wednesday's moves.And even without direct access to the brokers' data, Facebook was already able to build prediction models based on it, said Kenneth Sanford, lead analytics architect at the data science company Dataiku. So Facebook could use that model to ascertain other characteristics of people who buy Purina cat food, even if Facebook no longer gets data on which users indeed bought Purina."In the beginning, Facebook had a tremendous value in knowing those things they didn't otherwise know," Sanford said. "Over time, they've been able to accumulate that information."Besides data brokers, which will lose a source of revenue, advertisers who don't already have a lot of insights on their own customers might suffer in the short term. Debra Aho Williamson, principal analyst at the research firm eMarketer, said those advertisers might cut their spending on Facebook temporarily, but Facebook will try to shift them to its many other methods of ad targeting.Losing access to purchase history could hurt some advertisers. If Purina wants to target cat lovers on Facebook, it might not know that your spouse does the actual buying — and that any advertising targeted at you might be wasted. But experts think such advertisers will just find other sources for that data to restore such insights.David Ciancio, senior customer strategist at the data science specialist Dunnhumby, said the change means little more than "an extra step for advertisers." The effects on Facebook, he said, will be "relatively marginal."Advertisement___AP Technology Writer Barbara Ortutay contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:44 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  A Facebook Inc executive said in an internal memo in 2016 that the social media company needed to pursue adding users above all else, BuzzFeed News reported on Thursday, prompting  disavowals from the executive and Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg.The memo from Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook vice president, had not been previously reported as Facebook faces inquiries over how it handles personal information and the tactics the social media company has used to grow to 2.1 billion users.Zuckerberg stood by Bosworth, who goes by the nickname "Boz," while distancing himself from the memo's contents. Bosworth confirmed the memo's authenticity but in a statement he  disavowed its message, saying its goal had been to encourage debate.Facebook users, advertisers and investors have been in an uproar for months over a series of scandals, most recently privacy practices that allowed political consultancy Cambridge Analytica to obtain personal information on 50 million Facebook members. Zuckerberg is expected to testify at a hearing with U.S. lawmakers as soon as April.Advertisement"Boz is a talented leader who says many provocative things. This was one that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly. We've never believed the ends justify the means," Zuckerberg said in a statement.AdvertisementBosworth wrote in the June 2016 memo that some "questionable" practices were all right if the result was connecting people.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."That's why all the work we do in growth is justified. All the questionable contact importing practices. All the subtle language that helps people stay searchable by friends," he wrote in the memo, which BuzzFeed published on its website.He also urged fellow employees not to let potential negatives slow them down."Maybe it costs a life by exposing someone to bullies. Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people," he wrote.Bosworth said Thursday that he did not agree with the post today "and I didn't agree with it even when I wrote it."Having a debate around hard topics like these is a critical part of our process and to do that effectively we have to be able to consider even bad ideas, if only to eliminate them," Bosworth's statement said.(Reporting by David Ingram; editing by Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 4:05 P.M. E.D.T.
BOGOTA —  A cellphone application blocked by the Colombian commerce regulator said on Thursday it has not shared Colombian users' data with Cambridge Analytica, the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United States.Colombia, which will hold presidential elections in May, on Wednesday blocked access to the Pig.gi app, which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and completing surveys. The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined.The regulator said the app might be connected to Cambridge Analytica, accused by a whistleblower of improperly accessing data to target U.S. and British voters in recent elections.A representative for the app told Reuters in an email on Thursday that Pig.gi did not have a relationship with the consultancy in the Andean country and that it has not shared any data gained from surveys of Colombian users with Cambridge Analytica.AdvertisementPig.gi also said it had not yet been informed of the ban by the Colombian regulator."Pig.gi users have the choice to share their opinions consensually in exchange for internet connectivity coins. Their opinions are always anonymized before they are sent in accordance with Colombian and Mexican law," the app said in a statement posted on its Facebook page.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The app cut ties with Cambridge Analytica in Mexico after the data scandal broke, saying it had shared results of two election polls of Mexican users with the consultancy and other partners.AdvertisementThe commerce regulator said it would comment when its investigation had concluded.Facebook said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network. The company says the information of about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica has denied Facebook data was used to help to build profiles on American voters and build support for Donald Trump in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.(Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb, editing by G Crosse)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 4:12 A.M. E.D.T.
BOGOTA —  Colombia, which will hold presidential elections in May, on Wednesday blocked access to a cell phone application it said might be connected with Cambridge Analytica, the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United States.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.Colombia's commerce regulator said in a statement it would block an application called Pig.gi, which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and recommending their friends. The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined, the regulator said.The app, which users download via the Google Play store and sign into using their Facebook account, is administered by Farrow Colombia S.A.S and Farrow Mexico S.A.P.I. de CV, the statement said.AdvertisementAttempts to reach Farrow for comment were unsuccessful. A number listed for Farrow in Colombia belongs to another company. There is no listed number for the Mexico branch of the company.Advertisement"As a preventative measure and taking into account the potential risk of a wrongful and massive illegal use of the personal data of thousands of Colombians collected via the download of the Pig.gi application, the application Pig.gi is temporarily blocked while appropriate investigations are undertaken and definitive decisions adopted," the regulator said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The regulator did not specify what evidence it had of a connection between Cambridge Analytica and Farrow. The application will be blocked on the Google Play app store and on social media, as will websites where it can be downloaded.The regulator added it has requested cooperation and information from its counterparts in the United States, United Kingdom, European Union and Mexico.Facebook announced a series of changes on Wednesday to give users more control over their data, after the scandal wiped more than $100 billion from its stock market value.Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in U.S. President Donald Trump's campaign, and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.Colombia will hold presidential elections on May 27.(Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb and Nelson Bocanegra; Editing by David Gregorio)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 7:47 P.M. E.D.T.
LOUISVILLE, Ky. —  Kentucky's Republican governor has won an initial round in his court fight over whether he violated free-speech rights by blocking people from his Facebook and Twitter accounts.U.S. District Judge Gregory Van Tatenhove denied plaintiffs' request for a preliminary injunction to prevent Gov. Matt Bevin from blocking anyone from his social media accounts.The case is part of an emerging national debate about whether elected officials infringe on First Amendment rights in doing so. Bevin is a frequent user of Twitter and Facebook.In his ruling Friday, Van Tatenhove said the governor was not suppressing speech but "merely culling his Facebook and Twitter accounts to present a public image that he desires."AdvertisementThe American Civil Liberties Union of Kentucky sued Bevin on behalf of two Kentucky residents who were blocked by Bevin on social media. The ACLU says more than 600 people have been blocked from seeing the governor's postings or engaging with him there.AdvertisementThe ACLU — which has clashed with Bevin on abortion rights and other issues — said Saturday it would continue pressing him to adopt a "constitutionally sound" social media policy."At this critical time ... when important issues like the budget and pensions are being considered, we believe Kentuckians' rights to engage in political speech and receive information from the governor's office are being violated," its attorney, Heather Gatnarek, said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Bevin's attorneys say he welcomes both positive and negative comments that stick to his chosen topics and are not obscene or abusive.The judge said Bevin's accounts are a way to communicate his own speech, not the speech of his constituents. He said "the term 'block' conjures an image much harsher than reality.""No one is being blocked from speaking on Twitter or Facebook," Van Tatenhove wrote. "They are still free to post on their own walls and on friends' walls whatever they want about Governor Bevin. Governor Bevin only wants to prevent some messages from appearing on his own wall, and, relatedly, to not view those messages he deems offensive."Requiring Bevin to allow anyone to access and post on his accounts could shut down the pages, he said. By doing so, those accounts could be flooded with internet spam, he said."If he wanted a truly open forum where everyone could post or comment, he could have set up his accounts to allow that, but he did not," Van Tatenhove wrote. "And the First Amendment does not require him to do so."While his ruling dealt only with the request for a preliminary injunction, the judge offered a broader message regarding the lawsuit. He said the plaintiffs appear "unlikely to succeed on the merits of this case." But he added that "their actual success on the merits remains open."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 1:15 P.M. E.D.T.
BRUSSELS —  Apple is introducing new tools that will allow consumers  to control how their data are used and deactivate their Apple ID accounts, as tech companies strive to bring their services into line with a tough new EU data protection law.Tech companies have long been scrutinized for how they protect their customers' data and Facebook is currently embroiled in a huge scandal where millions of users' data were improperly accessed by a political consultancy.The European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) enters into force on May 25 and is the biggest shake-up of privacy rules since the birth of the internet. It introduces stiff fines of up to 4 percent of global turnover for companies found to be in breach.Apple users worldwide will see a new data privacy information page when they update the software from Thursday on their iPhones explaining an icon which will appear when an Apple feature collects personal information.AdvertisementThe icon will not appear on features such as Apple's Maps or Siri, for example, because they do not collect user data, whereas it will appear on the App Store or iTunes.AdvertisementFrom May the device-maker will introduce new privacy management tools on the Apple ID website allowing users to get a copy of all their data held by Apple, request a correction, deactivate or delete their account.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook has also announced some privacy changes ahead of the entry into force of the EU law which is seen as raising standards worldwide as companies introduce changes globally.Apple has distanced itself from the likes of Google and Facebook who collect user data to serve them targeted advertising, saying its customers are not the product.Apple's changes are designed to give users the right to data portability, a new right introduced by GDPR, by allowing them to get a copy of their data which can be transferred to another service.(Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Keith Weir)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:20 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  A vegan in France who posted a Facebook message offering "zero sympathy" for a butcher killed by an Islamist militant during an attack last week was handed a seven-month suspended prison sentence for the remarks on Thursday, a judicial source said.The vegan went before a judge on a charge of condoning terrorism two days after a left-wing activist received a one-year suspended sentence for hailing the death of another victim of the same attack, gendarme Arnaud Beltrame.The charge carried a maximum jail sentence of five years and a fine of 75,000 euros ($92,000).France's butchers federation said it had filed the legal complaint against the author of the Facebook post, which has been removed.The vegan lives in Saint Gaudens, a village not far from the Pyrenees mountains and the town of Trebes, hit by last week's attack.AdvertisementMoroccan-born Radouane Lakdim killed four people during his rampage, including three people in a supermarket in Trebes. Among the victims there were Beltrame and butcher Christian Medves.President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday led a national tribute to Beltrame, who swapped places with a woman Lakdim had been holding hostage. A ceremony for the three civilians killed was held on Thursday morning.AdvertisementLakdim was shot dead by police.(Reporting By Brian Love and Emmanuel Jarry; Editing by Richard Lough and Raissa Kasolowsky)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By LELA MOOREMARCH 30, 2018
Roseanne Barr spoke with Patrick Healy, the politics editor and a former culture reporter and editor at The Times, about the premiere of the reboot of her show on ABC. Mr. Healy asked the actress and showrunner about her support for President Trump and her decision to make her character, Roseanne Conner, a supporter as well.The interview split readers, some of whom said they would boycott the show over Ms. Barr’s views, while others praised her outspokenness. The premiere of “Roseanne” on Tuesday drew 18.2 million viewers, according to Nielsen. Mr. Trump even called Ms. Barr to congratulate her on the revival and to thank her for her support.Readers weighed in on the interview and the show’s premiere on our website and on Facebook and Twitter. These are edited excerpts from readers’ comments.I have decided to boycott the show and I am sure no one will care, but I will care. It is a point of personal preference and internal integrity. BARBARA SIEGMAN, LOS ANGELESAdvertisementWas interested in watching until I heard she supports Trump. Can you say boycott? COLINUsed to love the old show & Roseanne Barr too. Things change. Now, not only do I dislike the woman, I’ll never let my TV rest, even for a moment, on her show. I do hope it fails. The wrong side of history is no place to be. @MSANNIEREGARDS, VIA TWITTERAdvertisementIf Roseanne is being truthful in this interview, I have new respect for her. She factually rejects the interviewer’s attempt to misrepresent Mr. Trump’s position on a number of issues, and she is not afraid to do so. Good for her. PAUL, WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.As for Roseanne the actual person, she’s never been afraid to shock or say whatever she wants, so I’m surprised that anyone is surprised and offended. I don’t require that the actors in a show or all of its characters agree with me politically in order to enjoy it. E.G., NEW YORKWhen did we become so weak that we can’t even bear to hear an opinion that is different from our own? I hope that the show can help us remember that we didn’t always hate the other side. LISSA ANN, VIA FACEBOOKWas really hoping to see someone I thought was smart and articulate explain how they can support Trump — without devolving into a tirade against the left — and she completely passed on it. It was an opportunity to explain your views to an audience that needs to hear it. And you passed. For me, that calls into question whether the views are genuine, or whether they are supported by anything other than hatred and bigotry. TK, VERMONTI was genuinely interested in hearing her point of view — and she punted. How are we liberals supposed to “listen” to the “forgotten people” (or in this case, a wealthy Hollywood actress/Hawaiian macadamia nut farmer) if the “forgotten people” never engage us? STACY, NEW YORK Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.So the same Roseanne Conner that stood up to an overtly misogynistic factory boss, who treated women laborers as objects and used his power to curry sexualized and behavioral compliance, now supports a man who wields the highest amount of power in the world who both personally and rhetorically embodies the exact same behaviors and male privilege? DAVE BRACKMAN, VIA FACEBOOKToo bad blue collar is now identified with Trump and low class. Not necessarily accurate. CLAIRE D., KENNEBUNK, MAINERoseanne seems to be trying to cover both sides and especially trying to tell how working class is coping — or not — at these gruesome times. RISTO T. KOUKKALA, VIA FACEBOOKAdvertisementI liked how they handled the Hillary/Trump business and it was quite a true reflection of what’s happening in families right now. I was surprised that I was able to laugh about it, as I have been very upset since the election. The show was a good reminder that we need to relax. ROXANE DANIEL, VIA FACEBOOKLoved every minute of Roseanne’s show. This country has become so politically correct, uptight and thin-skinned that it’s making everyone nuts. HOBBS7, UTAHI’m pretty super liberal, but I liked it. I don’t live in a bubble and I have friends and family that run the spectrum of political views. The show had something for everyone which is a good thing and it’s good to be reminded not to take ourselves too seriously. DAVID CROWELL, VIA FACEBOOKThe first episode was pretty political but done and written amazingly well. It was touching. @KIRKINMONTREAL, VIA TWITTERPolitics aside, last night’s show was dreadful. None of the charm of the original series, and the characters were strident, shallow and generally unlikable. @DEBBIEBBI, VIA TWITTERI’m sure a lot of people (like me) tuned in just to see how the characters turned out. Now that I know, my curiosity is satisfied. The show wasn’t very funny. I won’t be watching again. AMY BRENNER-FRICKE, VIA FACEBOOK We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 10:21 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  The leader of Britain's left-leaning Labour Party is facing intensifying criticism from outsiders and some of his own members for what is viewed as a failure to address reports of anti-Semitism involving some Labour supporters.Allegations of anti-Semitism within Britain's main opposition party have grown since Jeremy Corbyn, a longtime critic of Israeli actions against the Palestinians, was elected leader in 2015.The simmering tensions — which already had cost Labour some backing — escalated Sunday with newspaper reports about numerous anti-Semitic Facebook posts from groups that support the party.The Sunday Times reported that some senior Labour staff workers were members of Facebook groups that made anti-Semitic and violent comments.AdvertisementLabour has denied the groups named by the Sunday Times are connected to the party in any way. Corbyn maintains the party has "zero tolerance" for anti-Semitism and other forms of discrimination.AdvertisementWhile friction between Jewish advocacy groups and Corbyn has existed almost since the start of his reign, the latest confrontation began when a 6-year-old Facebook posting was brought to public attention last month by a Labour Party lawmaker who is Jewish.In the post, Corbyn expressed support for an artist who created a street mural that included a number of anti-Jewish stereotypes.After lawmaker Luciana Berger questioned the posting on March 23, Corbyn said he regretted not looking closely at the "deeply disturbing and anti-Semitic" mural before encouraging the artist.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.His stewardship of the party has been criticized by longtime Labour activist David Garrard, a major donor who told The Observer newspaper he has left the party because of its failure to confront anti-Semitism.Garrard said the party has failed to expel members espousing "the grossest derogatory" comments about alleged Jewish conspiracies and characteristics."I have watched with dismay and foreboding the manner in which the leadership has, in my view, over the last two years, conducted itself," he said. "I consider that it has supported and endorsed the most blatant acts of anti-Semitism."The Board of Deputies of British Jews and the Jewish Leadership Council say Corbyn's party has repeatedly failed to deal with anti-Semitism.On Saturday, senior Labour official Christine Shawcroft resigned from the party's National Executive Committee after she was criticized for opposing the suspension of a Labour Party council candidate who was accused of Holocaust denial. Shawcroft said her presence on the leadership board had become a "distraction."She was replaced on the leadership committee by actor-comedian Eddie Izzard, who on Sunday acknowledged Labour's rift with Britain's Jews.Advertisement"We must make amends and repair the damage with the Jewish community as Jeremy Corbyn has promised to do," Izzard said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 1:41 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Germany claimed another sporting world title as Saxonia Globe Snippers won this year's World Marbles Championship in Tinsley Green, near London Gatwick Airport.The former winners beat English defending champions Johnson Jets for their first success since 2004."(We were) a little rusty, we have not really played in 12 years," winning team member Yann Langer said.Other teams from Britain and the United States also took part in the event, which is contested every Easter in the car park at the Greyhound public house, the venue since 1938.In the best tradition of the British bank holiday weekend, there was heavy rain throughout.According to the event's Facebook page there was an unfortunate end to the afternoon when a number of trophies and medals disappeared, although they were eventually recovered from various customers in the bar.(Reporting by Steve Tongue, editing by Ed Osmond)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 10:15 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Though Facebook gets the attention because of a recent privacy gaffe, the social network is far from alone in collecting massive amounts of data on you to help marketers sell you stuff.Google, for one, also does extensive tracking to power its advertising engines. And many other websites and apps run ads sold by Facebook and Google and exchange data with them. Beyond that, plenty of services including Uber and Amazon keep detailed histories on you.Here are some of the ways to block or minimize such tracking — but they come with trade-offs.___TRACKING IDsWebsites have long used unique IDs in "cookies" — data files stored in your browser — to know it's you when you return a week later. Cookies also let advertising networks run by the likes of Facebook and Google connect you as you visit multiple websites. Phones and tablets have a device advertising ID that apps can use to track you.Advertisement— Combatting this: You can reset the cookie ID by clearing cookies periodically. Most browsers also have a private mode to limit tracking through cookies, though it's not foolproof. Companies can still link you if you've signed in, for instance. As for the device ID, you can reset that or tell advertisers not to target ads through the phone's settings.AdvertisementMany browsers also let you install add-ons that block ad trackers. Notable add-ons include Ghostery or the Electronic Frontier Foundation's Privacy Badger.— The trade-offs: You'll still get ads, just not targeted ones. And clearing cookies makes your browser forget who you are, so you'll have to sign back into any site that was saving your login. Tracker blockers can sometimes prevent websites from displaying or working properly.___LOCATION SERVICESMany apps need your location to work. Mapping apps, for instance, can't tell you when to turn without knowing where you are. Video services typically have rights only in certain countries and need to verify your location. But location can be used for much more. Google, for instance, keeps a fairly detailed account of your whereabouts through a feature called Timeline.— Combatting this: You can turn off location services in the phone's settings, though for apps to work property, it's better to turn them off for specific services that don't really need them. As for Timeline, you can pause or delete location history in Google settings.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.— The trade-offs: Some apps won't work without your location. Others, such as weather apps, will require you enter your location manually. And you might miss out on recommendations such as better commuting routes via apps like Waze.___SIGNING INSigning into an online account gives services a sure-fire way of tracking you. Facebook won't work at all without an account; Google merely works better with one. And you'll generally need an account with any service that charges you, although sometimes you can sign in with your Facebook or Google ID instead.— Combatting this: Resist creating an account or signing whenever you can — such as when you're merely browsing rather than buying. Avoid using Facebook or Google IDs whenever possible, as those companies could then track you. You can also use a different email address for each account to frustrate efforts to connect you across services, although it can be a major pain.— The trade-offs: Some services require signing in, and creating accounts on each service means more passwords to remember (though you might consider using a password manager ). Whatever you do, don't reuse the same passwords across service; that makes them easy to hack.Advertisement___IP ADDRESSThe Internet Protocol address lists where your phone or computer lives on the internet; it's how you get messages and load websites. But IP addresses can also help companies remember who you are and link the various devices you use, since most homes use a single IP address for the whole network. Databases can also map IP addresses to physical locations.— Combatting this: You can mask your IP address by using a secure intermediary. VPN services, common in corporate settings, will route your traffic through a separate IP address; a secure web browser called Tor automatically sends traffic through multiple third parties. You still need to avoid signing in.— The trade-offs: Tor can slow down performance, particularly with high-data tasks such as video. And with VPNs, you need to trust the VPN operator, whether that's your boss or a private service.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Tom WheelerMr. Wheeler is a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.“We have a responsibility to protect your information,” Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, declared recently in a full-page newspaper advertisement. “If we can’t, we don’t deserve it.”It is nice to see Facebook taking some responsibility for the exploitation of the personal information of 50 million of its users in the service of a political campaign. But Mr. Zuckerberg’s comments suggest he still doesn’t get it: What matters is not whether internet companies “deserve” our private information but why we as consumers do not have meaningful ways to protect that data from being siphoned for sale in the first place.The American government has done little to help us in this regard. The Federal Trade Commission merely requires internet companies to have a privacy policy available for consumers to see. A company can change that policy whenever it wants as long as it says it is doing so. As a result, internet companies have been taking our personal property — our private information — while hiding this fact behind lengthy and coercive legalese and cumbersome “opt out” processes.The European Union, however, is handling the problem differently. Starting in May, its General Data Protection Regulation will go into effect in its 28 member nations. The regulation is powerful in its simplicity: It ensures that consumers own their private information and thus have the right to control its usage and that internet companies have an obligation to give consumers the tools to exercise that control.The European rules, for instance, require companies to provide a plain-language description of their information-gathering practices, including how the data is used, as well as have users explicitly “opt in” to having their information collected. The rules also give consumers the right to see what information about them is being held, and the ability to have that information erased.Why don’t we have similar protections in the United States? We almost did. In 2016, the Federal Communications Commission imposed similar requirements on the companies that provide internet service, forcing them to offer an explicit “opt in” for having personal data collected, and to protect the information that was collected.This didn’t last. Internet service providers like Comcast and AT&T and companies that use their connections, like Facebook and Google, lobbied members of Congress. Congress passed a law this year, signed by President Trump, that not only repealed the protections but also prohibited the F.C.C. from ever again imposing such safeguards. The same coalition of corporate interests succeeded in discouraging California from passing a state privacy law similar to the 2016 F.C.C. requirements.Fortunately, the European Union’s law should indirectly help Americans somewhat. In only a few weeks, Facebook, Google and all the other internet companies that collect our private information will have to allow European customers the protections these companies have fought to deny Americans. In an interconnected world where digital code doesn’t respect the geographical or national borders, this will surely have a positive global impact.Internet companies are preparing for a future in which regardless of where a website is based, if it is visited by even a single European Union citizen and if it seeks to collect that person’s data, it must provide that person the protections of the General Data Protection Regulation. Hopefully, this experience will show these companies that protecting privacy is simply the responsible thing to do, not the end of their business.The United States government has a lot of explaining to do. Why is it that American internet companies such as Facebook and Google are required to provide privacy protections when doing business with European consumers but are free to not provide such protections for Americans? Why is it that Americans’ best privacy hope is the secondary effect of interconnected networks rather than privacy protections designed for Americans? Why shouldn’t Americans also be given meaningful tools to protect their privacy?Congress is now considering bipartisan legislation that responds to the problem of Russian targeted political advertising on social media by adding the requirement, long applied to broadcast advertising, that those websites disclose who is paying for their advertisements. But as well intentioned as that step may be, it addresses only a symptom of the problem of the extensive surveillance of Americans, not the root of the problem.The New World must learn from the Old World. The internet economy has made our personal data a corporate commodity. The United States government must return control of that information to its owners.Tom Wheeler, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 2013 to 2017, is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and a fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 1:45 P.M. E.D.T.
RALEIGH, N.C. —  A heated Facebook exchange over President Donald Trump brought Secret Service agents to a North Carolina man's door. But it wasn't until he made a profane defense of his First-Amendment rights that they slapped him with a criminal charge.Mark Rosenberg of Lincolnton posted Facebook comments against Trump and another user last November 28, according to federal court documents. The other user then reported what authorities describe as Rosenberg's threatening language about Trump.When two Secret Service agents came to question Rosenberg in the small city northwest of Charlotte on December 5, he argued about free-speech rights, cursed at them and told them to leave, according to court documents.The documents say Rosenberg continued to curse "and waved his arms throughout the interview and stated several times that the agents had no business being there." Authorities say he also made more threatening comments toward Trump.AdvertisementThat interaction led to a misdemeanor charge of impeding federal agents, who said Rosenberg displayed "aggressive conduct" toward them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Rosenberg has agreed to plead guilty to the charge, according to paperwork signed this month by his lawyer. He's scheduled to appear before a federal judge in Charlotte in April.AdvertisementIt wasn't clear what Rosenberg, a registered unaffiliated voter, said in his initial social-media post. His attorney, Mark Foster, declined to say what the post contained or discuss other aspects of the case when reached by phone Thursday.The Charlotte Observer, which first reported the charge, noted that Rosenberg appears to have deleted the Trump-related comment and many other posts from his account.___Follow Drew on Twitter at www.twitter.com/JonathanLDrew .We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:18 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Fund managers have begun to ditch so-called FANG stocks that powered the U.S. stock market to record highs in January and are slowly rotating into commodity-related shares and other value stocks which typically outperform in late-cycle recoveries.Portfolio managers holding shares of Facebook Inc, Amazon.com Inc, Netflix Inc, and Google-parent Alphabet Inc say they are increasingly concerned that the data scandal that has sent shares of Facebook down nearly 15 percent year-to-date will spill over into all of the FANG stocks, imperiling the broad market's momentum at a time when there are no clear companies or sectors to take their place.On Tuesday, an index which tracks the FANG stocks along with six other mega-cap technology stocks tumbled 6.3 percent, the biggest decline since September 2014.Facebook rose as much as 1.5 percent in early trading Wednesday before falling into the red, one day after sources told Reuters that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before Congress. Amazon.com dropped 4 percent, while Netflix fell 5 percent. Google-parent Alphabet was slightly positive.Advertisement"There are legitimate concerns over the business models of these companies, and I expect that they will be ironed out in legislation" that will likely eat into their profit margins, said Michael Cuggino, a portfolio manager of the $17-billion Permanent Portfolio funds.AdvertisementCuggino, who would not say whether he was selling any of his shares in Facebook, said that commodity and industrial stocks look more attractive now given rising inflation and continued global economic growth.Each FANG company rose more than 33 percent last year, helping power the S&P 500 to a nearly 20-percent gain. Yet those gains have left the broad S&P 500 trading at a high trailing price-to-earnings ratio of 21.7, leaving it overpriced despite a boost to margins from the Republican-led corporate tax cut at the end of 2017."Rising volatility and changing market leadership are now pointing towards the possible conclusion that the stock market peaked in late January 2018," said Douglas Kass, president of Seabreeze Capital Management.The S&P 500 is now down 2.2 percent for the year, and down nearly 10 percent below the high of 2872.87 it reached on Jan. 26.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.UNFRIENDEDFund managers say that the high valuation of FANG stocks and the likelihood of regulation are pushing them into traditional value stocks like energy and defense companies.Connor Browne, a portfolio manager at Thornburg Investment Management, said that he sold his shares of Netflix and Amazon.com last year after both companies blew through his price targets. He used those gains instead to increase positions in energy stocks such as pipeline operator Enterprise Products Partners LP and crude oil shipping company Overseas Shipholding Group Inc that stand to benefit from the recovery in the price of oil."We noticed that in all of this excitement over the FANGs taking over the world, there are parts of the economy that seem really out of favor and offer more compelling opportunities," he said.Even after the selloff, FANG stocks continue to trade at higher valuations than the broad market. Netflix trades at a P/E of 210 and Amazon.com trades at a P/E of 327. Facebook and Google-parent Alphabet, both of which have been directly linked with privacy concerns, now trade at valuations near 52-week lows.AdvertisementThe overhang of increased government oversight has sunk the fortunes of large technology companies in the past. Microsoft Corp reached a settlement in an antitrust case with the Department of Justice in 2002 that lasted until 2011, contributing to a long period of underperformance that kept the stock below the high it reached in 1999 until 2016. Since then, the stock is up nearly 60 percent on the strength of its cloud-based services.Margaret Patel, a senior portfolio manager at Wells Fargo Funds, said that she has been adding to defense stocks like Raytheon Co that should benefit from increasing military spending in both the U.S. and overseas. At the same time, she is increasing her exposure of non-FANG technology stocks like Adobe Systems Inc and Microsoft that have been hurt by the recent sell-off in the sector."It's very hard to see another sector that still has all the fundamental drivers for growing much faster than any other sector," she said.(Reporting by David Randall; Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Nick Zieminski)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:48 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  I'm 57, with a 30-year-old wife, a fairly new hot water boiler, an old-style television, a petrol car and no kids.Actually, none of that is true. But that is what you might believe if you purchased access to my data from the world's largest information broker by market value.The recent revelation that data miner Cambridge Analytica Ltd. improperly accessed 50 million Facebook users' personal data has heightened public concern about the way companies harvest and use our personal data.I asked Arkansas-based Acxiom Corp., which earns over $800 million a year selling consumer profiles to the world's largest companies, what data and insights it held on me.AdvertisementIn Europe and the U.S., companies like Acxiom are allowed to collect data from public and other sources about us. European privacy rules, which are due to be strengthened in coming months, require all data gatherers to disclose to any European who asks what information they hold on them. U.S. law doesn't give Americans the right to this level of disclosure.AdvertisementThe result of my inquiry shows how, even with little raw data, companies attempt to build detailed pictures of individuals' finances, relationships, personal interests and purchasing tastes.These profiles now power the elaborate machinery that delivers advertising across the internet, and can also be used to determine what political issues people are interested in and how they might vote.The question is: How accurate are the pictures they sketch?"AFFLUENT FUN SEEKER"Acxiom - like its rivals - operates by gathering publicly available information from sources like the electoral roll, which gives individuals' addresses, and land registry data, which provides details on home ownership such as purchase price and if there is a mortgage on the property.It also buys data from companies that conduct online surveys, as well as websites where you forgot to tick 'don't share with third parties' and other sources. This data is then put into a proprietary model, which produces a list of data points and propensities, such as the likelihood a consumer might visit a betting shop.Acxiom sells access to these profiles to companies that wish to target advertising at potential customers. Acxiom doesn't have a political arm like Cambridge Analytica does, but the two companies do compete for commercial customers.Facebook, in the wake of the scandal over how it handles personal information, said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network. Shares in Acxiom traded down more than 10 percent to $25 following Facebook's announcement.The results for a single individual obviously don't tell us too much about the accuracy of a database that Acxiom says contains 47 million UK profiles and insights into 700 million consumers worldwide.AdvertisementAlso, it seems I am a bad data subject since I usually opt out when asked to give companies data sharing rights."Where we have more self-reported, privacy-compliant data about individuals, we can be more accurate. In your case, we held very little of this data and the majority of the variables linked to you, are modelled, based on both your postcode and the household history," Acxiom said in a statement.My Acxiom profile has around 750 individual data fields under a dozen categories from "household composition" to "employment & income" and "lifestyle & interests." It categorizes me as an “affluent fun-seeker.”. The accuracy of that description depends on your definition, I suppose, but some of the information is plain wrong.To start with, I'm 46 years old, not 57. I won't reveal my wife's age, but I will confirm that when I got married at age 34, it wasn't to a teenager. Two children mean we're not "empty nesters," I drive a diesel car and our boiler is more than 15 years old, not less than five years as Acxiom identifies it as.That could be a disappointment for the companies including Tesco supermarket, Twitter, Ford Motor Company and Facebook to whom Acxiom said it may have provided my data in the past year. Or maybe not.PROFILE ERRORSThe fact that my profile contains errors isn't necessarily a problem for marketers said Carol Hargreaves, a professor and director of the Data Analytics Consulting Center at the National University of Singapore.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.What really matters is the predictions of one's behavior, interests and propensity to buy certain kinds of products."The things you sell to a male of 46 or a male of 57 are the same," Hargreaves said.In some potentially key areas, the data is certainly better than a random guess. It predicted that I had just a 5.2 percent probability of being self-employed, rather than employed. Official data shows around 17 percent of Britons are self-employed.Acxiom's prediction of my household income was also much closer to the actual number than the average published by the Greater London Authority for my electoral ward, or local electoral district, the narrowest official estimate.AdvertisementBut if purchase decisions are driven by lifestyle interests, the data collected on me is of little use to marketers.My predicted annual car mileage was 8,000 to 10,000 miles, based on "modelled probability." This figure echoes the 8,405 miles that car breakdown group the RAC says the average London motorist drives each year. But it's over twice my annual mileage.Acxiom incorrectly says I don't have a flat screen television, something it "derived through modeling," even though a UK government report from 2013 says most households do.One in seven Britons is a member of a gym, according to a 2017 industry survey; Acxiom reckons there's a 47.5 percent chance that I am interested in belonging to a gym. My last subscription expired over a decade ago.Acxiom also thinks I am more likely to be interested in crossword puzzles – I haven't done one since the 1980s – than in current affairs, which has been my working life for 20 years.On the positive side, there are indications Acxiom doesn't engage in racial profiling: The company predicts I have a 13.6 percent probability of interest in regularly going to a bar. I asked Hargreaves, the professor, if this seemed a statistically reasonable estimate for an Irish journalist. After she stopped laughing, Hargreaves said accurate predictions hinged on the raw data on which the profile is based.BAND WAGONAcxiom said individual inaccuracies didn't undermine the value of its service."We know from working with leading brands, that data helps them deliver more accurate and relevant marketing to customers at scale... The key factor here is, 'at scale'," it said in a statement.Annabel Kilner, Chief Commercial Officer at furniture retailer MADE.com said consumer data helped firms deliver messages that consumers found relevant.Advertisement"We adopt a test and learn approach to optimizing our campaigns," Kilner said.Xiaojing Dong, associate professor of marketing and business analytics at Santa Clara University in Silicon Valley, said that qualitative predictions like those produced by Acxiom gave advertisers a much better idea of who they are reaching.But Hargreaves said there was concern among some advertisers that the consumer profiles they purchase from data aggregators may not always be worth the large fees involved. Hargreaves said she is about to start working with clients of companies like Acxiom to ascertain whether they were getting value for money."Some of the data vendors are just jumping on the band wagon," she said.The key to accurate profiling, experts said, was good raw data. The best is held by those companies with whom we have the deepest interactions – social media giants like Facebook or Twitter and retailers like Amazon.com.Stephan Lewandowsky, a professor of cognitive psychology at the University of Bristol in Britain, said that explains why companies like Cambridge Analytica would be so eager to access Facebook data."The difference between using the electoral roll and Facebook is that the information we reveal on Facebook is sufficient for a computer program to infer our personality with greater accuracy than our own spouse," he said.(Reporting by Tom Bergin; Editing by Cassell Bryan-Low)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 1:11 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  French President Emmanuel Macron promised 1.5 billion euros ($1.85 billion) of public funding into artificial intelligence by 2022 in a bid to reverse a brain drain and catch up with the dominant U.S. and Chinese tech giants.The investment is part of an AI strategy laid out by the centrist leader at the elite College de France research institute in Paris and builds on a report that points to the assets and drawbacks of France in the field.Business-friendly Macron wants to turn France into a "start up nation" and bets that easing labor laws and higher investments technology will create jobs, alleviate the domination of Alphabet's Google, Facebook and lay out the seeds for Europe-based champions."There's no chance of controlling any effects (of these technologies) or having a say on any adverse effect if we've missed the start of the war," the president said on Thursday in front of a row of ministers and top executives, including BNP Paribas Jean-Laurent Bonnafé.AdvertisementHe spoke between two black boards covered with complex equations in the main amphitheatre of the institute, founded in the 16th century.AdvertisementThe first goal is to make better use of the French higher education system that trains computer engineers and mathematicians only to see them leave for jobs at top U.S. tech companies.Some of them have secured high-level positions Google and Facebook, and Facebook, which opened an AI research center in Paris in 2015."What a waste," said Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire earlier on Thursday. "France pays for the training of doctoral students who then head to the United States."LADY GAGA OF MATHEMATICSThe AI plan was inspired by a government-commissioned report by Cedric Villani, the self-styled "Lady Gaga of Mathematics" and winner of the mathematics equivalent of the Nobel Prize.Villani, who is also a lawmaker in Macron's party, said in the report the brain drain to Silicon Valley companies showed the excellence of French schools and justified a doubling of their salaries -- a proposal that was eventually left out.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The report also pointed to the need for greater collaboration between government research centers and private companies to keep the best minds at home, an idea that was praised by Macron and could lead an easing of the conditions needed for state researchers to work in for private companies.Macron's AI plan calls for the opening up of data collected by state-owned organizations such as France's centralized healthcare system to drive up efficiency through AI -- the field in computer science that aims to create machines able to perceive the environment and make decisions.The amount to be spent, about $450 million, represents a drop in the ocean of AI spending worldwide, which consultancy firm McKinsey estimated between $20 and 30 billion for the biggest tech companies alone in 2016.AdvertisementIn a sign Macron's efforts to woo top scientists and businesses may be starting to bear fruit, Samsung Electronics , Japan's Fujitsu and London-based Google-owned DeepMind announced plans to beef up their operations in Paris earlier.IBM also announced on Thursday its intentions to recruit 400 AI experts in France over the next two years.Before unveiling his plan, Macron hosted a dinner with about a dozen AI experts at the Elysee palace.Guests included Yann LeCun - the New York-based Frenchman who until recently ran Facebook's AI research lab - and Demis Hassabis of London-based DeepMind, creator of the AlphaGo system that in 2016 beat an elite human player of the Chinese game "Go".(Additional reporting by Marine Pennetier; Editing by Richard Lough, Leigh Thomas and Richard Balmforfth)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:12 P.M. E.D.T.
DENVER —  The U.S. government didn't find Coors Light beer laced with cocaine, despite claims that originated on a satirical website.The article claiming the Food and Drug Administration discovered "thousands" of contaminated beers nationwide first appeared in 2014 at the site huzlers. The claims continue to be shared via social media.The story quoted an FDA employee named Arnold Francis and said the agency ordered Coors Light production halted for at least 30 days after thousands of people reported feeling "weird, high and even sick" after drinking the beer."This story is not true," said FDA spokesman Peter Cassell. He noted the primary federal regulatory authority for alcohol is not the FDA but the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, which is part of the Treasury Department. He added that no one with Francis' name works at FDA and there are no related consumer complaints in its public database.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 2:42 P.M. E.D.T.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. —  No employees of the Clinton Foundation were arrested on the first day of a corruption probe, despite the claims in a widely shared online story.The conservative satire site ladiesofliberty first published the article claiming 22 people were arrested on charges that included drug trafficking, money laundering and perjury. Other conservative websites have since run stories with identical wording. The story cites U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions and says one of those arrested is Frank Murphy, identified as running the Clinton "security" company.There is no record of Sessions announcing the arrests. A spokesman for the Clinton Foundation says the arrests "did not happen" and Murphy "does not exist."In January, two people familiar with an investigation confirmed to The Associated Press that the FBI is investigating whether the Clinton Foundation accepted donations in exchange for political favors while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state. The people were not authorized to discuss the investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. It was unclear when the probe began, but the sources told AP it had been ongoing for several months.___Associated Press writers Sadie Gurman and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 4:54 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Thursday:PVH Corp., up $7.41 to $151.43The owner of the Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger brands reported earnings and revenue that easily beat analysts' forecasts.Acxiom Corp., down $5.31 to $22.71The marketing database provider said Facebook told the company it was ending a partnership program they were involved in.Energizer Holdings Inc.,  up $6.55 to $59.58The battery maker said regulators allowed the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period for its acquisition of Spectrum Bands to expire.Constellation Brands Inc., up $7.43 to $227.92The wine, liquor and beer company's latest quarterly results came in ahead of analysts' expectations.AdvertisementGameStop Corp., down $1.53 to $12.62The video game retailer issued a disappointing full-year revenue and earnings outlook, overshadowing strong quarterly results.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Movado Group Inc., up $5.20 to $38.40The watchmaker's results were far better than analysts expected.Science Applications International Corp., up $5.53 to $78.80The technology company posted results for its fourth fiscal quarter that came in well ahead of what analysts were looking for.AdvertisementProgress Software Corp., down 3 cents to $38.45The business software maker posted earnings and revenue that beat forecasts.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 4:15 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):4 p.m.Stocks are closing out a volatile quarter with another surge in technology companies, which have been on a roller-coaster ride this week.The gains Thursday weren't enough to erase the market's first quarterly loss since 2015. After years of slow-and-steady growth, the market plunged in early February, marking its first 10 percent drop in two years.Facebook jumped 4.4 percent, clawing back some of the ground it's lost recently amid a widening privacy scandal.Banks and retailers also rose.The S&P 500 rose 35 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,640.The Dow Jones industrial average rose 254 points, or 1.1 percent, to 24,103. The Nasdaq composite gained 114 points, or 1.6 percent, to 7,063.AdvertisementBond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.74 percent.___11:45 a.m.U.S. stocks rose sharply on the last day of trading ahead of the Easter holiday weekend.AdvertisementTechnology stocks, which were big decliners earlier in the week, powered much of the market's climb Thursday. Apple rose 2 percent.Banks, industrial companies and energy stocks also notched solid gains.Beverage maker Constellation Brands jumped 3.6 percent after reporting a solid quarter. PVH, which owns Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger, rose 5.3 percent after its own results beat expectations.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The S&P 500 rose 30 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,635.The Dow Jones industrial average rose 287 points, or 1.2 percent, to 24,137. The Nasdaq composite gained 81 points, or 1.2 percent, to 7,030.Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.75 percent.___9:35 a.m.Stocks are opening broadly higher on Wall Street on the last day of what has turned out to be an extraordinarily rocky quarter.Technology companies and banks led the gains in early trading Thursday. Facebook rose 1.8 percent and Wells Fargo climbed 1 percent.Beverage maker Constellation Brands jumped 2.6 percent after reporting a solid quarter. PVH, which owns Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger, rose 6.6 percent after its own results beat expectations.The S&P 500 rose 15 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,621.The Dow Jones industrial average rose 180 points, or 0.8 percent, to 24,030. The Nasdaq composite gained 25 points, or 0.3 percent, to 6,971.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — A committee of British lawmakers published written evidence on Thursday provided by a whistleblower who says information about 50 million Facebook users ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica said the documents did not support whistleblower Christopher Wylie's testimony to the committee this week.Wylie, who formerly worked for Cambridge Analytica (CA), alleges the data was used to help to build profiles on American voters and raise support for Donald Trump in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.He also alleges that CA was linked to Canadian firm AggregateIQ (AIQ), which he says was involved in the development of the software used to target voters. AggregateIQ, he says, received payment from a pro-Brexit campaign group before the 2016 referendum when Britain voted to quit the European Union. This was co-ordinated with the lead "Vote Leave" group in a breach of British electoral funding rules, Wylie alleged. Vote Leave denies any wrongdoing.Wylie appeared before the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee of the British parliament on Tuesday. The committee said Wylie provided it with documents including a services agreement between AIQ and SCL Elections, an affiliate of Cambridge Analytica, dated September 2014.Reuters was unable to independently verify the authenticity of the documents made public by the committee."None of these documents support the false allegations made in Tuesday's hearing," Cambridge Analytica said in a statement, adding that Wylie had left the company in July 2014 and would have no direct knowledge of its work or practices since then."It is wrong to suggest that Cambridge Analytica's earlier relationship with Aggregate IQ implies that we were involved with their work for Vote Leave. Cambridge Analytica did no work in any capacity in the 2016 EU referendum."AIQ did not respond to a Reuters request for comment after Tuesday's committee hearing, but in an earlier statement said it had never entered into a contract with Cambridge Analytica and had never been part of the firm.The parliamentary committee's chairman has said it was "astonishing" that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg decided not to answer lawmakers' questions, given the claims that Wylie had made about how data was used. (Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Andrew Roche and David Stamp)AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:21 P.M. E.D.T.
DETROIT —  The more than 400 people U.S. prosecutors charged in a health care fraud scheme last year weren't all Muslim nor from a single Midwestern state, despite claims in a story being shared widely online.The story on the site mydeeptruth includes a misleading headline and provides no evidence that all the suspects are Muslim or from Michigan. The article blames Obama administration immigration policies for turning Michigan into what it calls a "Sharia swamp."Last July, federal prosecutors did charge at least 412 people in more than 20 states in connection with health care and opioid fraud scams, including more than 100 health care professionals. Thirty-two Medicare fraud cases were in the Eastern District of Michigan and some of the 96 people charged with defrauding Medicaid were in Michigan. Federal officials included no mention of the religion of the suspects.At the time, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions called it the "largest health care fraud takedown operation in American history."___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 3:18 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Liberal billionaire philanthropist George Soros and his foundations did not pay protesters to rally against gun violence in the U.S. capital.The Tea Party Commander Center blog claimed Soros paid protesters $300 each at the March for Our Lives in Washington on March 24. The piece included an image of an online advertisement that it said Soros organizers posted, but the ad is a freelance job listing for people to sell merchandise at a sister march in Los Angeles."Neither Mr. Soros nor the Open Society Foundations paid protesters," said Laura Silber, the foundations' chief communications officer.Students organized the rallies after a Feb. 14 shooting that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Some survivors have called for a ban on high-capacity magazines and assault-type weapons, comprehensive background checks for gun buyers and a higher minimum age to purchase guns.Soros is known for his support of American liberal and progressive causes. He is a frequent target of conspiracy theories.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:41 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Former Atalanta, Fiorentina and Torino coach Emiliano Mondonico has died at the age of 71 after losing his battle with cancer, the Italian news agency Ansa said on Thursday.Much-loved Mondonico, who also coached Napoli, Cremonese and a number of other Italian clubs, led Torino to the Italian Cup in 1993 and the UEFA Cup final in 1992.He also guided Atalanta to the semi-finals of the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1988 when they were still competing in Italy's second tier.Mondonico famously lifted his chair over his head in protest at a refereeing decision during the 1992 UEFA Cup final second leg. Torino lost the final to Ajax Amsterdam, led by former Netherlands and Manchester United coach Louis van Gaal, on the away goals rule."Bye Dad... you were our example and our strength... now we'll try to do as you taught us,"  Mondonico's daughter Clara said on Facebook.Mondonico had been fighting cancer for seven years and was forced to retire from coaching in 2012.(Reporting by Angel Krasimirov; Editing by Keith Weir)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 9:51 A.M. E.D.T.
TAIPEI, Taiwan —  People who knew the 18-year-old Taiwanese exchange student charged in the U.S. with threatening to shoot up his school say he liked guns and flamethrowers and had dreams of a police career.An Tso Sun, who has been jailed in the state of Pennsylvania, was "a child who really cares about things," said Cheng Wei-ting, a tutor who home-schooled Sun in Taiwan's capital, Taipei."He was an extremely simple and kind student, yet he would often have unusual ideas," Cheng said.Sun idealized the famed Taiwanese-American forensics scientist Lee Chang-yu and wanted eventually to study criminal psychology at an American university, his father's friend Tuo Zong-kang told reporters Thursday."He planned to study in the same fields as Lee, such as criminal psychology and forensics," Tuo said.AdvertisementSun's case comes as school shootings in the United States, including the deaths this month of 17 students and teachers in Parkland, Florida, have triggered some of the biggest youth protests in recent years and calls for stronger gun control measures.AdvertisementSun threatened to commit a shooting on May 1 at the Monsignor Bonner and Archbishop Prendergast High School he attended, according to police in the Pennsylvania town of Upper Darby.They said he had live ammunition, a military-style ballistic vest, ammunition clip pouches and a high-powered crossbow in the home where he was staying in the town of Lansdowne, and had researched how to buy weapons.Sun later said his threat was only a joke, but he was arrested Tuesday and has been charged with making terroristic threats.Defense attorney Enrique Latoison said Wednesday his client "had no intention or plans" to commit a school shooting and many items found were what he wore to school for a Halloween costume contest. He said his client said he was "Just kidding."Sun's latest Facebook post, from October, shows a person dressed in army fatigues, headphones and a brown ski mask carrying what could be an automatic firearm.A February 2017 post that was also his Facebook background cover photo shows orange flames being fired beside a cement wall and stairwells leading into a ravine.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.An earlier Facebook post — one of several flamethrower images on the site — is the image of a book titled "How to Make A Flamethrower: The Do It Yourself Manual." Sun made similar YouTube videos.Sun once made a flamethrower as part of a school science fair, said Cheng, his former tutor. He thought "a day would come when zombies would appear," she added. He had also devised an escape route from his home, she said.Advertisement"What I recall most is that when these school shootings happened in America, he would tell me that if he had been on the scene he would definitely be the first to protect his classmates, so he needs to have a strong physique," said Cheng, who added that she once helped him research how to join a police SWAT team.Sun's parents, actor and assistant film director Sun Peng and actress Di Ying, could not be reached for comment. But Di told Taiwanese broadcaster Sanlih E-Television that her son was a "military affairs fan" who was "making a joke" about his school in the U.S.Tuo, his father's friend, told reporters he remembers Sun as "a very polite kid who had good grades, very disciplined and very kindhearted.""He lives in a family full of warmth, and his parents are very kind to him," Tuo said. Regarding his arrest, he said, "I think it is a very, very big misunderstanding."Before moving to Pennsylvania, the teenager completed two years of high school at the private Kang Chiao International School in New Taipei City, publicity head Wu Hao-ming said.Prior to that, he achieved average grades at the private Wego Elementary School in Taipei, where he was popular among peers and teachers and showed no interest in guns, academic director Liu Jen-hao said."So this matter (in the United States) we find rather surprising," Liu said.Sun was taken to Delaware County Prison in lieu of $100,000 bail. A preliminary hearing is scheduled for April 11.___This story has been corrected to show the tutor's name is Wei-ting, not Chu-yi.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 1:29 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  The turbulent start to 2018 in financial markets has finally brought an end to one of the longest ever global bull runs - and there have been few places to hide.After last year's tranquillity, as the charts below show, investors have had it all thrown at them this quarter, from the biggest ever rise in stock volatility to rapidly escalating tensions over global trade, deepening turmoil in the White House and major tech sector wobbles.A "melt-up" that sent the MSCI's world share index up 8 percent in January suddenly evaporated. Now the Dow Jones, S&P 500, FTSE Nikkei and scores of other big markets are all down for the year.As a set, the FAANGs (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google) are still up over 10 percent, but privacy concerns after it was revealed that 50 million Facebook users' data was misused has wiped $400 billion off their value. Not exactly small change.Advertisement"January was a boom month, but there was clearly complacency coming into the market," said London & Capital's head of equities Roger Jones. "That has all changed now".Advertisement(GRAPHIC - The sinking FAANGs: https://reut.rs/2GhhYIe)Cryptocurrency Bitcoin <BTC=BTSP> has lost 43 percent as well.Still, it hasn't been a one-way "risk-off" doom-fest for markets by any means.Galloping global growth mean commodities like oil <LCOc1> are up for a third quarter running, stocks in the world's poorest 'frontier' countries are up 4 percent, and Italian bonds have made almost 6 percent returns despite an inconclusive election.After a stellar 2017, emerging market 'local' currency bonds have done well again too as the Chinese yuan <CNY=>, Mexican and Colombian pesos <MXN=><CLP=> and South Africa's rand <ZAR=> have all rallied hard.So has Britain's Brexit-bound pound. It has had its best quarter since early 2015 and not only against a dollar <GDP=D4> which is locked in its worst run since the financial crisis, but also versus the euro <GBPEUR=>.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The (political) momentum is to make Brexit work now," said one central banker privately.What the choppy conditions have also reminded people of is the value of a good old-fashioned safe-haven.Japan's yen <JPY=> is up over 6 percent, gold <XAU=> is up for a third straight quarter, and the ultra-safe German Bund has made just over 3 percent in dollar terms as its yields have gone in an almost-perfect arc. <DE10YT=RR>But some of the heavyweight central banks like the U.S. Federal Reserve, ECB, Peoples Bank of China, Bank of England and Bank of Canada are still looking to raise interest rates. Unlike Bunds, U.S. Treasuries <US10YT=RR> have lost 3 percent.It is one of the reasons that stocks have been shaky of course, and it remains one of the main things shaping many investors' view on the rest of the year.Advertisement"One thing that it is going to be important to get right now is where to be when bond yields are going up," said SEB investment management's global head of asset allocation Hans Peterson."We are rotating from the old regime of low interest and growth stocks like the FAANGs into a new world... and that creates volatility."(GRAPHIC - Global market performances in Q1: https://reut.rs/2pQ4fBd)(GRAPHIC - Global FX in 2018: https://reut.rs/2pPldj5)(Reporting by Marc Jones; Editing by Hugh Lawson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:21 P.M. E.D.T.
DES MOINES, Iowa —  The Iowa Supreme Court on Friday upheld the conviction of a high school teacher who claimed his only physical contact with the student was hugging, finding that the hugging amounted to sexual misconduct in light of instant messages that showed she had "become the object of" his sexual desires.Bradley Wickes, a 38-year-old former Camanche High School social studies teacher, was convicted in 2015 of a charge of sexual exploitation by a school employee and sentenced to five years in prison.Although the only physical contact Wickes had with the 17-year-old student were hugs at school and school-related events, the court concluded that more than a thousand Facebook Messenger exchanges between them over 45 days indicated that she had "become the object of Wickes's fantasies and sexual desires, and the hugs that coincided with these messages were for his sexual gratification."Wickes challenged the conclusion that hugging a student constituted sexual conduct. But the justices ruled against him, pointing out that rulings in other states — including Maryland in 2013, Oregon in 2009 and Vermont in 2006 — found that hugging can constitute sexual exploitation in certain cases. They said they would not narrow the scope of the teacher sexual exploitation law by finding that hugs alone cannot amount to sexual conduct.AdvertisementThe court acknowledged that there was no evidence showing that Wickes had engaged in a sex act with the teen or any physical contact other than hugging, but it said the Facebook Messenger exchanges show how attractive he found her and how he wanted a more intimate relationship with her.Advertisement"Of critical importance in our analysis is the context and circumstances that surrounded the physical contact — the hugs — that are at issue here," the court said. This context begins with Wickes initiating the text messaging and "continues with the scenario of a 36-year-old teacher incessantly messaging a 17-year-old female student to describe intimate details of his marriage and his sexual frustrations."In one exchange, he wrote to her: "You're hot obviously. But you're soulful. I don't know how to explain it you're just captivating" and "you make me feel great."In another, Wickes described how he liked to give sensual back rubs by "lightly caressing with finger tips and . . . spelling out words." He told the girl that he had "magical fingers," and that he would "trac(e) along the back side of the leg and circles around the knee."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Following this exchange, Wickes asked the girl, "Do you delete these messages? I think I'd be killed if your dad found them."Within days of that message, the girl's family discovered the relationship and took her cellphone to the police. Wickes resigned and was charged soon thereafter.Although the justices determined that the hugging was illegal in this case, they said teachers shouldn't be overly worried about innocent hugs with students."It is important to note that nothing should prohibit teachers from hugging students for reassurance, comfort, or in congratulation without putting themselves at risk of being charged with the crime of sexual exploitation," the court wrote.The court also upheld Wickes' five-year prison sentence, finding that it wasn't cruel or unusual punishment."The fact that Wickes's crime involved hugs instead of an actual sex act does not take away from the emotional and psychological toll his actions had on the student he exploited," the court said, adding "his punishment reflects the fact that Wickes abused his position of trust as a teacher to sexually exploit a student for his own gratification."AdvertisementWickes' attorneys didn't immediately reply to a phone message seeking comment about the ruling.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRISTINE HAUSERMARCH 30, 2018
A young black transgender woman was shot dead in a Louisiana motel this week, becoming at least the seventh transgender woman known to have been killed in the United States this year, rights advocates said.The woman, Amia Tyrae, 28, was killed Monday at about 1:15 a.m. at a motel on Airline Highway, according to the Baton Rouge Police Department.Dr. William Clark, the East Baton Rouge Parish coroner, ruled Ms. Tyrae’s death a homicide, caused by a gunshot wound to the chest.The Police Department said Friday night that Dedrick Butler, 22, of Denham Springs, La., had been arrested in the killing. He was charged with second-degree murder, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, and possession of a firearm with an obliterated serial number.
            .@HRC mourns the loss Amia Tyrae Berryman, a transgender woman of color fatally shot in Louisiana. Her death is now the 7th known reported homicide of a trans woman in 2018. #SayHerName https://t.co/yMCccBFnr9 Between 25 to 28 transgender people were reported killed in the United States last year, the highest number in at least a decade, according to a report by the Human Rights Campaign and the Trans People of Color Coalition. The violence disproportionately affects transgender women of color.AdvertisementThe killing of Ms. Tyrae came less than a month after the shooting death of another transgender woman, Phylicia Mitchell, 46, outside her apartment in Cleveland on Feb. 23. Transgender women were also killed in New Mexico, Florida, New York, Massachusetts and California this year, according to data compiled by Glaad.AdvertisementMs. Tyrae worked at a home health care company, according to her Facebook page.Relatives declined to comment on Ms. Tyrae’s death. Friends and family said on Facebook that a funeral service would be held in Baton Rouge on Saturday.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.NeVaa White, a friend, told Mic that Ms. Tyrae had been out since at least 2009, and had a close community of friends. “She made family with her peers in the L.G.B.T. community of Baton Rouge,” Ms. White said, adding that Ms. Tyrae didn’t have an easy life, and that she “was taken away in the very manner she feared.”Statistics on homicides of transgender people are difficult to compile and are not officially available because the federal government does not collect data based on gender identity. In addition, transgender homicide victims are often identified by the police using the names and genders they were assigned at birth, a practice known as misgendering.Advocates emphasize that their tallies just include the victims they know about.“It is impossible to have a complete and accurate number,” MJ Okma, an associate director at Glaad, said.Transgender people frequently face economic hardships, discrimination in housing and hiring, and high rates of homelessness, Mr. Okma said, all factors that can contribute to systematic violence. “That becomes the greater context,” he said.In 2016 in Louisiana, Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, issued an executive order that protected L.G.B.T. employees and contractors from discrimination, the first time that the state had explicitly recognized the equal rights of transgender people, according to the American Civil Liberties Union.But transgender people have continued to be targeted in the state. Three transgender women were murdered there in an eight-day period in February 2017.“Violence against trans people, mostly trans women of color and often resulting in death, continues to plague our communities,” the group Louisiana Trans Advocates said at the time.Advertisement“We must also recognize that the shameful content and tone of the national discourse on trans issues contribute to stigmatization and dehumanization that lower the barriers to this kind of violence,” the organization said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Global proceeds from initial public offerings (IPO) rose to $39 billion (£27.8 billion) in the first quarter of 2018, the highest since 2014, as companies rushed to take advantage of generally strong equity markets and robust economic growth amid signs they may not last. Companies raised a total of $186.7 billion in equity, up 3.5 percent from the same period last year, Thomson Reuters Equity Capital Markets (ECM) data to March 26 showed. Activity fell in Europe, though, after several big bank fundraisings last year.Global IPO proceeds jumped almost 26 percent to $38.9 billion, driven by strong increases in Europe and the Americas."CEO confidence is up, investor activity is up and valuations are attractive because of a strong secondary market. Corporates are taking advantage of that," Gareth McCartney, head of Europe Middle East and Africa (EMEA) ECM syndicate at UBS said, adding an early Easter also encouraged issuers to push ahead with IPO plans.European IPO proceeds more than tripled, with two of the three largest offerings globally coming from Germany: the long awaited listing of Siemens's 28 billion euro ($35 billion) medical equipment arm Healthineers and Deutsche Bank's 6.5 billion euro asset management arm. "Pockets of Europe are increasingly attractive to investors, with German and French leadership secure," said Philip Drury, head of EMEA capital markets at Citi, referring to elections last year in both countries. After unusual market calm in 2017, 2018 began with a sell-off in January and February and the biggest ever rise in stock volatility. Rapidly escalating tensions over global trade, with a threat of U.S. tariffs on up to $60 billion of imports from China, and major tech sector wobbles were keenly felt by markets. Bankers also blamed the looming end to central bank bond buying programmes, which had helped inflate asset prices and stoke growth, for the increased market sensitivity."Currently, there is more nervousness within market participants relative to this time last year. Having said that, issuers need to move forward into windows when available. Increased rhetoric from the U.S. has an impact on the global capital markets,” Drury said.In Europe, a large rights issue to help Bayer fund its planned $66 billion takeover of Monsanto is anticipated.A series of large IPOs is also expected in the region in the second and third quarters, but some bankers caution the chain of upcoming listings reflects sentiment from last year, when companies would have decided to go to market.Bankers are also looking ahead to the potential listing of U.S. tech unicorns - companies that have achieved $1 billion valuations without tapping stock markets - such as Uber and Airbnb, to see if they can shrug off a recent sell off in the FAANGs (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google)on privacy concerns after it was revealed that 50 million Facebook users' data was misused."The market rally that we've seen in the U.S. was incredibly narrow with a small number of companies creating a disproportionate amount of value. It's a bit of profit taking and does not necessarily translate to a broader rotation out of technology," McCartney said. Morgan Stanley topped the league table for global ECM issuance overall and global IPOs.  (Reporting by Dasha Afanasieva; Editing by Mark Potter)AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 2:26 A.M. E.D.T.
BANGKOK —  A Thai editor faces possible criminal charges for sharing a student's "disrespectful" picture of historic kings wearing face masks to highlight air pollution in the northern city of Chiang Mai.The governor of Chiang Mai told Reuters on Sunday that he believed Pim Kemasingki, editor of the Chiang Mai Citylife magazine, had breached the Computer Crime Act by sharing the picture."It is up to the police to gather evidence," Pawin Chamniprasart said.In a letter to police, he wrote that the kings are worshipped and respected in Chiang Mai and "using the picture with the three kings wearing masks is disrespectful."Thailand's cyber crime law, which criminalizes defamation and obscenity, has been widely critisized by international rights groups for curtailing freedom of expression.AdvertisementPim, a Thai-British national, said the image of the three statues wearing masks had been shared on a Facebook page publicizing a "Right to Breathe" anti-air pollution rally that had later been canceled at the request of the governor.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I shared this picture thinking it was pertinent and powerful," Pim told Reuters."For decades I've been promoting the city and loving it... so it's quite unsettling that fighting for healthy air for my fellow citizens has turned into me besmirching the city."AdvertisementRecently, Thailand has suffered from some of its worst air pollution in years.Achariya Ruangrattanapong, a lawyer for Pim, said he was confident that sharing the picture was not a violation of the cyber crime law."How can this be a computer crime if it involves a picture that a child drew?" he said.Pawin said he was not seeking charges of royal insult against Pim. Under Thailand's strict lese majeste law, those found guilty of insulting the monarchy face up to 15 years in prison.(Additional reporting by Panu Wongcha-um; Writing by Amy Sawitta Lefevre; Editing by Matthew Tostevin and Kim Coghill)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:45 P.M. E.D.T.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Friday:1. RUSSIA BOOTS 150 DIPLOMATS, INCLUDING 60 AMERICANSThe move is a quid pro quo reply to the wave of Western expulsions of Russian diplomats over the poisoning of an ex-spy and his daughter in Britain.2. FUNERAL HELD FOR SLAIN BLACK MANA standing-room-only crowd packs a church to celebrate the life of 22-year-old Stephon Clark, the focus of angry protests since he was shot to death by Sacramento police.3. TRUSTED TRUMP AIDE EXITSWith a handshake and a kiss on the cheek from the president, Hope Hicks bids farewell to the White House.4. JOLT FOR COFFEE DRINKERSA Los Angeles judge rules that California law requires coffee companies to carry a cancer warning label.Advertisement5. WHO'S QUESTIONING TRUMP'S CHOICE TO LEAD VAVeterans' groups and others aren't sure that Dr. Ronny Jackson has the experience to manage an agency paralyzed over the administration's push to expand private care.Advertisement6. FIREWORKS, RIGHT OFF THE BATGiancarlo Stanton quickly gets into the swing with his new team, ripping two home runs in the Yankees' 6-1 opening day win over Toronto.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.7. 'HE DIDN'T DESERVE TO DIE LIKE THIS'Relatives of 68 people killed in a fire at a crowded Venezuelan police station jail struggle to find out what happened to their loved ones and why conditions were so abysmal.8. NICOLAS SARKOZY ORDERED TO COURTThe former French president must stand trial on charges of corruption and influence peddling.9. FACEBOOK PREPS FOR ELECTIONThe social network says it's making progress weeding out fake accounts and fake news, an effort aimed at preventing interference ahead of the U.S. midterms.10. SETBACK FOR BILL COSBY'S DEFENSE TEAMThe judge in the entertainer's sexual assault trial rejects demands that he step aside because his wife is a social worker and advocate for assault victims.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:03 P.M. E.D.T.
HARTFORD, Conn. —  A Connecticut lawmaker accused of sending affectionate text messages to a 16-year-old girl resigned Thursday, three weeks after he told House Democratic leaders he would be doing so.Rep. Angel Arce said in a resignation letter submitted to Secretary of the State Denise Merrill that he didn't want his "presence to be distraction to the very important work that occurs at the Capitol" and did not want his "family, friends and supporters to be burdened in any way." The resignation is effective April 9.Two fellow Democrats, Gov. Dannel P. Malloy and House Speaker Joe Aresimowicz, had called on the former assistant majority leader to resign at the beginning of the month after the Hartford Courant published a series of text messages the 57-year-old grandfather allegedly sent to the teen in 2015. One read, "good night love and sweet dreams and thank you for coming into my life."Other messages included, "you are so beautiful and gorgeous" and "I think we going to keep a lot of secrets between us."AdvertisementThe Courant said the messages apparently were sent from Arce's Facebook Messenger account and were provided to the newspaper by the teen, who is now 18.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Jeffrey Kestenband, Arce's lawyer, has said his client did nothing improper, and he would not comment further.In his letter, Arce thanked his family, friends and supporters for their "unwavering encouragement and support over the past few weeks."  He did not say why he waited so long to submit his resignation letter.AdvertisementA special election will likely be held sometime in mid-May to fill the now-vacant 4th Assembly District seat Arce has held for five years.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 9:00 A.M. E.D.T.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. —  The suspect in the Florida high school shooting that killed 17 is getting letters of support in jail including fan mail and pictures of scantily-clad women in addition to hundreds of dollars in contributions to his commissary account.Teenage girls, women and men are sending letters and photographs of themselves and Facebook groups have been started to discuss how to help Nikolas Cruz, the South Florida Sun-Sentinel reports.Cruz is charged in the killings of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, and is being held in the Broward County Jail. Prosecutors said they are seeking the death penalty.The newspaper obtained copies of letters, including one from a woman who called Cruz "beautiful" and others with suggestive photos.AdvertisementCruz, who is on suicide watch, has not seen any of the letters, which are opened by the jail.On March 15, a teenager sent a letter from Texas inside an envelope with happy faces and hearts.Advertisement"I'm 18-years-old. I'm a senior in high school. When I saw your picture on the television, something attracted me to you," the letter stated. "Your eyes are beautiful and the freckles on your face make you so handsome."Another letter told Cruz to "Hang in there and keep your head up" and another mailed six days after the shooting said "I reserve the right to care about you, Nikolas!"Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Public Defender Howard Finkelstein, Cruz's lawyer, told the newspaper that his client has indeed received "piles of letters."In addition, $800 has been deposited into a commissary account which can be used by inmates to buy snacks, radios and personal hygiene products."In my 40 years as public defender, I've never seen this many letters to a defendant," Finkelstein said. "Everyone now and then gets a few, but nothing like this."Finkelstein said they have read a "few religious ones to him" but will not read him any fan letters or share any photographs."The letters shake me up because they are written by regular, everyday teenage girls from across the nation," he said.___Information from: Sun Sentinel , http://www.sun-sentinel.com/We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 11:20 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Oklahoma's Senate on Wednesday approved legislation for the first major tax increase in a quarter century to help fund pay raises for teachers and avert a strike.Low teacher pay in the United States came into focus earlier this month when educators in West Virginia, whose pay is slightly higher than in Oklahoma, held a nine-day strike that ended after they received a 5 percent pay rise.The Oklahoma measure, which will raise about $450 million to fund increased pay for teachers, school staff and state workers, had already passed the state House and Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin said on Wednesday she would sign it into law.But the money may not be enough to satisfy the demands of Oklahoma's teachers, who rank among the worst paid in the United States and had been planning a strike for next week.Advertisement"There is still work to do to get this legislature to invest more in our classrooms," Alicia Priest, president of the Oklahoma Education Association (OEA), the state's largest teachers union, said in a Facebook post after the Senate vote.Advertisement"That work will continue Monday when educators descend on the Capitol", Priest said.The tax hikes on cigarettes, fuel, lodging and oil and gas production will fund a $6,100, or 16 percent, pay raise on average for Oklahoma teachers, Fallin said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The OEA, which has about 40,000 members, has said it is seeking a $10,000 pay increase over three years for teachers and a $5,000 raise for support personnel.According to National Education Association estimates for 2016, Oklahoma ranked 48th, followed by Mississippi at 49 and South Dakota at 50, in terms of average U.S. classroom teacher salary.Oklahoma secondary school teachers had an annual mean wage of $42,460 as of May 2016, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.For the past few years, Oklahoma has battled budget deficits stemming from the 2014 collapse in oil prices that hit its large energy industry and slammed state revenue.(Reporting by Andrew Hay and Jon Herskovitz; Editing by Michael Perry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:15 P.M. E.D.T.
PARKLAND, Fla. —  Multiple online sites have wrongly claimed Florida school shooting survivor and gun-control activist David Hogg was not on campus during the mass shooting.The erroneous information was based on a video to promote a CBS documentary on the student activists of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. The 8-minute video showed Hogg saying that on Feb. 14, he rode his bike 3 miles from his home to school, taking a camera with him. Stories shared on social media said that meant Hogg changed his story from an earlier account of being at school during the shooting, although some sites followed up with posts noting their misinterpretation.Hogg huddled with other students during the shooting, using his cellphone to record those around him. Ashley Kurth, a culinary arts teacher, said she taught Hogg when he was a freshman. When the shooting erupted, Kurth sheltered students who had been outside her classroom."I physically grabbed David by the arm and pulled him into my room," she said. "It is extremely frustrating the kind of information that is being put out there."In an interview with Vox published Feb. 20, Hogg specified the time of his bike ride: 6 p.m., after the shooting.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 1:51 P.M. E.D.T.
No new autopsy was performed on former White House deputy counsel Vince Foster at a U.S. Navy hospital in Virginia, despite the claim of an online story that experts there found evidence of a homicide.The story from usapoliticstoday claimed Foster's body was exhumed and examined at "the Naval Hospital in Norfolk, Virginia." It said forensic specialists, including the head of the hospital's forensics laboratory, concluded the cause of death should be changed from suicide to homicide. The article also alleged there was no autopsy when Foster died in 1993.Foster was a deputy counsel in former President Bill Clinton's White House. A Virginia deputy chief medical examiner who performed an autopsy the day after Foster's death determined he died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.There is no naval hospital in Norfolk. Naval Medical Center Portsmouth is the service's hospital in the region. In a statement, the Navy said, "Naval Medical Center Portsmouth has verified that an autopsy was not performed on Mr. Vince Foster at their facility. NMCP does not have a forensic pathologist on staff; therefore, NMCP staff are not able to perform a forensic examination."AdvertisementWhen an autopsy is done at the hospital, it is performed by a member of the Office of the Armed Forces Medical Examiner from Dover Air Force Base in Delaware."A review of NMCP's log book confirms that the AFME did not use NMCP's autopsy room for a forensic autopsy on Mr. Vince Foster," the Navy statement said.Advertisement___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 3:33 P.M. E.D.T.
DETROIT —  A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit filed against Facebook, Google and Twitter by families of patrons killed in the 2016 Orlando, Florida, nightclub massacre.In his ruling Friday, U.S. District Judge David Lawson found no legal merit for the case filed in December 2016 in Detroit by the families of Tevin Crosby, Juan Ramon Guerrero Jr., Javier Jorge-Reyes and others. They claimed gunman Omar Mateen was radicalized by propaganda found through social media."There are many conclusions that can be drawn from the facts alleged in the amended complaint about the ethics and moral responsibility of those maintaining social media sites, including the defendants," Lawson wrote. "But because the plaintiffs have not pleaded facts that plausibly establish legal claims for which relief can be granted, the court will grant the motion and dismiss the case."Lawson concluded the complaint offered no facts suggesting the videos and other messages "had anything at all directly to do with the shooting, other than that the principles espoused in them motivated Mateen to carry out the dreadful act." During the June 2016 rampage that killed 49 at Pulse nightclub, Mateen pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group in telephone conversations with a 911 operator and a police negotiator. He was killed in a shootout with SWAT team members after a three-hour standoff.AdvertisementA similar lawsuit against Twitter was dismissed in 2016 and affirmed two months ago by a federal appeals court. In that case, a federal judge in San Francisco agreed with Twitter that the company cannot be held liable because federal law protects service-providers that merely offer platforms for speech, without creating the speech itself.Lawson said the judges in that case were "confronting strikingly similar allegations" and found no "causal connection" between Twitter accounts and a terrorist attack. In his ruling, Lawson wrote that plaintiffs similarly failed to show that defendants "engaged in conduct subjecting them to liability for Mateen's terrorist act."Advertisement"Although certain organizations, most notably banks, occasionally have been found liable under these federal statutes for aiding international terrorists ... there is not a single case in which social media providers have been held responsible," he wrote. "And in several other cases, attempts to make out such a case have failed."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 6:11 A.M. E.D.T.
ULAANBAATAR —  Thousands of Mongolians protested in front of parliament in Ulaanbaatar on Saturday to demand more action to prevent child abuse, after the widely-reported rape of a male infant shocked the country.After the reported rape earlier this month in Dornogobi province in Mongolia's southeast, a group of concerned mothers created a Facebook group announcing the Saturday protest last week, and it quickly reached more than 400,000 members."We want to show child abusers that we are strong in order to protect our children," said Davaa Baatar, 41, the father of three children who was attending the protest.The protesters held placards with messages such as "Stop child abuse", "No child rape" and "Our children, our future".AdvertisementThe protest organizers are demanding stricter laws regarding child abuse, better government services for survivors and more public awareness.Advertisement"We will give our policy demands to the parliament, government and the president's office on Monday," said Odontuya Tsolmon, one of the protest organizers.The government has promised a response."As soon as we get the proposed demands from organizers, the cabinet will be open to discuss it," a government spokesman told Reuters, adding that the prime minister's advisors were at the demonstration.Some group members have advocated for the death penalty for sex offenders, though the protest organizers said they were opposed to capital punishment.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.President Khaltmaa Battulga formed a commission to reinstate capital punishment for such crimes last year after similar widely-publicised incidents of child sexual assaults provoked a public outcry.According to the state prosecutors office, there were 298 reported incidents of child rape in 2015 and 2016. Experts believe this is a small proportion of actual incidents of child sexual abuse due to a pervasive cultural stigma over the topic."The fear of being blamed and shamed means victims and their families keep quiet and don't report to the police," Ganbayasgakh Geleg, a founder of the Gender Equality Centre which fights human trafficking and sexual violence, told Reuters.Mongolia, a thinly populated and mineral-rich country of just three million people sandwiched between Russia and China, transitioned to a parliamentary democracy in 1990 having previously been a satellite of the Soviet Union.But there has been continued public frustration about the economy, corruption and air pollution, among other issues.Last year, a slump in foreign investment and declining commodity prices forced Mongolia to agree to a $5.5 billion bailout led by the International Monetary Fund to relieve fiscal strains and try to restore investor confidence.Advertisement(Reporting by Munkhchimeg Davaasharav and Peter Bittner; Writing by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Tom Hogue)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Wine School By                     
 ERIC ASIMOV
 
MARCH 29, 2018
In the last few years, Sicily and Mount Etna in particular have become well known for their red wines, particularly those made of the nerello mascalese grape, which we drank back in 2016.This time, we will look at the white wines of Mount Etna, known as Etna Bianco. These wines are made largely, sometimes entirely, of carricante. As with so many Italian grapes, it was little known and little appreciated until the last 10 or 15 years, when winemakers began to show just how good carricante could be.When grown in the right soils, under proper conditions, carricante makes one of Italy’s most compelling white wines, wholly different from any other. It’s a wine understood not so much for its fruitiness as for its savory elements, which is true of some of the world’s great whites.It’s hard to find carricante from any other place in the world. The grape is grown elsewhere in Sicily, where it often plays a subordinate role to catarratto. But I’ve never found it to be as interesting as it is when it comes from Etna.The three bottles I suggest are:Benanti Etna Bianco 2016 (Tradizione Imports, New York) $25.Graci Etna Bianco 2016 (Massanois, New York) $28.I Vigneri di Salvo Foti Etna Bianco Aurora 2016 (Louis/Dressner Selections, New York) $32.As is so often the case, these are small-production wines. If you cannot find them, look for other bottlings from these producers, as well as Etna Biancos from Tenuta delle Terre Nere, Biondi, Russo, Murgo, Planeta, I Custodi (also associated with the producer Salvo Foti), Barone di Villagrande and Pietra Dolce.If you don’t mind spending a little more, the Arcurìa from Graci is superb, while the Benanti Pietra Marina is one of the best white wines from Italy.These wines are natural partners for all sorts of seafood, particularly shellfish and leaner cuts of fish. I would probably not serve them with meatier fish like tuna or salmon.Serve these wines cool, but not too cold; otherwise the nuances may be lost. If the bottle is fully refrigerated, plan to take it out about 20 to 30 minutes before serving.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: A White Like No Other.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
City Kitchen By                     
 DAVID TANIS
 
MARCH 30, 2018
Sturdy, earthy lamb shanks are worthy vehicles for any number of seasonal flavors and preparations, whether a dark mix of mushrooms and red wine, or lighter, brighter citrus notes.Personally, I like them boiled. Well, not boiled exactly, but simmered in a pot of water on the stove.You may have been taught that lamb shanks must first be browned, then slowly braised — a fine way to cook them. But you can also get wonderful results skipping that first step. For instance, I have seen some recipes that call for a single lamb shank added to a long-cooked vegetable soup, just as you would with a ham hock or a few chicken legs to add meatiness.But for something bigger — a hearty main course — I first season the shanks with salt and pepper, cover them with water in a large pot, toss in a few aromatics, and let it all simmer gently for an hour and a half or so, until the meat is tender. In the process, the water becomes a delicious broth, which is then used to make a sauce.AdvertisementHowever, a whole, bone-in shank on a dinner plate can look gargantuan, even intimidating. So, once the shanks are tender, I like to pull the cooked meat off. The finished dish, thus tamed, can seem more civilized, less Stone Age. You can do this several hours before completing the dish, up to a day or two in advance.Rather than a deep, wintry braise, I wanted something lighter for the beginning of spring. Opting for orange and honey, along with a few sweet spices, like clove, coriander and a touch of saffron, seemed right. The zest of one orange, peeled in wide strips, and a half-cup of orange juice proved to be plenty for an intense back note. A splash of white wine also supplied acidity.A shower of freshly snipped herbs — dill, mint, parsley, basil — brightens the dish just before serving. A bouquet of butter-steamed spring vegetables (carrots and turnips for now, peas and asparagus tips soon) is a welcome accompaniment.AdvertisementRecipe: Spiced Lamb Shanks With Orange and HoneyFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of a picture caption accompanying this article misstated the preparation method for the carrots and turnips. They are steamed with butter. They are not browned in it.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Lambs Shanks, Sweetly Spiced for Spring.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:51 P.M. E.D.T.
Shares rose in Asia on Friday after technology and consumer-focused stocks led an overnight rally on Wall Street, marking a dramatic end to the market's most volatile quarter in more than two years. Many regional markets were closed for Good Friday.KEEPING SCORE: Japan's Nikkei 225 index added 1.1 percent to 21,391.47 and the Kospi in South Korea climbed 0.8 percent to 2,455.35. The Shanghai Composite index edged 0.1 percent higher to 3,163.95 and shares rose in Taiwan and Thailand.WALL STREET'S SURGE: Banks and industrial stocks also lifted the market and recent laggards such as Facebook and Boeing rose. Even so, the solid gains couldn't prevent the stock market's first quarterly loss since the third quarter of 2015. The S&P 500 rose 1.4 percent to 2,640.87. The Dow gained 1.1 percent to 24,103.11 and the Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks also picked up 1.1 percent, to 1,529.43. The Nasdaq added 1.6 percent to 7,063.44, closing the quarter with a gain of 2.3 percent. U.S. stock markets will be closed for the Good Friday holiday.TECH FACTOR: Thursday's run-up in technology stocks signaled that investors believe the sector was oversold in recent weeks, said Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. "Volatility has ramped up, inflationary pressures are more prevalent, interest rates are on the cusp of change, so that presents a higher level of uncertainty and higher investor angst," he said.AdvertisementJAPAN DATA: Data released Friday showed industrial production rebounded in February, gaining  4.1 in February from the month before, after a 6.8 drop in January. "The rebound in industrial production in February wasn't strong enough to prevent a slump in output last quarter and we reiterate our forecast that GDP shrank in Q1," Marcel Thieliant of Capital Economics said in a commentary.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.ENERGY: Trading stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 74 cents to $70.27 per barrel in London.CURRENCIES: The dollar fell to 106.22 yen from 106.43 yen on Thursday. The euro strengthened to $1.2317 from $1.2301.Advertisement___AP Business Writer Alex Veiga contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:18 P.M. E.D.T.
___Facebook says it's making progress in election preparednessNEW YORK (AP) — Facebook says it is making progress with efforts to weed out fake accounts and fake news on its service. The moves are aimed at preventing election interference ahead of the U.S. midterm elections.___Tech gains help US stocks end a rocky quarter with a bangTechnology companies powered U.S. stocks to solid gains Thursday, snapping the market's two-day losing streak. Banks, consumer-focused companies and industrial stocks also helped lift the market. Even so, the broad gains, which came on the last day of trading ahead of the Easter holiday weekend, weren't enough to make up for the stock market's first quarterly loss since 2015.___The next Kirkland? Online retailers create their own brandsNEW YORK (AP) — Online retailers vying to match the success of house brands like Costco's Kirkland Signature are starting their own private labels. They're doing so for the same reason: Store brands make a bigger profit and help keep customers. But attracting shoppers takes a different strategy: Sites design packaging that pops on screens. Search results put the private-label version first. Shoppers get cost savings on basics, items they can't find nearby, or a change from products they see everywhere.___White House claims win in Korea trade deal, faces skepticismWASHINGTON (AP) — The White House on Wednesday hailed a revamped trade agreement with South Korea as a vindication of President Donald Trump's hard-nosed approach to international trade. Many trade analysts are skeptical that the changes Trump's team negotiated to the six-year-old U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (called KORUS) would make a dent in America's massive trade deficit or do much to increase U.S. car sales in the near-impenetrable South Korean auto market.Advertisement___1 year to Brexit: So much to do, so little timeLONDON (AP) — On Thursday it is 365 days until Britain officially leaves the European Union on March 29, 2019, ending a 46-year marriage that has entwined the economies, legal systems and peoples of Britain and 27 other European countries. British Prime Minister Theresa May is marking the day with a whistle-stop tour of the United Kingdom's four corners —England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland — to promise a Brexit that unites the country.Advertisement___Consumer spending up in Feb; jobless claims at 45-year lowWASHINGTON (AP) — Americans increased their spending just 0.2 percent in February, while their incomes were boosted by increased wages and business owners' income. The Commerce Department says the modest spending increase followed an equal gain in January and a rise of 0.4 percent in December. Incomes increased a healthy 0.4 percent. The report came as news emerged that the number of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits dropped by 12,000 last week to 215,000 — the lowest level in 45 years.___Trump warns he may freeze SKorea trade deal for NKorea talksRICHFIELD, Ohio (AP) — President Donald Trump is threatening to "hold up" the trade agreement his administration finalized with South Korea this week to gain more leverage for talks with North Korea. Speaking about roads, bridges and other infrastructure in Ohio, Trump is highlighting the newly completed renegotiation of the trade agreement. But he adds that "it's a very strong card and I want to make sure everyone is treated fairly."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___President Trump goes after a favorite target, AmazonNEW YORK (AP) — President Donald Trump is going after Amazon again on Twitter. Amazon stock dropped 4.4 percent Wednesday after Axios reported that Trump has wondered if there was a way to "go after" the company with antitrust or competition law. Trump tweeted Thursday that Amazon pays "little or no" state sales taxes, which is not true.___Lawyer for victim's family says matter with Uber 'resolved'PHOENIX (AP) — The family of an Arizona woman killed when struck by an autonomous Uber vehicle apparently has reached a settlement with the company. Cristina Perez Hesano, an attorney for relatives of Elaine Herzberg, responded Thursday to inquiries by The Associated Press by saying only that the matter "has been resolved" without disclosing details. Uber declined to comment.___Good driver, poor credit: What makes your car costs so highHaving poor credit can be expensive, especially for car owners. In this analysis, NerdWallet looks at the increased costs in both car loans and insurance premiums to determine how much extra someone with poor credit could pay.___The S&P 500 index rose 35.87 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,640.87. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 254.69 points, or 1.1 percent, to 24,103.11.Benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 74 cents to $70.27 per barrel in London.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Ask Real Estate By                     
 RONDA KAYSEN
 
MARCH 31, 2018
Q: I live in a large Upper West Side co-op with a BuildingLink online message board. Management approves all posts, without providing guidelines on what might be approved or rejected. This is a private bulletin board, and I don’t expect complete freedom of speech. Still, it feels like anything more than an innocuous “for sale” announcement gets blocked. The moderators have rejected posts about an Upper West Side school rezoning debate; a post questioning what materials would be used for building improvements; and a post from a shareholder asking about a Paris apartment exchange. Should we have a stated policy? Is management being too controlling or is this normal oversight? Can shareholders request that questions not be subject to management approval?A: Of the roughly 4,300 residential buildings that use BuildingLink message boards, about 85 percent moderate the posts that residents make, with 90 percent of those posts getting approved by management, according to data provided by BuildingLink.Your board sounds more conservative than many others, however the problem may be about the content that shareholders try to post. People generally seem to use these message boards for pretty innocuous stuff. According to BuildingLink, half of all the posts that appeared on message boards were advertising items for sale. Other popular topics included requests for babysitters and housekeeping. The issues you mentioned are thornier, potentially making management nervous.Mark A. Hakim, the director of the co-op and condo department at the Manhattan law firm Chaves and Perlowitz, advises boards to restrict the use of online message boards to business uses, like posting the names of candidates for board elections, disseminating building notices, and letting residents make service requests. Turn the message board into an online water cooler and the board could open itself up to a possible defamation suit should conversations take a heated turn.Your building should circulate a written policy explaining the permitted uses of the message board so residents understand the rules. Residents could also request a more open forum. However, the board would not be obligated to change its policy. To do that, you’d need to elect board members sympathetic to your cause.Consider a different forum for more impassioned debates. Set up a private Facebook, Yahoo or Google group for shareholders, moderated by residents. With such a group, the residents, not the management, would decide how to restrict the content and conversations. But brace yourself: Moderating social media groups can be a headache.To submit your question or comments, email realestateqa@nytimes.comFor weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page RE2 of the New York edition with the headline: Can a Co-op Message Board Function as an Open Forum?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By FLORENCE FABRICANTMARCH 29, 2018
The cute name that Riad Nasr and Lee Hanson chose for the TriBeCa restaurant they’ll open early next week is not meant to suggest a smaller or less serious French restaurant. “Frenchette” is the title of a song David Johansen recorded in 1978, long before the chefs met in the kitchen of Daniel.The culinary partnership they began a quarter-century ago, in 1993, is a rare one: The two have worked together on equal footing, rather than as a chef and a loyal second-in-command, or a chef and restaurateur.Now, after years of cooking at Keith McNally’s restaurants, they finally have their own place. And they’re still on speaking terms.“Mostly,” Mr. Nasr said, his low-key humor on display. The secret? Plenty of room for give-and take.Frenchette leans heavily on their training in traditional French cooking and their experience at Balthazar, Minetta Tavern, Pastis and Schiller’s Liquor Bar. But they say their tastes, like those of the dining public, have changed. “Our food has become less adorned, with less sauce,” said Mr. Nasr, 53. (Mr. Hanson is 51.)AdvertisementThey intend to engage several local farms, not just for produce but also for meat and poultry, nose-to-tail. They’ll serve only dinner at first, though they soon plan to open from morning, with breakfast, through late evening.The restaurant has a welcoming bar, some booths in front and two dining areas beyond, done in a Parisian-looking blend of Modernism and Art Deco. Designed by Springs Collective of Brooklyn, it features richly polished, curving woodwork against cream walls, lit by vintage-style fluorescent fixtures and globe lights.AdvertisementDinner takes the traditional bistro menu in some challenging directions, with foie gras toast, pigs’ foot croquettes, watercress soup, Peconic snails with scrambled eggs, sweetbreads, rabbit stew and a gratin of cardoons. A rotisserie burnishes chicken for two, lobsters, côte de boeuf and whole turbot. An apple tart to share headlines the desserts.On the bottom of the menu, after the required warning about consuming raw or undercooked ingredients, is a tongue-in-cheek coda: “It could also be dangerous crossing the street with a baguette under your arm without looking at the incoming traffic.”Frenchette, 241 West Broadway (North Moore Street), no phone.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Kitchen Duo for Decades, Now With Their Own Place.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Wine School By                     
 ERIC ASIMOV
 
MARCH 29, 2018
In the last few years, Sicily and Mount Etna in particular have become well known for their red wines, particularly those made of the nerello mascalese grape, which we drank back in 2016.This time, we will look at the white wines of Mount Etna, known as Etna Bianco. These wines are made largely, sometimes entirely, of carricante. As with so many Italian grapes, it was little known and little appreciated until the last 10 or 15 years, when winemakers began to show just how good carricante could be.When grown in the right soils, under proper conditions, carricante makes one of Italy’s most compelling white wines, wholly different from any other. It’s a wine understood not so much for its fruitiness as for its savory elements, which is true of some of the world’s great whites.It’s hard to find carricante from any other place in the world. The grape is grown elsewhere in Sicily, where it often plays a subordinate role to catarratto. But I’ve never found it to be as interesting as it is when it comes from Etna.The three bottles I suggest are:Benanti Etna Bianco 2016 (Tradizione Imports, New York) $25.Graci Etna Bianco 2016 (Massanois, New York) $28.I Vigneri di Salvo Foti Etna Bianco Aurora 2016 (Louis/Dressner Selections, New York) $32.As is so often the case, these are small-production wines. If you cannot find them, look for other bottlings from these producers, as well as Etna Biancos from Tenuta delle Terre Nere, Biondi, Russo, Murgo, Planeta, I Custodi (also associated with the producer Salvo Foti), Barone di Villagrande and Pietra Dolce.If you don’t mind spending a little more, the Arcurìa from Graci is superb, while the Benanti Pietra Marina is one of the best white wines from Italy.These wines are natural partners for all sorts of seafood, particularly shellfish and leaner cuts of fish. I would probably not serve them with meatier fish like tuna or salmon.Serve these wines cool, but not too cold; otherwise the nuances may be lost. If the bottle is fully refrigerated, plan to take it out about 20 to 30 minutes before serving.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: A White Like No Other.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:51 P.M. E.D.T.
Shares rose in Asia on Friday after technology and consumer-focused stocks led an overnight rally on Wall Street, marking a dramatic end to the market's most volatile quarter in more than two years. Many regional markets were closed for Good Friday.KEEPING SCORE: Japan's Nikkei 225 index added 1.1 percent to 21,391.47 and the Kospi in South Korea climbed 0.8 percent to 2,455.35. The Shanghai Composite index edged 0.1 percent higher to 3,163.95 and shares rose in Taiwan and Thailand.WALL STREET'S SURGE: Banks and industrial stocks also lifted the market and recent laggards such as Facebook and Boeing rose. Even so, the solid gains couldn't prevent the stock market's first quarterly loss since the third quarter of 2015. The S&P 500 rose 1.4 percent to 2,640.87. The Dow gained 1.1 percent to 24,103.11 and the Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks also picked up 1.1 percent, to 1,529.43. The Nasdaq added 1.6 percent to 7,063.44, closing the quarter with a gain of 2.3 percent. U.S. stock markets will be closed for the Good Friday holiday.TECH FACTOR: Thursday's run-up in technology stocks signaled that investors believe the sector was oversold in recent weeks, said Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. "Volatility has ramped up, inflationary pressures are more prevalent, interest rates are on the cusp of change, so that presents a higher level of uncertainty and higher investor angst," he said.AdvertisementJAPAN DATA: Data released Friday showed industrial production rebounded in February, gaining  4.1 in February from the month before, after a 6.8 drop in January. "The rebound in industrial production in February wasn't strong enough to prevent a slump in output last quarter and we reiterate our forecast that GDP shrank in Q1," Marcel Thieliant of Capital Economics said in a commentary.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.ENERGY: Trading stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 74 cents to $70.27 per barrel in London.CURRENCIES: The dollar fell to 106.22 yen from 106.43 yen on Thursday. The euro strengthened to $1.2317 from $1.2301.Advertisement___AP Business Writer Alex Veiga contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By FLORENCE FABRICANTMARCH 29, 2018
The cute name that Riad Nasr and Lee Hanson chose for the TriBeCa restaurant they’ll open early next week is not meant to suggest a smaller or less serious French restaurant. “Frenchette” is the title of a song David Johansen recorded in 1978, long before the chefs met in the kitchen of Daniel.The culinary partnership they began a quarter-century ago, in 1993, is a rare one: The two have worked together on equal footing, rather than as a chef and a loyal second-in-command, or a chef and restaurateur.Now, after years of cooking at Keith McNally’s restaurants, they finally have their own place. And they’re still on speaking terms.“Mostly,” Mr. Nasr said, his low-key humor on display. The secret? Plenty of room for give-and take.Frenchette leans heavily on their training in traditional French cooking and their experience at Balthazar, Minetta Tavern, Pastis and Schiller’s Liquor Bar. But they say their tastes, like those of the dining public, have changed. “Our food has become less adorned, with less sauce,” said Mr. Nasr, 53. (Mr. Hanson is 51.)AdvertisementThey intend to engage several local farms, not just for produce but also for meat and poultry, nose-to-tail. They’ll serve only dinner at first, though they soon plan to open from morning, with breakfast, through late evening.The restaurant has a welcoming bar, some booths in front and two dining areas beyond, done in a Parisian-looking blend of Modernism and Art Deco. Designed by Springs Collective of Brooklyn, it features richly polished, curving woodwork against cream walls, lit by vintage-style fluorescent fixtures and globe lights.AdvertisementDinner takes the traditional bistro menu in some challenging directions, with foie gras toast, pigs’ foot croquettes, watercress soup, Peconic snails with scrambled eggs, sweetbreads, rabbit stew and a gratin of cardoons. A rotisserie burnishes chicken for two, lobsters, côte de boeuf and whole turbot. An apple tart to share headlines the desserts.On the bottom of the menu, after the required warning about consuming raw or undercooked ingredients, is a tongue-in-cheek coda: “It could also be dangerous crossing the street with a baguette under your arm without looking at the incoming traffic.”Frenchette, 241 West Broadway (North Moore Street), no phone.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Kitchen Duo for Decades, Now With Their Own Place.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:37 A.M. E.D.T.
NAIROBI, Kenya —  A Kenyan opposition politician alleged he was drugged and deported to Dubai early Thursday after his attempt to enter Kenya led to him being detained in an airport toilet for more than a day.Miguna Miguna, targeted in a Kenyan government crackdown amid lingering election tensions, was deported even after a court ordered authorities to release him, lawyer Cliff Ombeta said. Police at the airport roughed up lawyers and forced them to leave when they tried to serve the court order, said another lawyer, James Orengo.Miguna said in a Facebook post that authorities broke into the airport toilet where he had been held and forcibly injected him with a substance and he passed out. He said he regained consciousness when the Emirates flight arrived in Dubai."I will and must return to Kenya as a Kenyan citizen by birth as various courts have ordered," he wrote.AdvertisementThere was no immediate response from Kenyan authorities, though Kenya's immigration department retweeted a post calling on the public to ignore a rumor that Miguna had been sedated or drugged.AdvertisementThe deportation ended the Nairobi airport drama in which Miguna posted from what he called "Toilet at Terminal 2," saying he had been detained in the "filthy" facilities at the country's main airport with food or access to lawyers.Hours before he was deported, a High Court judge declared Kenya's interior minister, national police chief and permanent secretary for immigration in contempt of court for disregarding an order to immediately release Miguna, said another lawyer, Nelson Havi.Justice George Odunga ordered the officials to show up in court Thursday morning or be jailed. When they failed to appear, the judge fined $2,000 each for contempt of court. He did not order them jailed because even "if they can't obey the orders of this court with such impunity" he doubted that junior officials would act on warrants to arrest them.Miguna had been deported to Canada last month in a crackdown on politicians who attended the mock inauguration of opposition leader Raila Odinga to protest President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. A court later ordered that Miguna's Kenyan passport be restored and that he be allowed to return.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.However, when Miguna arrived on Monday at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, plainclothes officers tried to hustle him onto an outbound plane, witnesses said. That failed when he protested.Miguna later posted statements on social media saying he had been "detained inside a tiny and filthy toilet" in one of the terminals. "I have not eaten. I have not taken a shower. I have not been given access to my lawyers, family members and physicians."Miguna could not appear in court as ordered because his entry into the country was still being processed, a lawyer representing Kenya's attorney general, Japheth Mutinda, told the court on Wednesday.The airport confrontation came two weeks after a surprise meeting between opposition leader Odinga and Kenya's president as they announced a new initiative to heal this East African nation after months of sometimes deadly election turmoil.AdvertisementOdinga had argued that Kenyatta lacked legitimacy because his initial Aug. 8 re-election victory was nullified by the Supreme Court over "irregularities and illegalities." The repeat election had a low turnout as Odinga boycotted it, citing a lack of electoral reforms.Miguna was at Odinga's side when he took an oath as the "people's president" at the mock inauguration. The government responded by arresting opposition politicians.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 3:57 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Anita Shreve, the best-selling novelist who explored how women responded to crises past and present in her native New England in favorites such as "The Pilot's Wife," ''Testimony" and "The Weight of Water," has died. She was 71.Publisher Alfred A. Knopf said Shreve, who had been battling cancer, died Thursday at her home in New Hampshire. Shreve had announced her illness last year on Facebook, writing that a "medical emergency" would prevent her from touring for what became her last novel, "The Stars Are Fire."Knopf editor Jordan Pavlin said in a statement Friday that Shreve's "writing has touched the lives of millions of readers around the world, and she did some of her most elegant, rich, and unforgettable work in the last years of her life." Fellow writers, from Jodi Picoult to Terry McMillan, also offered tributes. Sue Monk Kidd tweeted that Shreve was "an amazing writer who offered unparalleled generosity to other writers, including me."Shreve's novels sold millions of copies, especially after Oprah Winfrey chose "The Pilot's Wife" for her book club in 1999. Shreve was also a favorite source for Hollywood. "The Pilot's Wife," ''Resistance" and "The Weight of Water" all were adapted into movies. Her literary honors included an O.Henry Prize for the story "Past the Island, Drifting" and being a finalist for England's Orange Prize for "The Weight of Water." Shreve wrote 19 novels in all, and preferred to work in longhand.Advertisement"The creative impulse, the thing that gets deep inside me, goes from the brain to the fingertips," she told The Writer magazine. "When you're writing by hand, even when you're not consciously thinking about it, you're constructing sentences in the best way possible. And I still get the thrill of the clean pad of notepaper and the pencil all sharpened."AdvertisementBorn in Dedham, Massachusetts, and a graduate of Tufts University, she began writing fiction while a high school teacher in Reading, Massachusetts, and worked for a time as a journalist in Kenya. As teenager, she had loved Eugene O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and aspired to "the romantic angst of a tragic writer." Around the same time, she spent a snowy afternoon reading Edith Wharton's spare and bitter "Ethan Frome" and would cite it as a lasting influence.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The universe within Wharton's enduring tale is snowbound and isolated, just as frozen and stark as the world outside my window that day," Shreve wrote in Winfrey's magazine "O'' in 2004. "Never before had I experienced reality and fiction merging so powerfully. I have said often that this book was the beginning of my life as a novelist."She wrote of women haunted or traumatized. In "The Pilot's Wife," a woman contends not just with grief after her husband dies in a plane crash but also suspicions about the tragedy itself. "The Weight of Water" is partially based on the deaths of two women off the New Hampshire coast, the so-called "Smuttynose Murders" of 1873.In "The Stars Are Fire," a devastating blaze upends the world of a Maine housewife. The book was inspired by the so-called "Great Fires" that swept through Maine in 1947."It doesn't interest me to write about women who aren't real," Shreve told The Writer in 2014. "My mother once said, 'The minute I read that a character is beautiful, I flip the book over my shoulder.' It lacks authenticity."Shreve was married twice, mostly recently to John Osborn. She had two daughters.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:12 P.M. E.D.T.
SALT LAKE CITY —  A Utah man tied up two teenagers, stabbed them to death and dumped their bodies in an abandoned mine shaft before they were reported missing nearly three months ago, police said Thursday.Jerrod W. Baum, 41,  was arrested on suspicion of aggravated murder, kidnapping, abuse of a dead body and other charges Wednesday, hours after police recovered the bodies on a shallow ledge inside a deep mine shaft near Eureka, about 75 miles (120 kilometers) south of Salt Lake City.Baum caught the two teenagers after they visited his girlfriend at their home, then bound them in their Jeep and drove to an abandoned mine where he killed them, the woman told investigators. He said he'd already warned her about having male friends at the house and "it was too bad because he has never killed an innocent before," she told authorities, according to police documents.He told her he'd made Riley Powell, 18, suffer but kept the death of Brelynne "Breezy" Otteson, 17, quick and painless because he felt bad, Utah County Sheriff's officials wrote.AdvertisementDefense attorney Michael Petro did not immediately return a message seeking comment.Family members of the two teenagers said they didn't know Baum, and were at a tragic loss to explain what happened.Advertisement"What went wrong? Why did he have so much hate? There's no reason," father Bill Powell told reporters."You don't kill kids out of jealousy," Otteson's aunt Amanda Hunt said, she added that finding their bodies after nearly three months of searching puts at least some questions to rest.Bodies believed to be Powell and Otteson were recovered after police found a Facebook message thread showing the teens planned on going to the couple's home on Dec. 29, shortly before they were reported missing, according to police documents.Baum's girlfriend Morgan Henderson, 34, told police in January that the teens had come over, smoked marijuana with her and left, and that she hadn't seen them since. But after police found an axe, a rifle and knives in her car in an unrelated traffic stop on Sunday, she talked to investigators again.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The couple had come to the house, but after they left Baum came to find Henderson and showed her the teens were tied up in Powell's Jeep. He put her in the car to "go for a ride and have a talk," and took them all out to an abandoned mine site. He killed the teenagers, then took her back home and threatened her as well, police said.Henderson dumped the Jeep at a nearby reservoir, she told police. A lawyer listed for her in a previous case did not immediately return a call seeking comment.Additional arrests in the case are possible, Utah County Sheriff's Sgt. Spencer Cannon said, though he did not elaborate.Court records show Baum has a rap sheet dating back to the early 1990s including theft, assault and weapons charges.AdvertisementLast year, Baum and Henderson were found in a car near Yuba State Park with a tactical knife tucked in the small of his back and another knife on a necklace under his shirt, along with a container of meth, a pistol and prescription drugs, according to court records. He was convicted of weapon and drug charges in that case.Baum was also accused of helping his girlfriend load and stash a handgun in their home earlier this year, despite being barred from possessing a gun as a convicted felon. He has not yet entered a plea in that case.___Associated Press writer Michelle L. Price contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By STEPHEN CASTLEMARCH 29, 2018
LONDON — The mural emblazoned on a wall in east London has long been painted over, but the image remains jarring: a group of caricatured, stereotypically Jewish bankers playing Monopoly on the backs of the poor.So when it appeared in the Twitter feed of a British lawmaker — along with a question about why the leader of her opposition Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn, once opposed its removal — Luciana Berger wanted answers.
            I asked the Leader’s Office for an explanation about this Facebook post first thing this morning. I’m still waiting for a response. pic.twitter.com/DL8ynBtES4 For hours, she heard nothing from Mr. Corbyn and, when a response finally came, it was hardly unequivocal. Conceding, through an aide, that the mural he endorsed via Facebook in 2012 was anti-Semitic, Mr. Corbyn expressed “sincere regret” for not having looked more closely. But he also suggested that he had been defending free speech.Ms. Berger was not impressed.
            The response from the Spokesperson is wholly inadequate. It fails to understand on any level the hurt and anguish felt about Antisemitism. I will be raising this further.        By the time a clearer apology emerged, along with a letter to Jewish organizations, it was too late for many critics. On Monday, demonstrators gathered for an extraordinary protest outside Parliament, one intended to make the striking point that Labour — once considered a natural political home of Britain’s Jewish community — had become a place where some felt under siege.AdvertisementWhile hostility to Jews is often associated with right-wing politics, under the Labour Party’s most left-wing leader in recent history, anti-Semitism is now “more conspicuous, more commonplace and more corrosive” than at any time she can remember, according to Ms. Berger, who is the parliamentary chairwoman of the Jewish Labour Movement.AdvertisementOther Labour lawmakers seemed worried, too.
            Silence is complicity, Jeremy. It’s time for everyone in Labour to act, writes @wesstreeting https://t.co/5EdC82ZnBP pic.twitter.com/Lft0VZ8t4A 
            Solidarity. Appalling it has come to this. Antisemitism is vile, corrosive & shames us all. Was asked about this on @Channel4News yesterday & said Jeremy shd now invite @BoardofDeputies in from demonstration & listen to what must be done to tackle all antisemitism & rebuild trust https://t.co/9OfX9fh5sL 
            .@sundersays is right. We must root out racism wherever we find it,in every party. It was good to see @sajidjavid and some other Conservatives at the anti-semitism demo in Parliament Sq yesterday. Will they speak out, as we have, when they see racism in their party too? I hope so https://t.co/ywFtOeiEri The crisis deepened with news on Thursday of the resignation of Christine Shawcroft, the chair of Labour’s internal disputes panel, after the leak of an email suggesting that she had lent support to a council candidate suspended after accusations of anti-Semitism.Coming after criticism of Mr. Corbyn’s reluctance to blame Moscow for the poisoning attack on a Russian former spy and his daughter in Salisbury, England, the issue has recharged a bitter argument about his leadership. That, in turn, has led Mr. Corbyn’s supporters to complain of a politically motivated plot to destabilize his position because of his left-wing politics.But there is little doubt that the atmosphere in the Labour Party has changed. A veteran of left-wing struggles, Mr. Corbyn learned his politics fighting apartheid in South Africa and campaigning against what he saw as Western militarism and neo-imperialism. While many of those battles have been won, the plight of the Palestinians remains a sore point on the left, one deepened by the hard-line policies of the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu.At the same time, the Labour Party’s membership has grown bigger and more diverse, while Momentum, a campaign that promotes Mr. Corbyn’s radical brand of politics, has emerged as a powerful force, tilting the political balance further to the left.This is not the first time that Mr. Corbyn’s party has faced allegations of anti-Semitism. In 2016, one lawmaker, Naz Shah, was temporarily suspended for sharing a graphic showing an outline of Israel superimposed on a map of the United States, suggesting the relocation of Israel to North America.When the former mayor of London, Ken Livingstone — a longstanding ally of Mr. Corbyn — tried to defend Ms. Shah, he instead poured gasoline on the flames by arguing that, in 1932, Adolf Hitler “was supporting Zionism before he went mad and ended up killing six million Jews.”After that crisis, Mr. Corbyn commissioned an inquiry, led by Shami Chakrabarti, a leading human rights campaigner, which concluded that Labour was not overrun by anti-Semitism but acknowledged that there was an “occasionally toxic atmosphere” in the party.AdvertisementThe mere fact that the party was having such a discussion would have been all but unthinkable in days past.“Labour has a very strong tradition of support for Zionism and Israel,” said June Edmunds, a lecturer in sociology at the University of Sussex. That, she added, was “based on the formative impact of the genocide of the Jews on the postwar generation as well as the view that Jewish nationalism represented a form of anti-colonialism.”Opinion began shifting after the Arab-Israeli War in 1967, though it was the Sabra and Shatila massacre in 1982 that generated sharper criticism of Israel alongside growing sympathy for Palestinian refugees in Lebanon, Ms. Edmunds said. Events in Gaza and Israeli settlement policy have only added to those feelings.Criticism of Israeli policy is, of course, not the same thing as anti-Semitism, though, as Ms. Edmunds put it, “there can be overlaps — within Labour and other parties — between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism.”And anti-Semitism in wider society has deep roots, as the archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, acknowledged in evidence to a parliamentary select committee inquiry into the issue.“We had a shameful record until very recently, in historical terms,” he said, “England was the first European country to expel Jewish people, in 1290, with their exile lasting for 350 years.”Nowadays, the insidious anti-Semitism of the British establishment has given way to something more overt. Reported anti-Semitic incidents in Britain have increased, the select committee report noted, accelerated by social media. Ms. Berger has released a snapshot of some of the abuse she has received, including Twitter posts likening her to a pig and calling for her head to be put on a spike. One read, “waking up and remembering you’re a Jew must be a horrid start to one’s day.”Nevertheless, the majority of anti-Semitic abuse and crime “has historically been, and continues to be, committed by individuals associated with (or motivated by) far right-wing parties and political activity,” the report said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Labour Party’s problems with anti-Semitism have become intertwined with the personality and leadership of Mr. Corbyn, who spent three decades on the fringes of politics, opposing NATO and Western foreign policy, while championing anti-imperialist and anti-Zionist causes.AdvertisementIn 2015, when he was elected leader, concerns were raised about Mr. Corbyn’s earlier reference to Hamas and Hezbollah as his “friends.”“As a maverick backbencher, it wasn’t a problem to welcome Hamas or Hezbollah,” said Mark Wickham-Jones, a professor of political science at the University of Bristol. “But as leader, he’s supposed to have a more multilayered series of relationships, and the past comes back to haunt him.”Donald Macintyre, a political commentator and author of “Gaza, Preparing for Dawn,” said that, by failing to deal with the anti-Semitism issue, Mr. Corbyn “weakens the credibility of wholly legitimate criticisms of Israeli occupation and settlements.”Social media posts from the days when fewer people took notice of what Mr. Corbyn thought have resurfaced showing him to have been a member of several Facebook groups in which members had shared anti-Semitic comments and images.Mr. Corbyn’s defense in 2012 of the mural by the Los Angeles-based street artist Mear One, whose real name is Kalen Ockerman, was first reported in 2015 by the London-based publication Jewish Chronicle, which failed to get any response from the Labour leader’s office, according to the paper’s editor, Stephen Pollard. Though the story went nowhere, it was remembered by the Jewish community, Mr. Pollard said, adding that “Corbyn’s first statement about freedom of speech genuinely shocked people.”Other Corbyn controversies have often involved Israeli policy, on which there are different opinions in the Jewish community. But, Mr. Pollard said, “This mural was classic old fashioned anti-Semitism, nothing to do with Israel at all.”Mr. Pollard said he thought that Mr. Corbyn was indifferent to anti-Semitism, and “doesn’t see it as ‘proper racism’ because most Jews are ‘part of the ruling elite.’ ”But Sue Lukes, a member of the pro-Corbyn Jewish Voice for Labour group, said that she knows the Labour leader from their activities in North London politics and that she could vouch for him. “Do I think he’s an anti-Semite? Absolutely not,” she said, describing his Facebook comment on the mural as a “genuine mistake he was happy to admit to.”AdvertisementMs. Lukes and other Corbyn supporters say they detect a plot by internal enemies to undermine a charismatic, left-wing leader.“The timing is not coincidental; there has been a lot of talk about what the people who oppose Jeremy Corbyn are likely to do next,” she said, adding that they “may be thinking that it is quite a neat way to stir things up a bit.”Ms. Luke, whose grandparents died at Auschwitz, said she believed that Labour needed to deal better with complaints of anti-Semitism, adding that the digital era had brought new people into political activism, some of whom were susceptible to internet conspiracy theories.But she said she still saw the protest against Mr. Corbyn as politically motivated. “Faith and community leaders should not be interfering to unseat the leader of a political party, or skew the outcome of the elections,” she said, suggesting an intention to damage Labour’s standing in coming local elections and to increase pressure on Mr. Corbyn’s leadership.Stewart Wood, a member of the House of Lords and former aide to the previous Labour leader, Ed Miliband, agreed that Mr. Corbyn was not anti-Semitic — indeed, for such a committed anti-racist it is “a horrific accusation,” he said — but he acknowledged that “a few elements inside the left of our party have drifted into it in the past few years.”Under the Labour former prime minister, Tony Blair, Mr. Corbyn and his allies felt themselves outcasts in the party, and “the culture of the tribe of outsiders is to support each other, instinctively,” Mr. Wood said.“But,” Mr. Wood added, “now that he is leader, the admirable instinct to support people who were with him in the tough times as an outsider can sometimes end up hurting his leadership by giving the impression that he is prepared to tolerate the intolerable.”Follow Stephen Castle on Twitter: @_StephenCastle. A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: In Britain, the Labour Party Wrestles With Claims of Anti-Semitism.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:30 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK — Wall Street surged on Thursday, bringing an upbeat end to a tumultuous, holiday-shortened week as technology stocks rebounded, but the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average posted their biggest quarterly declines in more than two years.The year started strong, but early gains evaporated as the markets entered a correction over interest rate jitters, fears of an escalating import tariff dispute between the United States and China, and a selloff in the tech sector.(GRAPHIC: S&P Quarterly performance during bull market - https://reut.rs/2pUJYLR)Tech stocks reversed course on Thursday and the S&P 500 information technology index closed up 2.2 percent after reaching a session high of 3.2 percent, helping push the S&P 500 up 1.4 percent, with the Dow and Nasdaq also rallying."All the fears now look overblown. Interest rates, the concern about tariffs, we're going to get into a trade war," said Doug Cote, chief market strategist at Voya Investment Management in New York. "But now clearer heads are prevailing. If anything this is a buying opportunity."AdvertisementTechnology gains were led by Facebook, Intel, Alphabet and Microsoft shares."Tech will always lead the charge in a bull market. And we're in a bull market," said Cote.AdvertisementThe Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 254.69 points, or 1.07 percent, to close at 24,103.11, the S&P 500 gained 35.87 points, or 1.38 percent, to 2,640.87 and the Nasdaq Composite added 114.22 points, or 1.64 percent, to 7,063.45.
            Position of the S. & P. 500 index at 1-minute intervals on Thursday.        2,6602,6402,620Previous close2,605.002,60010 a.m.Noon2 p.m.4 p.m.MARCH 29, 2018
Investors were unfazed by economic reports showing a slight increase in consumer spending and initial jobless claims dropping to a more than 45-year low.
            Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.        400,0004-week moving average300 2001000ONDJFMMARCH 29, 2018
In other data, core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose by 1.6 percent year-on-year. The index, the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation, has been below the U.S. central bank's 2 percent target since mid-2012.Amazon.com closed up 1.1 percent, recovering from a 4.6 percent drop after U.S. President Donald Trump criticized the online retailer via Twitter early Thursday, claiming without evidence that the company pays "little to no taxes to state & local governments."Stocks shot up earlier in the week as comments from officials in the United States and China suggested the world's two largest economies would renegotiate tariffs and trade imbalances, averting a trade war.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But worries that retaliatory tariffs would harm the global economy led investors to cut equity exposure to a four-month low in March and reduce holdings of U.S. stocks to the lowest in nearly two years, according to a Reuters poll.Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 3.66-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 2.23-to-1 ratio favored advancers.Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.49 billion shares, compared to the 7.29 billion average over the last 20 trading days.(Reporting by Stephen Culp in New York; Additional reporting by Charles Mikolajczak; Editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:42 P.M. E.D.T.
A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue headlines of the week. None of these stories is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out; here are the real facts:___NOT REAL: Autopsy Results From Vince Foster's Exhumed Body-Cause Of Death To Be Changed!THE FACTS: U.S. Navy doctors haven't found evidence former White House deputy counsel Vince Foster was the victim of a homicide. A story on the usapoliticstoday site claimed the body of Foster, who worked in the Clinton White House until he killed himself in 1993, had recently undergone an autopsy at "the Naval Hospital in Norfolk, Virginia." There is no naval hospital in Norfolk. The Navy said in a statement that its closest hospital, Naval Medical Center Portsmouth, "has verified that an autopsy was not performed on Mr. Vince Foster at their facility."___NOT REAL: Muslim nurses refuse to wash hands before operations, the reason why is insaneTHE FACTS: Muslim nurses in Britain must scrub up before caring for patients, although those with concerns about modesty under Islamic law can then don disposable over-sleeves to keep their arms covered. A story on the site vtamedia falsely claimed the nurses could use religious reasons to skip hand-washing. British health care guidelines were updated in consultation with "Islamic scholars and chaplains" in 2010 to accommodate religious dress.___NOT REAL: 22 Clinton Foundation Employees Arrested On First Day Of New InvestigationTHE FACTS: An investigation into whether the Clinton Foundation accepted donations in exchange for political favors while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state did not result in 22 arrests on its first day. The satire site ladiesofliberty published the article claiming people were charged with drug trafficking, money laundering and perjury. Other conservative websites have since run stories with identical wording. While the article cites U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, he has made no such announcement. A spokesman for the Clinton Foundation said the arrests didn't happen.___NOT REAL: Busted: Soros Paid March For Our Lives Protestors $300 EachTHE FACTS: An online classified advertisement seeking merchandise sellers for a March for Our Lives in Los Angeles does not mean that liberal billionaire philanthropist George Soros and his foundations paid protesters $300 each to rally at the main event in Washington. The Tea Party Commander Center story included an image of the ad for the March 24 event in Los Angeles. Laura Silber, spokeswoman for Soros' Open Society Foundations, said neither Soros nor the foundations paid protesters. Students organized the rallies in support of increased gun control after a Feb. 14 shooting that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.Advertisement___NOT REAL: Cocaine Found in Coors Light NationwideTHE FACTS: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration hasn't found "thousands" of instances of Coors beer contaminated with cocaine. An article that originated in 2014 on the site huzlers continues to be shared on social media, claiming people reported feeling "weird, high and even sick" after drinking the beer. FDA spokesman Peter Cassell says the story isn't true. He said there is no one at the FDA with the name of the person the information is attributed to, and the primary federal regulatory authority for alcohol is not the FDA but the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, which is part of the Treasury Department.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.Advertisement___Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:12 P.M. E.D.T.
SALT LAKE CITY —  A Utah man tied up two teenagers, stabbed them to death and dumped their bodies in an abandoned mine shaft before they were reported missing nearly three months ago, police said Thursday.Jerrod W. Baum, 41,  was arrested on suspicion of aggravated murder, kidnapping, abuse of a dead body and other charges Wednesday, hours after police recovered the bodies on a shallow ledge inside a deep mine shaft near Eureka, about 75 miles (120 kilometers) south of Salt Lake City.Baum caught the two teenagers after they visited his girlfriend at their home, then bound them in their Jeep and drove to an abandoned mine where he killed them, the woman told investigators. He said he'd already warned her about having male friends at the house and "it was too bad because he has never killed an innocent before," she told authorities, according to police documents.He told her he'd made Riley Powell, 18, suffer but kept the death of Brelynne "Breezy" Otteson, 17, quick and painless because he felt bad, Utah County Sheriff's officials wrote.AdvertisementDefense attorney Michael Petro did not immediately return a message seeking comment.Family members of the two teenagers said they didn't know Baum, and were at a tragic loss to explain what happened.Advertisement"What went wrong? Why did he have so much hate? There's no reason," father Bill Powell told reporters."You don't kill kids out of jealousy," Otteson's aunt Amanda Hunt said, she added that finding their bodies after nearly three months of searching puts at least some questions to rest.Bodies believed to be Powell and Otteson were recovered after police found a Facebook message thread showing the teens planned on going to the couple's home on Dec. 29, shortly before they were reported missing, according to police documents.Baum's girlfriend Morgan Henderson, 34, told police in January that the teens had come over, smoked marijuana with her and left, and that she hadn't seen them since. But after police found an axe, a rifle and knives in her car in an unrelated traffic stop on Sunday, she talked to investigators again.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The couple had come to the house, but after they left Baum came to find Henderson and showed her the teens were tied up in Powell's Jeep. He put her in the car to "go for a ride and have a talk," and took them all out to an abandoned mine site. He killed the teenagers, then took her back home and threatened her as well, police said.Henderson dumped the Jeep at a nearby reservoir, she told police. A lawyer listed for her in a previous case did not immediately return a call seeking comment.Additional arrests in the case are possible, Utah County Sheriff's Sgt. Spencer Cannon said, though he did not elaborate.Court records show Baum has a rap sheet dating back to the early 1990s including theft, assault and weapons charges.AdvertisementLast year, Baum and Henderson were found in a car near Yuba State Park with a tactical knife tucked in the small of his back and another knife on a necklace under his shirt, along with a container of meth, a pistol and prescription drugs, according to court records. He was convicted of weapon and drug charges in that case.Baum was also accused of helping his girlfriend load and stash a handgun in their home earlier this year, despite being barred from possessing a gun as a convicted felon. He has not yet entered a plea in that case.___Associated Press writer Michelle L. Price contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:06 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO —  Spotify Technology SA's unusual stock market debut on Tuesday levels the playing field for individual investors who are normally at a disadvantage in traditional listings, but could also make them more vulnerable to swings in the music streaming service's share price.The Swedish company is skipping a conventional initial public offering and listing shares directly on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) with almost none of the safeguards provided by investment banks that would normally manage the process.Spotify is foregoing the security of having bankers with a financial interest in its success, which will save it millions of dollars in fees to underwriters. The direct listing gives Spotify insiders a chance to sell their shares, but the company will not be selling any new stock to raise money.In a normal IPO, underwriters promote a company to institutional investors weeks in advance, using roadshows and meetings to gauge appetite for the stock. They use that information to "build a book" and settle on an IPO price, typically the evening before the shares start trading on the exchange.AdvertisementWHO GETS FIRST DIBS?Spotify's plan introduces an extra degree of uncertainty over how initial trading in its stock will unfold. And a slump in shares of Facebook Inc and other technology-related stocks this week means investors may be less willing to bet on the listing.AdvertisementThe direct offering should give retail investors opportunities to buy in at the same price as hedge funds and other big investors who normally get first dibs on IPOs thanks to their relationships with underwriters.Spotify has warned in filings it expects the popularity of its service to attract outsized interest from individual investors, which could possibly fuel volatility and set an unsustainable trading price."There will be people right from the beginning who say, 'I want to own this at any price,'" said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment strategist at Inverness Counsel in New York. "I think you'll see a see-saw action. We'll be looking for the dips."In a normal IPO, underwriters act as so-called stabilization agents that can step in and buy shares if trading is weak.AT WHAT PRICE?Spotify shares traded between $95 and $127.50 in private transactions in February, according to its filing, giving the company a value of around $20 billion.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.RBC analyst Mark Mahoney kicked off analyst coverage of Spotify on Friday with an "outperform" rating and a share price target of $220.Robinhood, a smartphone stock trading app popular with young people, on Thursday started letting customers place orders to buy Spotify shares, but only through so-called limit orders where the buyer specifies a maximum price.Robinhood's clients have searched for Spotify about 14,000 times a day in recent weeks, according to a Robinhood spokesman.AdvertisementFidelity's online brokerage plans to let clients enter orders for Spotify shares starting at 7:00 a.m. EDT on Tuesday, 2-1/2 hours before the stock market opens, a spokesman said.Jake Dollarhide, chief executive officer of Longbow Asset Management in Tulsa, Oklahoma, plans to buy shares of Spotify on Tuesday but is wary of volatility."We'll buy 25 percent of what we want, and then set limit orders for the rest over the next few weeks," he said.WHO WILL MANAGE THE OFFERING?Spotify has hired Citadel Securities as a market maker to set the opening price on the NYSE on Tuesday, with help from Morgan Stanley, but their roles will be limited. Early on Tuesday, they will analyze investors' buy and sell orders and then set an opening price for the stock.Citadel will not have the benefit of a price set by underwriters the day before, as would happen in a normal initial stock offer.(Reporting by Noel Randewich in San Francisco and Chuck Mikolajczak in New York; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Best of Late Night By                     
 GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
 
MARCH 29, 2018
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Dana Carvey impersonated John R. Bolton, President Trump’s incoming national security adviser, in an interview with Stephen Colbert on “The Late Show” Wednesday night. It was a bit reminiscent of Carvey’s famous impression of the first  President George  Bush — but a few notches more ludicrous.Colbert asked “Bolton,” who is known for his far-right views and is said to act abusively toward co-workers, for reassurance that he was not gunning for pre-emptive war with North Korea or Iran. The interview began with Carvey’s character pleading innocence, but it didn’t take long to fly off the rails.By the end, his face was covered in an overgrown mustache, and he was attempting to breast-feed a golden retriever puppy.Here’s how it started.STEPHEN COLBERT: Ambassador Bolton, thank you for joining us.DANA CARVEY: Oh, my pleasure, Stephen. It’s very important to me that nobody thinks President Trump is handing the keys to the war machine to some sort of hair-trigger lunatic.COLBERT: Well, that is very reassuring, sir.CARVEY: Because if I heard someone say that, I’d blow them up quick.Midway through the interview, Colbert noticed something suspicious going on with his interviewee’s facial hair.COLBERT: I feel like I do have to ask: Is your mustache getting larger?CARVEY: Oh yeah, don’t worry about that — General Snowball here just gets a bit engorged when he smells a war coming on. You want action, don’t you boy? [pets mustache] Easy, fellow. Here, have some shampoo. [pulls out bottle]AdvertisementSamantha Bee flew to Puerto Rico to tape Wednesday’s hourlong special episode of “Full Frontal.” She traveled around the island, taking a look at the efforts to restore power in cities and towns and the mountainous villages that were hardest hit by Hurricane Maria.AdvertisementThe segment concludes with a solar panel installed on the roof of a rural barber’s shop, restoring power to it and bringing him one step closer to business as usual.“This morning, Facebook announced major changes to its privacy settings. Yeah, apparently they’re going to start having some.” — CONAN O’BRIEN“President Trump has fired his secretary of veterans affairs, and he’s replaced him with the official White House doctor — the man who gave Trump his presidential physical. Which sort of makes sense. I guess Trump was probably like, ‘Anyone who’s seen me naked deserves a reward.’” — TREVOR NOAHWho’s the most “cool, calm and collected” — Zach Woods, Shawn Mendes or Hilary Swank?Tiffany Haddish said in a recent GQ interview that she was at a party when someone bit Beyoncé in the face. Trevor Noah really wants to know who it was.Sean Penn, who recently released his debut novel (to less-than-glowing reviews) and gave a freewheeling interview on “The Late Show” this week, will sit down with Conan O’Brien on Thursday.The National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis has a lot to teach us about our history — and about today — writes our co-chief art critic, Holland Cotter.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:30 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK — Wall Street surged on Thursday, bringing an upbeat end to a tumultuous, holiday-shortened week as technology stocks rebounded, but the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average posted their biggest quarterly declines in more than two years.The year started strong, but early gains evaporated as the markets entered a correction over interest rate jitters, fears of an escalating import tariff dispute between the United States and China, and a selloff in the tech sector.(GRAPHIC: S&P Quarterly performance during bull market - https://reut.rs/2pUJYLR)Tech stocks reversed course on Thursday and the S&P 500 information technology index closed up 2.2 percent after reaching a session high of 3.2 percent, helping push the S&P 500 up 1.4 percent, with the Dow and Nasdaq also rallying."All the fears now look overblown. Interest rates, the concern about tariffs, we're going to get into a trade war," said Doug Cote, chief market strategist at Voya Investment Management in New York. "But now clearer heads are prevailing. If anything this is a buying opportunity."AdvertisementTechnology gains were led by Facebook, Intel, Alphabet and Microsoft shares."Tech will always lead the charge in a bull market. And we're in a bull market," said Cote.AdvertisementThe Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 254.69 points, or 1.07 percent, to close at 24,103.11, the S&P 500 gained 35.87 points, or 1.38 percent, to 2,640.87 and the Nasdaq Composite added 114.22 points, or 1.64 percent, to 7,063.45.
            Position of the S. & P. 500 index at 1-minute intervals on Thursday.        2,6602,6402,620Previous close2,605.002,60010 a.m.Noon2 p.m.4 p.m.MARCH 29, 2018
Investors were unfazed by economic reports showing a slight increase in consumer spending and initial jobless claims dropping to a more than 45-year low.
            Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.        400,0004-week moving average300 2001000ONDJFMMARCH 29, 2018
In other data, core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose by 1.6 percent year-on-year. The index, the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation, has been below the U.S. central bank's 2 percent target since mid-2012.Amazon.com closed up 1.1 percent, recovering from a 4.6 percent drop after U.S. President Donald Trump criticized the online retailer via Twitter early Thursday, claiming without evidence that the company pays "little to no taxes to state & local governments."Stocks shot up earlier in the week as comments from officials in the United States and China suggested the world's two largest economies would renegotiate tariffs and trade imbalances, averting a trade war.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But worries that retaliatory tariffs would harm the global economy led investors to cut equity exposure to a four-month low in March and reduce holdings of U.S. stocks to the lowest in nearly two years, according to a Reuters poll.Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 3.66-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 2.23-to-1 ratio favored advancers.Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.49 billion shares, compared to the 7.29 billion average over the last 20 trading days.(Reporting by Stephen Culp in New York; Additional reporting by Charles Mikolajczak; Editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MICHAEL D. SHEAR, NICK WINGFIELD and CECILIA KANGMARCH 29, 2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump escalated his attack on Amazon on Thursday, saying in an early-morning tweet that the online retail behemoth does not pay enough taxes — and strongly suggesting that he may use the power of his office to rein in the nation’s largest e-commerce business.Mr. Trump accused Amazon, one of the country’s most recognizable and successful brands, of putting thousands of local retailers out of business and said the company was using the United States Postal Service as its “Delivery Boy.”The president has lashed out publicly against the giant company and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, on Twitter more than a dozen times since 2015. And privately, people close to him said, Mr. Trump repeatedly brings up his disdain for the company, often set off by his anger at negative stories in The Washington Post, which is owned by Mr. Bezos.By focusing on the threat to small businesses, Mr. Trump has touched on the unease of Amazon’s disruptive force. The company has changed industries as varied as publishing, groceries and health care. That has helped the company grow to be worth more than $700 billion, but it has also made it a convenient target.AdvertisementThe president has little clear authority to take action against the company. Some Amazon critics have suggested antitrust actions against the company, but the moves would need to come from the independent Federal Trade Commission or the Justice Department, where officials have promised to keep politics out of its corporate competition cases.AdvertisementLindsay Walters, a White House spokeswoman, told reporters on Thursday that “the president has expressed his concerns with Amazon. We have no actions at this time.”Still, Mr. Trump’s willingness to again single out Amazon and characterize it as a tax cheat and a job killer is a remarkable use of the presidential bully pulpit that could have serious implications for the company even without any formal moves by the federal government.His comments have already spooked investors, sending Amazon stocks tumbling Wednesday after an article on the website Axios about his anger toward the company. The stock fell further after his tweet on Thursday, though prices rebounded later.The tech industry is increasingly on the defensive. Facebook is under attack in Washington for its handling of personal data and the social network’s role in the 2016 election. And the recent death of a pedestrian by a self-driving car has renewed criticism of Uber.“The general principle that I know deeply concerns the president is that we need to live in a world where the government sets a level playing field between internet vendors and mom and pop stores,” Kevin Hassett, the chair of the president’s council on economic advisers, said Thursday on Fox Business.Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment.Several current and former officials said that Mr. Trump regularly conflates Amazon with The Post. Mr. Bezos owns the paper privately, separate from his role at Amazon.Brad Parscale, the president’s 2020 campaign manager, on Thursday channeled Mr. Trump’s anger about The Post in a tweet of his own, saying: “Do not forget to mention that @amazon has probably 10x the data on every American that @facebook does. All that data and own a political newspaper, The @washingtonpost. Hmm…”AdvertisementAnd far-right, conspiracy-fanning websites — some of which Mr. Trump is known to read — have for months stoked the idea that The Post is in cahoots with the C.I.A. because the agency contracts with Amazon to provide cloud-based data storage. Last November, a headline at one of those sites, Infowars, said: “BEZOS & DEEP STATE UNITE: AMAZON LAUNCHES CLOUD SERVICE FOR CIA.”The Post declined to comment.One person close to Mr. Trump, who asked for anonymity to discuss private discussions in the Oval Office, said that the president mused about the issue of Amazon and taxes at least a half-dozen times in the last six months. The president has repeatedly claimed that Amazon costs the Postal Service money even though officials have explained to him that is not the case. Amazon has said that the Postal Regulatory Commission, which oversees the service, has consistently found that its contracts with Amazon are profitable.People close to Mr. Trump say the president is convinced that Amazon unfairly benefits from tax laws. The internet giant collects sales taxes on its own products in all 45 states that have one, but third-party vendors who sell products on the site often do not collect sales tax, a fact that rivals say is unfair. In addition, some municipalities complain that the company does not collect local taxes.In April, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in an case on whether to allow states to impose sales taxes on all internet sales. Many observers believe the justices are poised to reverse its 1992 ruling that exempted online retailers with no physical presence in a state.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump hears the sales tax complaints frequently during visits with his wealthy friends at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, and in meetings at the White House, several aides and associates said. One person familiar with his thinking said that the president believes many of his core supporters are hurt when Amazon disrupts the local businesses where they live.The president’s critique is shared by some of his usual adversaries in the Democratic Party. Like many of Mr. Trump’s wealthy Republican friends, Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota, has been critical of Amazon’s growing power in the marketplace.“The Trump administration should rein in giants like Amazon because they have an unfair stranglehold on the competition, not because the president has a personal feud with a company’s C.E.O.,” Mr. Ellison said in a statement on Thursday.There was also some irony in the criticism coming from Mr. Trump, who has boasted about his dexterity in avoiding paying taxes. “This is the guy who said that not paying taxes ‘makes me smart,’” said Matt Gardner, senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan research organization.How the president could slow Amazon, beyond take to Twitter or complain about the company in speeches, is unclear.AdvertisementIf Mr. Trump were to pressure the Justice Department to pursue antitrust enforcement action against Amazon, it would be a sharp break from tradition, experts say, because the White House has kept a far distance from those cases for decades.“It would be a gross violation and abuse of our due process,” said Diana Moss, president of the American Antitrust Institute.But the president has repeatedly crossed lines that his predecessors have observed. In the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, he has pressured Justice Department officials to investigate his Democratic rivals and to abandon the investigation of himself and his associates.AT&T and Time Warner have suggested Mr. Trump played a role in the Justice Department’s decision to block the companies’ $85.4 billion media merger. Makan Delrahim, the head of antitrust at the Justice Department, has said under oath in Congress that he would not allow the White House to impact his decisions over that merger or any other cases.Mr. Trump also surprised antitrust experts with his swift decision to block Broadcom’s merger with Qualcomm earlier this month, after a review by a government panel on foreign investments. The president has direct authority to block a merger with foreign companies that pose national security concerns.Amazon has tried, through lobbyists and outside consultants, to meet with administration officials and members of Congress to counter arguments about the company’s tax collection and its relationship with the Postal Service.The size of company’s lobbying staff has ballooned in recent years, according to public filings, focusing largely on drones, transportation, taxes and cybersecurity. It has hired antitrust consultants over the past year.In 2015, shortly after Mr. Trump started his attacks against the company, Mr. Bezos joked on Twitter about sending the candidate into space on a rocket made by Blue Origin, a space exploration start-up Mr. Bezos owns.But when Mr. Trump became the Republican nominee and then president, Mr. Bezos and Amazon stopped responding to his attacks, seeing little upside in a public quarrel with him, according to two people briefed on the decision. The people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the conversations were private, said that these days, Mr. Trump’s tweets were more likely to prompt eye-rolling inside the company than any serious effort at crisis control.Michael D. Shear and Cecilia Kang reported from Washington and Nick Wingfield from Seattle. Katie Rogers and Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: In President’s Tirade on Amazon, The Rage Might Be for the C.E.O.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SAPNA MAHESHWARIMARCH 31, 2018
Amazon ran a commercial on this year’s Super Bowl that pretended its digital assistant Alexa had temporarily lost her voice. It featured celebrities like Rebel Wilson, Cardi B and even the company’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos.While the ad riffed on what Alexa can say to users, the more intriguing question may be what she and other digital assistants can hear — especially as more people bring smart speakers into their homes.Amazon and Google, the leading sellers of such devices, say the assistants record and process audio only after users trigger them by pushing a button or uttering a phrase like “Hey, Alexa” or “O.K., Google.” But each company has filed patent applications, many of them still under consideration, that outline an array of possibilities for how devices like these could monitor more of what users say and do. That information could then be used to identify a person’s desires or interests, which could be mined for ads and product recommendations.In one set of patent applications, Amazon describes how a “voice sniffer algorithm” could be used on an array of devices, like tablets and e-book readers, to analyze audio almost in real time when it hears words like “love,” bought” or “dislike.” A diagram included with the application illustrated how a phone call between two friends could result in one receiving an offer for the San Diego Zoo and the other seeing an ad for a Wine of the Month Club membership.AdvertisementSome patent applications from Google, which also owns the smart home product maker Nest Labs, describe how audio and visual signals could be used in the context of elaborate smart home setups.AdvertisementOne application details how audio monitoring could help detect that a child is engaging in “mischief” at home by first using speech patterns and pitch to identify a child’s presence, one filing said. A device could then try to sense movement while listening for whispers or silence, and even program a smart speaker to “provide a verbal warning.”A separate application regarding personalizing content for people while respecting their privacy noted that voices could be used to determine a speaker’s mood using the “volume of the user’s voice, detected breathing rate, crying and so forth,” and medical condition “based on detected coughing, sneezing and so forth.”The same application outlines how a device could “recognize a T-shirt on a floor of the user’s closet” bearing Will Smith’s face and combine that with a browser history that shows searches for Mr. Smith “to provide a movie recommendation that displays, ‘You seem to like Will Smith. His new movie is playing in a theater near you.’”In a statement, Amazon said the company took “privacy seriously” and did “not use customers’ voice recordings for targeted advertising.” Amazon said that it filed “a number of forward-looking patent applications that explore the full possibilities of new technology,” and that they “take multiple years to receive and do not necessarily reflect current developments to products and services.”Google said it did not “use raw audio to extrapolate moods, medical conditions or demographic information.” The company added, “All devices that come with the Google Assistant, including Google Home, are designed with user privacy in mind.”Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used and are years from even being possible.Still, Jamie Court, the president of Consumer Watchdog, a nonprofit advocacy group in Santa Monica, Calif., which published a study of some of the patent applications in December, said, “When you read parts of the applications, it’s really clear that this is spyware and a surveillance system meant to serve you up to advertisers.”The companies, Mr. Court added, are “basically going to be finding out what our home life is like in qualitative ways.”AdvertisementGoogle called Consumer Watchdog’s claims “unfounded,” and said, “Prospective product announcements should not necessarily be inferred from our patent applications.”A recent Gallup poll found that 22 percent of Americans used devices like Google Home or Amazon Echo. The growing adoption of smart speakers means that gadgets, some of which contain up to eight microphones and a camera, are being placed in kitchens and bedrooms and used to answer questions, control appliances and make phone calls. Apple recently introduced its own version, called the HomePod.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But many consumers are also becoming increasingly nervous that tech companies are eavesdropping on them in order to serve them targeted ads, no matter how often the companies deny it. The recent revelations that a British political data firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users has only added to the public’s wariness over the collection and use of personal information.Facebook, in fact, had planned to unveil its new internet-connected home products at a developer conference in May, according to Bloomberg News, which reported that the company had scuttled that idea partly in response to the recent fallout.Both Amazon and Google have emphasized that devices with Alexa and Google Assistant store voice recordings from users only after they are intentionally triggered. Amazon’s Echo and its newer smart speakers with screens use lights to show when they are streaming audio to the cloud, and consumers can view and delete their recordings on the Alexa smartphone app or on Amazon’s website (though they are warned online that “may degrade” their experience). Google Home also has a light that indicates when it is recording, and users can similarly see and delete that audio online.Amazon says voice recordings may help fulfill requests and improve its services, while Google says the data helps it learn over time to provide better, more personalized responses.But the ecosystem around voice data is still evolving.Take the thousands of third-party apps developed for Alexa called “skills,” which can be used to play games, dim lights or provide cleaning advice. While Amazon said it didn’t share users’ actual recordings with third parties, its terms of use for Alexa say it may share the content of their requests or information like their ZIP codes. Google says  it will “generally” not provide audio recordings to third-party service providers, but may send transcriptions of what people say.And some devices have already shown that they are capable of recording more than what users expect. Google faced some embarrassment last fall when a batch of Google Home Minis that it distributed at company events and to journalists were almost constantly recording.AdvertisementIn a starker example, detectives investigating a death at an Arkansas home sought access to audio on an Echo device in 2016. Amazon resisted, but the recordings were ultimately shared with the permission of the defendant, James Bates. (A judge later dismissed Mr. Bates’s first-degree murder charge based on separate evidence.)Kathleen Zellner, his lawyer, said in an interview that the Echo had been recording more than it was supposed to. Mr. Bates told her that it had been regularly lighting up without being prompted, and had logged conversations that were unrelated to Alexa commands, including a conversation about football in a separate room, she said.“It was just extremely sloppy the way the activation occurred,” Ms. Zellner said.The Electronic Privacy Information Center has recommended more robust disclosure rules for internet-connected devices, including an “algorithmic transparency requirement” that would help people understand how their data was being used and what automated decisions were then being made about them.Sam Lester, the center’s consumer privacy fellow, said he believed that the abilities of new smart home devices highlighted the need for United States regulators to get more involved with how consumer data was collected and used.“A lot of these technological innovations can be very good for consumers,” he said. “But it’s not the responsibility of consumers to protect themselves from these products any more than it’s their responsibility to protect themselves from the safety risks in food and drugs. It’s why we established a Food and Drug Administration years ago.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated Jeff Bezos’s role in Amazon’s Super Bowl ad. He was trying to figure out what to do when Alexa lost her voice; he did not fill in for her.Contact Sapna Maheshwari at sapna@nytimes.com or follow her on Twitter: @sapna.A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Hey, Alexa, What Can You Hear? And What Will You Do With It?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHARLES McDERMID and INYOUNG KANGMARCH 29, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The Koreas set a meeting date, a homecoming in Pakistan and lives adrift on Cambodia’s waterways. Here’s what you need to know: • Russia hits back.The Kremlin announced that it would expel 150 Western diplomats and close the American consulate in St. Petersburg, as tit-for-tat retaliation continues over a nerve-agent attack on British soil that London and its allies have blamed on Moscow.Britain said it would review the cases of 700 wealthy Russians who were granted visas largely because they could invest millions of dollars. It also signaled an openness to blocking the Russian government from British financial markets.The moves came on a day of good news in the poisoning attack. Yulia Skripal, above, who was attacked with her father, Sergei Skripal, “is no longer in a critical condition.”_____• It’s a date.North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea agreed to meet for the first time on April 27.AdvertisementThey’ll get together at the truce village of Panmunjom at Peace House, meaning that Mr. Kim would become the first leader from the North to set foot in the South since the Korean War.AdvertisementMr. Kim has signaled that he would meet with President Trump, though no date has been set._____• “I never wanted to leave my country.”Malala Yousafzai, the world’s youngest Nobel laureate, returned to Pakistan for the first time since she was gravely wounded there by a Taliban attack in 2012.Ms. Yousafzai, now studying at Oxford, is expected to stay mostly in Islamabad, the capital, during her four-day visit. She met Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi on Thursday.“I am just 20 years old, but I have seen a lot in life,” said Ms. Yousafzai, speaking in a choked voice about how she watched the Swat region slide into extremism and terrorism._____• “My only remorse is not being able to do more than dedicating my life to my country.”Our Overlooked series remembers the life of Yu Gwan-sun, a Korean independence activist who organized peaceful protests against Japan’s colonial rule.“Even if my fingernails are torn out, my nose and ears are ripped apart, and my legs and arms are crushed,” she wrote in prison, “this physical pain does not compare to the pain of losing my nation.”Ms. Yu was tortured to death at 17 but is remembered as the face of Korea’s 35-year fight for independence.Advertisement_____• In Cambodia, hundreds of floating villages, comprising tens of thousands of families, thrive on the Tonle Sap River and the lake of the same name.Some of the villages, a reporter for the Times wrote, “are labyrinthine extensions of shore towns, with broad Venetian canals and twisting alleyways, floating temples, churches, schoolrooms and oil-black ice factories.”The villages are home almost exclusively to ethnic Vietnamese, a minority whose status in Cambodian society is also perpetually adrift.• The Facebook scandal was a reminder: You’ve entrusted your digital life to a surveillance machine. Can social media be saved? Our columnist offers some solutions.• An astonishing $100 billion: That’s how much Facebook has lost in market capitalization since Feb. 2. The plunge has investors wary of other social media and internet stocks.• Detailed negotiations no more. President Trump wants to remake global trade in a matter of months. Here’s how he’s trying to do it.• The U.S. plans to invoke an emergency law to limit Chinese investment in sensitive technological sectors, ranging from microchips to 5G wireless.• Weeks after it was seized by the Chinese government, Anbang Insurance is still offering “you snooze, you lose” investments that sound conservative — they are anything but.Advertisement• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Indian officials were ordered to stay away from next weekend’s “Thank You India” events hosted by the Dalai Lama, ahead of tense meetings with Beijing. [The New York Times]• Amal Clooney, the prominent human rights lawyer, joined the legal team representing two Reuters reporters jailed in Myanmar. [Reuters]• Ecuador again cut off internet access for Julian Assange, who lives in its embassy in London, amid concerns that he’s harming the country’s international relationships. [The New York Times]• “I know I’ll regret this for the rest of my life.” Steve Smith, the disgraced former captain of the Australia cricket team, broke down in tears as he apologized on live television for a cheating scandal that has shocked the sport. [The New York Times]• In Venezuela, at least 68 people died after a fire broke out during a riot at a jail in the northern city of Valencia. [The New York Times]• “I’m really happy now.” Eiko Kadono, 83, the Japanese children’s author known for “Majo no Takkyubin” (“Kiki’s Delivery Service”), won the 2018 Hans Christian Andersen Award, considered the Nobel Prize of children’s literature. [The Asahi Shimbun]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette.• Use these tips to throw a healthy and relaxed dinner party.• Recipe of the day: End the week with a quick, delicious dinner of pan-roasted salmon with jalapeño.Advertisement• A farewell wave: Mick Fanning, a three-time world champion surfer and Australian hero who gained fame for punching a shark, is leaving the sport this week after his final competition. Above, Mr. Fanning in a smoke ritual on Wednesday.• License to thrill: With spies in the news, a new $50 million espionage museum has opened in New York. It’s “part museum, part ride,” our reporter writes.• Last week we told you about Ata, a tiny mummy once rumored to be an alien. Now, Chile wants to know how the skeleton was exhumed and smuggled abroad, and researchers have called the medical study unethical.U.S. college basketball’s signature tournament has reached its peak: The Final Four is on Saturday, setting up the championship game on Monday. Here’s our full coverage.The N.C.A.A. tournament, also known as the Big Dance, is among the most cherished rites of American sports. About 350 colleges and universities field a team in the top division, compared with 65 in football. At the end of the regular season, 68 teams move on to a knockout tournament.The first men’s tournament was held in 1939, and for more than a decade only eight teams were invited. The women’s tourney started in 1982. The moniker “March Madness” became part of pop vernacular in the mid-1980s, stemming from the David-versus-Goliath upsets that always shock players, coaches, fans and bookmakers.The odds of picking a perfect bracket are 1 in 9.2 quintillion. Even so, it’s almost a duty of U.S. citizenship to fill out a tournament bracket. (Last year, ESPN.com reported that some 70 million brackets were filled out and a total of $10.4 billion was wagered.)The men’s Final Four consists of Kansas, Michigan Villanova and Loyola-Chicago, a team that entered as a 300-to-1 underdog and wasn’t supposed to win its first game.AdvertisementIn the women’s tournament, Connecticut, Louisville, Mississippi State and Notre Dame are the last teams standing.Matt Futterman contributed reporting. _____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAN LEVINMARCH 30, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Russia retaliates, migrants in limbo and celebrating Passover in Spain. Here’s the latest:• Russia hits back.The Kremlin announced that it would expel 150 Western diplomats and close the American Consulate in St. Petersburg, above, as tit-for-tat retaliation continues over a nerve-agent attack on British soil that London and its allies have attributed to Moscow.Britain said it would review the cases of 700 wealthy Russians who were granted visas largely because they could invest millions of dollars. It also signaled an openness to blocking the Russian government from British financial markets.The moves came on a day of good news in the poisoning attack. Yulia Skripal, who was attacked with her father, Sergei Skripal, “is no longer in critical condition.”_____• “Why am I here?” Two years after the E.U. and Turkey struck a deal to halt the flow of asylum seekers, thousands remain stranded on the Greek island of Lesbos.AdvertisementOne of our reporters visited a holding camp on the island, above, where she found miserable conditions and growing despair among those unable to move on, yet unwilling to go home.AdvertisementStuck in limbo, their plight reflects the enduring humanitarian toll of the migration crisis, which is expected to grow again as winter fades._____• Jeremy Corbyn, the British Labour Party’s most left-wing leader in decades, has galvanized supporters eager to get rid of the country’s Conservative government.But a mounting crisis over accusations of anti-Semitism has recharged a bitter argument about his leadership and forced many liberal British Jews to question whether they still have a political home in the party._____• It’s a date.North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea agreed to meet for the first time on April 27.They’ll get together in the truce village of Panmunjom at Peace House, above, meaning that Mr. Kim would become the first leader from the North to set foot in the South since the Korean War.Mr. Kim has signaled that he would meet with President Trump, though no date has been set._____• In Denmark, breaking up is about to get … slower.A push to digitalize official services makes it easy for Danes to view public records and even get divorced online.AdvertisementMaybe too easy, at least in a country with one of Europe’s highest divorce rates.So instead of ending their marriages in a few clicks, couples with children will soon be legally required to wait three months — and get counseling. The change is a rare government acknowledgment that technological innovation can’t solve every societal problem.• The Facebook scandal was a reminder: You’ve entrusted your digital life to a surveillance machine. Can social media be saved? Our columnist offers some solutions.• An astonishing $100 billion: That’s how much Facebook has lost in market capitalization since Feb. 2. The plunge has investors wary of other social media and internet stocks.• Hacked: Data was stolen from 150 million users of the MyFitnessPal nutrition app, according to its owner, Under Armour. The security breach involved user names, email addresses and passwords.• The U.S. plans to invoke an emergency law to limit Chinese investment in sensitive technological sectors, ranging from microchips to 5G wireless.• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Former President Nicolas Sarkozy of France will stand trial on influence-peddling charges, the latest in his series of mounting legal woes. [The New York Times]• Christopher Steele, the author of the notorious Trump dossier, provided a secret report to the F.B.I. asserting that a former Russian minister was murdered in Washington by enforcers hired by an oligarch close to Vladimir Putin. [BuzzFeed]What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Robert Mercer, the billionaire Trump donor behind Cambridge Analytica, secretly volunteers as a police officer. But he’s not doing it to protect the public. Rather, the badge lets him carry a concealed gun anywhere in the U.S. [Bloomberg]Advertisement• In the U.S., the Fox News host Laura Ingraham apologized for taunting a survivor of last month’s school shooting in Parkland, Fla., as at least four companies confirmed they would pull ads from her show. [The New York Times]• Protesters rallied in Ireland and Northern Ireland after two professional rugby players were acquitted of rape. [The Guardian]• Malala Yousafzai, the world’s youngest Nobel laureate, returned to her native Pakistan for the first time since she was gravely wounded there as a child by a Taliban attack in 2012. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.•Recipe of the day: End the week with a quick, delicious dinner of pan-roasted salmon with jalapeño.• Use these tips to throw a healthy and relaxed dinner party.• Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette.• The Jewish holiday of Passover, celebrating liberation and rebirth, begins tonight. In an Opinion piece, a writer traveling through Europe explores the joy and sadness of observing this ancient tradition in Spain, a “land of Jewish ghosts.”• Last week we told you about Ata, a tiny mummy once rumored to be an alien. Now, Chile wants to know how the skeleton was exhumed and smuggled abroad, and researchers have called the medical study unethical.Are you familiar with the term “March Madness”? Americans are awash in it, but for their colleagues abroad, here’s the short form.AdvertisementU.S. college basketball’s signature tournament has reached its peak: The Final Four is on Saturday, setting up the championship game on Monday. Here’s our full coverage.The N.C.A.A. tournament, also known as the Big Dance, is among the most cherished rites of American sports. About 350 colleges and universities field teams in the top division, compared with 65 in football. At the end of the regular season, 68 teams move on to a knockout tournament.The first men’s tournament was held in 1939, and for more than a decade only eight teams were invited. The women’s tourney started in 1982. The moniker “March Madness” became part of pop vernacular in the mid-1980s, stemming from the David-versus-Goliath upsets that always shock players, coaches, fans and bookmakers.The odds of picking a perfect bracket are 1 in 9.2 quintillion. Even so, it’s almost a duty of U.S. citizenship to fill out a tournament bracket. (Last year, ESPN.com reported that some 70 million brackets were filled out and $10.4 billion was wagered.)The men’s Final Four consists of Kansas, Michigan Villanova and Loyola-Chicago, a team that entered as a 300-to-1 underdog and wasn’t supposed to win its first game.In the women’s tournament, Connecticut, Louisville, Mississippi State and Notre Dame are the last teams standing.Matt Futterman contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.AdvertisementWhat would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Paul Carmichael, the chef, delivers a profoundly pleasurable experience at the Sydney location of David Chang‘s restaurant group.
Australia Fare By                     
BESHA RODELL

MARCH 29, 2018
SYDNEY, Australia — As a teenager in St. James Parish, Barbados, Paul Carmichael spent his free time writing letters to New York City restaurants. He had been dreaming of a cooking career in America ever since a home economics teacher, sensing talent, suggested he consider attending the Culinary Institute of America. At 15, Mr. Carmichael sent away for a Zagat Guide and began writing to the top-rated restaurants, asking for work. (Lespinasse was the only one to reply.)Mr. Carmichael’s father had spent hard years working as a butler and bartender, and did not see it as a desirable path. He sought to break his son’s romantic notions by getting him an unpaid job at a local restaurant. The plan backfired — Mr. Carmichael became hooked.When he made it to the Culinary Institute, his final thesis focused on Caribbean food. Then in his early 20s, he drew connections between slavery and colonialism and sustenance.He studied the ways in which food was often one of the only aspects of African culture that maintained an unbroken thread through generations, as language and religion and family were purposefully and systematically stripped from enslaved people. He dug into the history of certain dishes, tracing the heritage of flavors and the people who brought them to the Caribbean, and focused on how those flavors were melded and reshaped by new ingredients and new generations of cooks.AdvertisementNearly 20 years later, in a multimillion-dollar kitchen in a casino here in Sydney, Mr. Carmichael is basically cooking that thesis, albeit through the lens of decades of experience in some of the best restaurants in America. (After graduation, he went on to work with Marcus Samuelsson, Wylie Dufresne and eventually David Chang.)
CreditPetrina Tinslay for The New York Times        Momofuku Seiobo, which opened in the Star casino in 2011, is part of the sprawling Chang empire. But since Mr. Carmichael took over as the chef in 2015, Seiobo has had less and less in common with other Momofuku restaurants. Mr. Carmichael spent some time as the chef at Mr. Chang’s Má Pêche in New York, and the two men share a fascination with the place where texture and umami and sensuality meet.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Momofuku Seiobo’s website says that it draws inspiration from the bounty of Australian produce and suggests that it specializes in no particular cuisine. But if you ask Mr. Carmichael, he is clear on the matter: Momofuku Seiobo is a Caribbean restaurant.AdvertisementThat was not always the case. In the restaurant’s early days, the kitchen was headed by a British chef, Ben Greeno, who served Mr. Chang’s famous pork buns alongside a globally influenced menu. What remains from those days is the format: a $185-per-person meal that on its surface looks very much like high-end tasting menus everywhere.MARCH 28, 2018
At Má Pêche, but also early in his tenure at Seiobo, Mr. Carmichael says he was trying to be two people. One was the cook he imagined Mr. Chang wanted him to be, making food that was more in line with the rest of the Momofuku empire. The other was truer to his own sensibilities.Mr. Carmichael says he didn’t know exactly what he was going to cook when he accepted Mr. Chang’s offer to move to Sydney, though he was given explicit instruction to do whatever he pleased.He wasn’t quite prepared for the quality of tropical ingredients here — so much of what he had grown up eating and cooking in Barbados spilled forth from Sydney’s market stalls. Slowly, and with the encouragement of the longtime front-of-house manager Kylie Javier Ashton, a new Seiobo emerged.The severe black-tiled room is often filled with the soft thrum of reggae music. Cooks deliver dishes and name-check origins: Antigua for sweet potato ducana with currants and a deep, sweet “Caribbean XO” sauce; Puerto Rico for a bowl of mofongo that arrives in a large mortar.Customers are given a pestle and asked to grind the mixture of plantains, garlic and chicharrones into a thick paste themselves — one of many interactive interludes in the meal.A shallow glass of intensely flavored pork broth accompanies the mofongo, made more extreme by a squiggle of smoked rendered pork fat. It delivers a level of pleasurable excess you might expect from a Chang restaurant, but set against the grounded moderation of the plantains, it provides elegant balance — porky treble to the dish’s starchy bass.Cou cou, often considered the national dish of Barbados, is here reimagined with fresh corn in place of cornmeal, and Sterling caviar in place of the flying fish the dish usually accompanies. The result is a dream of creamy puréed corn with a swoosh of okra and the saline pop of mellow caviar.AdvertisementIt makes for a glorious mouthful, modern and soulful and rooted in sense memory. Even if the memory is not your own, you taste its recollective pull.MARCH 28, 2018
The apex of the meal comes when servers present a pot holding live marron. A few minutes later, the shellfish are back again, split open and smothered in a bright, delicately spicy sofrito.There is no way to approach the dish without making a glorious mess, while scooping the tender flesh awash in sticky sauce and just the right touch of stank from the roe and head of the spindly beasts.This is the kind of food that requires full abandon. (Wet towels are provided.)Mr. Carmichael is presenting a beautifully considered tribute to his birthplace, with all the thought and care and honor of fine dining, and all the fun of Momofuku. Many diners are likely to find the experience quite moving as well, particularly those with a personal connection to the history and culture upon which the chef’s long-ago thesis was based.That audience is primarily elsewhere, and I can’t help but think how much America might benefit from this profoundly pleasurable expression of African and Caribbean foodways.That this incarnation of Momofuku Seiobo exists in Australia makes us a lucky country indeed.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Times’s Australia bureau would love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com, or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.80 Pyrmont St(Murray St)Pyrmont02 9657 9169seiobo.momofuku.comRecommended Dishes Prix fixe menu; For the bar menu: fried chicken sandwich; plantain tostada with ceviche; busted roti; bbq eggplant.Drinks and Wine Fantastic wine list, good cocktails. Pairings and reduced pairings are available with the prix fixe menu, as well as a creative non-alcoholic pairing.Price $$$$ (very expensive)Open Monday to Saturday for dinner.Reservations Accepted, and vital for the dining room. Reservations are not accepted for the five bar seats.Wheelchair Access The dining room is wheelchair accessible. The bathroom is through the kitchen but is accessible; no handrails.
                This information was last updated: March 29, 2018 An earlier version of this article misstated the year that Momofuku Seiobo opened. It was 2011, not 2012.A version of this review appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Caribbean Savor, Australian Bounty.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Bill McKibbenRIPTON, Vt. — If towns could write personal ads, this one would be taking pen in hand for the first time in 42 years — making a pitch for companionship, a pitch aimed at finding someone who might be willing to take a chance on something a little out of the Twittery Trumpy twitchy mainstream.We’re a small place — 600 or so souls — on the spine of the Green Mountains in the center of the state, not far from Middlebury College. And we’re about to lose the heart and soul of our community, the husband and wife who have run our general store since 1976.Dick and Sue Collitt are retiring, and we need someone to buy them out and take their place. Because if you don’t have a store, you can’t really have a town. True, we live in an age when stores seem like relics. So far this year, thousands of big retail outlets have closed, including Toys “R” Us, as Americans shop online instead. It’s entirely possible that there’s almost no one left who thinks being a shopkeeper is a useful, fulfilling life. But it is, at least here.So here’s the pitch. Two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars gets you the most classic of country stores, not in a Colonial Williamsburg kind of way but in a slightly sagging kind of way — there’s a potbellied wood stove up against the deli counter, right next to the coffee pot. There’s penny candy against the wall (Atomic Fireballs!). And pretty much everything else: brake fluid, animal crackers, 3-in-One oil, leather boot laces. The latest issue of North American Whitetail (“the big buck authority”). Eggs from local hens; pickled beets and sweet relish that some of the neighbors have put up. Lasagna noodles, rock salt, kitty litter, meatloaf mix, clothespins, starch, cupcake papers.10 PhotosView Slide Show ›Jacob Hannah for The New York TimesA third of the store is given over to a rack of postboxes that undoubtedly will wind up in the Smithsonian someday, and a closet-size office for the postal clerk who comes by for two hours in the morning. You’d think losing all that retail space would be a drawback, but consider it again: Every one in town pretty much has to come by every day or two. Guaranteed traffic, right past the milk case. There’s a two-bedroom apartment upstairs and a small barn out back. It will be your world.Also out back, the beautiful Middlebury River flows through a deep gorge; out front, Route 125 leads up from the college town below, the conduit for a steady stream of bike riders who pause at the store to quench their thirst. In the winter, skiers stop by on their way home from the world-class Nordic trails two miles away, and from the family-friendly college ski hill a little farther up the pass. In the summer, authors from around the world flow in for the famed Bread Loaf Writers’ Conference; in the fall, the colors are unmatched.And so the business is steady, reliable. For someone used to a rural standard of living, it would seem fairly normal; for someone from Westchester County, N.Y., a big step down. But Dick and Sue put two sons through college on jars of peanut butter and fill-ups at the single gas pump. “We didn’t grow up here,” Sue said — they came from the Philadelphia suburbs, almost on a whim. “Our old friends have homes in Hilton Head now or the Jersey Shore, but they all think our life was the best thing anyone ever did.”Because, you know, people talk to you. All the time, all day long. The door opens with a jingle, someone walks in and there’s talk: weather, the news. “I don’t want to go,” said Sue, which is more than a lot of people can say about their jobs. “But it’s time.”If this were a regular personal ad, it would stop right here. You’d find out about the drawbacks down the road. But we don’t want someone arriving on false premises. So it’s worth knowing that taking care of a town is hard work. The store is closed on Christmas, and it’s open only four hours on Thanksgiving. Otherwise, it’s 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday to Friday, and a mere 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on weekends. “One guy said he was interested in buying it, but he planned to take off a couple of months each winter,” Sue said. “I told him it wasn’t for sale to him.”And truth be told, it’s not for someone looking to fully belong to the 21st century. We do have internet, but your cellphone won’t do you much good in Ripton. Contrasted with, say, Amazon, the store is not exactly shiny. Without a Facebook account or a web page, the Ripton store has no e-commerce platform at all.Only a porch, with a bench for sitting, and next to it an ice machine. Or, rather, an IEC machine. “One year they sent a guy up to replace the unit. He was a big guy, as you’d expect, but not too bright,” said Dick. “He put in the machine, and then he put on the letters, I-E-C. I watched him do it. I was fascinated.” Over time the sign became an emblem. Ten years later, when the ice company replaced the machine, ICE was spelled right, but Dick carefully cut out his own letters and restored the sign to the original so no one would be disappointed.If this makes sense to you, then you might be the match we’re looking for.Bill McKibben, a founder of 350.org who teaches environmental studies at Middlebury College, is the author, most recently, of “Radio Free Vermont: A Fable of Resistance.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 8:21 P.M. E.D.T.
FRANKFORT, Ky. —  Hundreds of Kentucky teachers called in sick Friday to protest last-minute changes to their pension system, forcing nearly two dozen districts to close while angry educators rallied outside the governor's office to demand he not sign the bill.With thunderous chants of "shut it down" echoing throughout the Capitol Rotunda, Democratic Attorney General Andy Beshear used a megaphone to announce he would sue to block the bill's implementation if Republican Gov. Matt Bevin signs it into law.Bevin had not signed the bill as of Friday afternoon. Thursday night, he tweeted public employees owe lawmakers a "debt of gratitude" for passing the bill.The show of force comes amid growing unrest among public educators nationwide, led by thousands of West Virginia teachers who walked off the job for nine days earlier this year to secure a 5 percent pay raise. Teacher unrest spread to another deep red state in Oklahoma, where the GOP-led legislature approved money for teacher raises and more school funding. Teachers are mulling whether the current offer from lawmakers is enough to avert a work stoppage.AdvertisementKentucky Education Association President Stephanie Winkler said the union did not organize Friday's school closures, saying "I can't control what teachers do."Advertisement"I support their right to call in sick if they are ill, and they are sick," Winkler said during a news conference at KEA headquarters, prompting some teachers in the crowd to begin coughing.Jefferson County officials in Louisville, one of the largest school districts in the country, said they couldn't get enough substitutes to cover all their classes Friday. In Fayette County, officials said more than a third of school employees in the Lexington district were staying home.North of Lexington, the Scott County school district called off classes. It said on Facebook that since the bill's passage, dozens of teachers requested substitutes to fill in for them Friday."We can currently only fill 54 of the nearly 150 that we need," the statement said. "That leaves too many classes not covered, which causes a situation that is unsafe and unproductive for students and staff."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Winkler said a statewide work stoppage is still an option. The union is planning a rally Monday at the state capitol when much of the state is on spring break and lawmakers are scheduled to reconvene to possibly vote on a two-year operating budget."If this budget is not in the best interest of public education students and public service then we will react," Winkler said.Kentucky's pension system is among the worst-funded in the country. The state is at least $41 billion short of the money it needs to pay retirement benefits over the next 30 years, placing a strain on state and local government finances.On Thursday night, the state legislature passed a bill that preserves most benefits for current public workers. But it would require all new teachers to use a hybrid plan that does not guarantee them a set pension amount when they retire. Instead, they would live off the money accumulated in their accounts from contributions and investment returns, which would be guaranteed not to lose money.Advertisement"Why would anybody go into teaching now in the state of Kentucky," asked Whitney Walker, a government teacher at Lafayette High School in Fayette County, the state's second-largest district that was forced to close Friday. "We need good teachers, not just anybody who would walk in the door."Beshear, a potential candidate for governor in 2019, said the bill violates the state's inviolable contract by freezing the accumulation of sick days to boost retirement benefits. Winkler said the KEA supports Beshear and will join him in any potential lawsuit. But Republicans who support the bill noted a proposal the KEA supported included similar language.Another option would be to challenge the way lawmakers passed the bill. A state law requires the bill to have a financial analysis before passing. But acting House Speaker David Osborne said the Supreme Court has interpreted that law as a House rule, which lawmakers can suspend at any time.___Schreiner reported from Louisville, Kentucky.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:08 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Nervous stock investors are hoping an unusually U.S. strong earnings season can restore some of the optimism that characterized equity markets last year.Imploding technology stocks and fears of a trade war have pummeled the market in recent days. Given the surge in volatility this year, there is no guarantee that worst is over.Analysts predict strong results when reporting season starts up next month, with first-quarter S&P 500 profit growth on track to be the highest in seven years, according to Thomson Reuters data. That follows a blockbuster fourth-quarter period, and recent corporate tax cuts that boosted forecasts for all of 2018.A robust earnings period would bring back the focus on fundamentals and possibly put a floor under prices, supporting views that the 9-year-old bull market will go on, strategists said.Advertisement"It's going to be earnings," said Robert Pavlik, chief investment strategist and senior portfolio manager at SlateStone Wealth LLC in New York. "The market has given up so much that earnings can start to redirect attention back into a market that has gotten much cheaper relative to where we were."AdvertisementWith this year's sell-off and rising profit forecasts, stocks also are near the cheapest on a price-to-earnings basis that they have been since late 2016. The S&P 500 is trading at about 16.5 times forward earnings, well below the 18.9 level it was at in mid-December, according to Thomson Reuters data.(To view a graphic on S&P PEs, click https://tmsnrt.rs/2E5ntYM)Stocks' rout in early February, and more recent selling following worries over a U.S. trade war with China, Facebook privacy issues and a collapse in other tech leaders, have made investors skittish and more likely to discount the relatively strong economic backdrop that persists."We've been caught up in all of these things that could happen and may happen and that the sky is falling, but once earnings season kicks in, it's headline news and that steals away some of the negativity," said Daniel Morgan, senior portfolio manager at Synovus Trust Company in Atlanta.To be sure, next week brings the monthly U.S. jobs report, a potential catalyst for further volatility. A strong payrolls report in early February had helped spark the stock sell-off that drove the S&P 500 more than 10-percent below its Jan. 26 record high - a "correction."The job report briefly drove up bond yields and touched off worries that the Federal Reserve may need to speed up interest rate hikes. The S&P 500 is now about 8 percent below its record.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Just in the first three months of this year, the S&P has jumped or fallen 1 percent on 23 trading days, three times the number of 1-percent moves it made in all of 2017. In 2016, there were 48 such days.Market participants agree that U.S. stocks are unlikely to return to the unusually calm conditions seen last year, when the Cboe Volatility Index, the most widely-followed barometer of expected near-term ups and downs for the S&P 500, logged a record low daily average reading of 11. The VIX hit a two-and-a-half-year high above 50 in early February.Expectations for U.S. earnings this year have jumped since December, when U.S. lawmakers approved sweeping changes to the tax law, including slashing the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent. Growth in other major economies has also lifted profit forecasts for the large stocks that generate a lot of sales overseas.AdvertisementAnalysts now expect first-quarter earnings for S&P 500 companies to rise 18.5 percent from a year ago, according to Thomson Reuters data.The first-quarter S&P profit forecast is up 6.3 percentage points since Jan. 1, while the forecast for all of 2018 is up 7.7 points since then, based on Thomson Reuters data.That suggests the bar might be relatively low for the first quarter. "You still could see some relative upside there," said Keith Parker, U.S. equity strategist at UBS.Many companies already have announced plans for increased buybacks and dividends, or bringing cash back from overseas, and other ways to use their tax savings. More news on that front is expected this reporting period, which is set to start with reports from JPMorgan Chase and others April 13."If we get a discussion of repatriation - what companies are going to bring back ... that will have a positive effect on the market," said Bucky Hellwig, senior vice president at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama.(Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; additional reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed; editing by Alden Bentley and Nick Zieminski)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:41 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  European investors have raised their bond allocations in March while keeping their equity exposure at six-month lows, in a month marked by a sharp tech sector selloff and brewing trade tensions that threatened to dent world economic growth.Reuters' monthly survey of 21 European asset managers showed average bond holdings rose 1.4 percentage points on the month to 42.1 percent, the highest since August 2017, while exposure to euro zone debt rose more than five percentage points to 59.1 percent, also a seven-month high.U.S. debt allocations rose to 20.7 percent, the highest since last September, up from 18.2 percent in February.The poll was conducted between March 15-28, a period when the FAANG group of U.S. technology firms - Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix and Alphabet's Google - saw a hefty reversal that took the S&P 500's tech index down more than 10 percent on the month.AdvertisementIt also coincided with U.S. President Donald Trump announcing $60 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods, alongside levies on steel and aluminium imports from several countries.AdvertisementThe fears of tit-for-tat protectionist tariffs and trade wars burst on to markets just as softer purchasing manager surveys seemed to imply that economic growth, at least in the developed world, might be peaking.That's especially so in the euro zone where economic sentiment has slipped for three straight months and Citi's economic surprise index has tumbled into negative territory after a long period on positive ground.Two-thirds of the fund managers who answered a question on the topic thought euro zone economic growth had already peaked in this cycle, though they saw a sharp deterioration as unlikely.Accordingly, the share of euro zone stocks in equity portfolios slipped to 29.7 percent - the second-lowest level since November 2014, poll data showed."Euro zone growth has most likely peaked," Colin Harte, head of research and portfolio manager at BNP Paribas Asset Management said, though he added: "We do not expect it to fall sharply over the balance of 2018/early-2019, unless the world experiences a trade war."Most expected regional growth to stay above potential, noting ultra-low borrowing costs even if the European Central Bank ends its bond purchase programme this year.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."A (growth) peak is not what matters. What will be key is the ability of not decelerating too quickly. In this regard, there are no signs that a strong deceleration is on the cards," said Francois Savary, chief investment officer of Swiss wealth manager Prime Partners.Trade could be the unknown factor, however. Asked whether an all-out trade war would hurt the dollar or boost it, just over half of those who responded predicted a weakening in the greenback, while a third expected it to strengthen.AdvertisementThe dollar is ending March with its fifth straight quarter of losses against a basket of currencies.Widening U.S. budget deficits are undermining the dollar despite some support from higher interest rates, said Amundi's  chief investment officer Pascal Blanque, who noted that trade tensions in 1982-84 and 2001 had caused dollar depreciation."A full-scale global trade war, with retaliation actions among trading partners, would undermine confidence, threaten the global recovery, and would push the dollar in the direction of further weakening," Blanque added.The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates this month and is seen repeating that twice more this year, and possibly three times if the jobs picture continues to improve.Fund managers who replied to a survey question on the subject were evenly divided as to whether rates would rise a total of three or four times in 2018.Paolo Zanghieri, senior economist at Generali Investments, was in the latter camp, noting the robust labour market, even if the Fed's March projections showed three moves."It would take an upgrade of projections by just one FOMC member to tilt the median to four hikes, and we expect this to happen at the June meeting, on the back of stronger readings for inflation and real activity," he said.(Additional reporting by Claire Milhench and Maria Pia Quaglia; Editing by Hugh Lawson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:51 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  Spooked by brewing trade tensions and a broad reversal in technology shares, global investors have cut their equity exposure to a four-month low this month while reducing their holdings of U.S. stocks to the lowest in nearly two years.Reuters' monthly asset allocation poll of 53 wealth managers and chief investment officers in Europe, the United States, Britain and Japan was carried out from March 12 to 27.During this period, U.S. moves to slap tariffs on steel and aluminium imports, and on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods, sent world stocks to six-week lows.Investors have been worried that tit-for-tat retaliatory measures from China and a deterioration in world trade could hinder economic global, prompting a sharp risk-off move in markets.Advertisement"Trade tariffs ... while they should not end up in a full-blown trade war, risk weighing on market sentiment just when liquidity is diminishing and financial conditions are expected to tighten," said Pascal Blanque, chief investment officer at Amundi.AdvertisementIn the poll, investors cut their equity holdings by almost 1 percentage point to 48.1 percent of global balanced portfolios -- the lowest level since November -- while raising bond holdings by 2.3 percentage points to 39.3 percent.Within equity portfolios, managers cut their U.S. exposure to 38 percent, the lowest since April 2016.U.S. stocks look set to end the month down 4 percent, hammered by trade war fears and worries about tighter regulation for the tech sector after a furore over the use of Facebook data by political consultants.Peter Lowman, chief investment officer at Investment Quorum, said it had been a testing time for equity investors, and articulated the threat to the U.S. economy and consumer of a trade war."U.S. companies operating in China would be affected whether it is Apple or a U.S. car manufacturer," he said, adding that Chinese exports to the United States improved the American standard of living through the provision of cheaper goods.FALLOUT FEARSA 62 percent majority of poll participants who answered a question on the outlook for the U.S. dollar in the event of a full scale trade war said that it would weaken.The dollar hit a five-week low against a basket of six other major currencies in March.Raphael Gallardo, a strategist at Natixis Asset Management, said that while first-round effects, such as a reduction in the U.S. trade deficit, might initially strengthen the dollar, ultimately it would weaken due to retaliation by U.S. trading partners.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."More importantly, the trade war triggered by tariffs would end up weakening further the prospective rate of return on investment in the U.S.," he said.AdvertisementThe outlook for the dollar is complicated by the fact that the U.S. Federal Reserve is raising rates, targeting at least two more hikes for 2018 after a 25 basis points hike in March.A slim 56 percent majority of poll participants who answered a question on this topic expected three rate hikes this year, but a third opted for four, saying the Fed was behind the curve.Several noted it would take just one FOMC member to upgrade their expectations to tilt the Fed's median projection from three to four hikes for the year."The 2018 dot plot is more hawkish than the median three hikes imply," said Jan Bopp, an investment strategist at J Safra Sarasin. "The 2018 call was a close one, and the move up in 2019 and beyond was clearly a reflection of the strengthening of the economic outlook."GROWTH CATALYSTSThere was less consensus over the outlook for the euro zone economy, with just 51 percent of poll participants who answered a question on this saying growth had not yet peaked in the current cycle."While inflation expectations have peaked short-term and German industrial activity has slowed, cheap financing will continue to be a driver as well as the robust global trade environment," said Jean Medecin, a member of the investment committee at Carmignac. Euro zone businesses rounded off the first quarter of 2018 with their slowest growth in over a year and economic sentiment data has underwhelmed.European equities look set to end the month down around 2.3 percent.In the poll, investors cut their euro zone equity holdings slightly to 19.9 percent, but while some investors said growth might be slowing, with the stronger euro hampering export growth, it would not fall sharply."Growth catalysts like low real interest rates are still very much with us, so growth levels could remain above trend near term," said Peter van der Welle, a strategist at Robeco.Advertisement(Reporting by Claire Milhench; additional reporting by Maria Pia Quaglia and Hari Kishan; Editing by Hugh Lawson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:03 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  As Mark Zuckerberg prepares to testify before Congress over Facebook's privacy fiasco, public-relations experts who have prepped CEOs before have plenty of advice on handling the hot seat.Among them: Appear sympathetic and be ready for a beating. Take responsibility. Don't feign ignorance. And keep in mind that this is more political theater than public policy. The so-called "optics" —how things look— are as important as what you say.The stakes are high: CEOs testifying in Washington have lost jobs, faced perjury investigations and otherwise endured public humiliation. It's not comfortable for anyone in a position of power to essentially kowtow to Congress in a televised setting."It's an intense, grinding experience, draining psychologically and physically," said Ronn Torossian, founder and CEO of the PR agency 5WPR.AdvertisementAs with others who have coached CEOs in the past, he couldn't name former clients because of confidentiality agreements. Torossian said appearing before Congress is "a very humbling experience for powerful people." But Zuckerberg can learn from those who have gone before him.Advertisement___PREPARE, PREPARE, PREPAREZuckerberg should spend days, if not weeks, familiarizing himself with the layout of the hearing room and with specific members of Congress, including the toughest questions they are likely to ask. The Facebook CEO has to appear willing to answer questions.When then-BP chief Tony Hayward testified before Congress about the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010, he denied involvement or knowledge of the problem in many cases. That's a classic response designed to avoid legal trouble, but it didn't make him sympathetic to viewers. Hayward lost his job about a month later."He was clearly very well trained from lawyers, but it didn't rest well with the American public," said Richard Levick, founder and CEO of public-relations firm Levick. He said Zuckerberg needs advice from lobbyists and communications professionals, too.Helio Fred Garcia, who as president of Logos Consulting Group has prepped unnamed banking, pharmaceutical and other executives, said a CEO client of his went through a mock hearing in which someone said very harsh things to rattle him. He was shown video of his expression to make sure he wouldn't replicate it in front of the Senate. The verdict? "He kept his job, so it went fine," Garcia said.___ARRIVE MODESTLYOne of the most infamous missteps happened before the CEOs even got in the door. In 2008, CEOs of the three big automakers flew private jets to Washington to ask Congress for federal bailout money. A public relations fiasco ensued.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.When the executives went back to Capitol Hill two weeks later for a second round of hearings, they traveled by car.___TAKE YOUR LUMPSCEOs may be used to getting their own way, but they aren't in control during hearings. Garcia said that can cause them "a great deal of distress."Zuckerberg has to understand he's a target and swallow his pride. His job isn't to try to persuade the senators of anything, but to let senators express their anger.Advertisement"This isn't an educational forum," Garcia said. "It's a highly ritualized piece of theater."___DON'T FEIGN IGNORANCEWhen Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf appeared before the Senate Banking Committee in 2016 on the bank's creation of unauthorized accounts, he feigned ignorance about some details. He was roasted by senators for not acknowledging the extent of the problem and his responsibility of it. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and other senators called for his firing; he stepped down weeks later.It's crucial to take responsibility and come across as straightforward, said John Hellerman, founder of PR firm Hellerman Communications.At the same time, Zuckerberg can't get too bogged down in technical explanations, Garcia said. A hearing puts the spotlight on leadership and accountability, not technical details. Garcia said Zuckerberg has to "speak in leadership terms: 'This was a massive failure and I apologize.'"___SPIN IT FORWARDZuckerberg isn't likely to lose his job over this, but a bad congressional appearance can have other consequences — mainly, the controversy staying in the news.So his goal will be to acknowledge anger and try to move on. He has to accept that regulation is likely, "so this is his chance to help shape and guide what that regulation might look like," Hellerman said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 10:33 A.M. E.D.T.
The widow of the gunman who slaughtered 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was acquitted Friday of helping to plot the attack and lying to the FBI afterward — a rare and stinging defeat for the U.S. government in a terrorism case.Noor Salman, 31, sobbed upon hearing the jury's verdict of not guilty of obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization, charges that could have brought a life sentence. Her family gasped each time the words "not guilty" were pronounced.On the other side of the Orlando courtroom, the families of the victims of the June 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting sat stone-faced and silent.Within hours, Salman was released from jail after 14 months and got into a waiting car without answering questions.Advertisement"Noor is so grateful. Her belief in the process was shown. She wants to get back to her son," her attorney Linda Moreno said. Family spokeswoman Susan Clary said Salman's family "always thought that Noor was the first victim" of her husband, Omar Mateen.AdvertisementThe verdict reverberated through Orlando and legal circles beyond."The government rarely, rarely loses these kinds of cases. It's got every single factor on its side," said David Oscar Markus, a Miami attorney who routinely tries federal cases. "It's a pretty impressive win for the defense and a devastating loss for the government."Mateen, the American-born son of Afghan immigrants, was killed by police after opening fire in the name of the Islamic State group.Relying heavily on an alleged confession from Salman, federal prosecutors charged that she and Mateen had scouted out potential targets together — including Disney World's shopping and entertainment complex — and that she gave him the "green light to commit terrorism."But the defense portrayed her as an easily manipulated woman with a low IQ and argued that she signed a false confession because she was tired after a long interrogation and feared losing her young son.In a blow to the government's case, the FBI itself found that receipts and cellphone signals showed the couple were nowhere near the Pulse on the day Salman said they were.Also, prosecutors introduced no online posts, texts or any other evidence that Salman supported ISIS, and were hard-pressed to counter the defense's portrayal of her as a simple, sweet mother who loves her 5-year-old son, romance novels and the cartoon character Hello Kitty.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After the verdict, prosecutors said they were disappointed and took no questions.The jurors said little as they left court."Noor Salman should never have been on trial," said Ahmed Bedier, a civil rights advocate and the president of United Voices of America. "Let this verdict serve as a message to law enforcement and prosecutors who railroad and persecute innocent people on little evidence, the people of this great nation will not allow it."AdvertisementSome veteran attorneys said the government made a mistake in not recording the alleged confession. The jury was given only a written statement."The FBI needs to start recording their statements. It's a terrible practice. But it's the FBI's policy not to record," Markus said. "Even local police agencies now record statements and are required to do so. Jurors in today's age want to hear the recording, they want to see the evidence."Miami defense attorney David Weinstein said: "As much as we don't want to admit it, this is the age of the cellphone. It's ingrained in the minds of jurors, if it's not recorded, it didn't happen."Christine Leinonen, an attorney and former state trooper whose only son was killed in the nightclub massacre, told The Orlando Sentinel she was disappointed but not shocked by the verdict. She said Salman's alleged confession was "clearly coerced" and added: "Cops screw up their own cases."Prosecutors had also accused Salman of falsely claiming that her husband didn't use the internet in their home, that he had deactivated his Facebook account years earlier, that he had one gun when he had three, and that he wasn't radicalized.But the defense said that Salman, who was born in California to Palestinian parents, was abused and cheated on by her husband and that he concealed much of his life from her. Her attorneys argued there was no way she knew her husband would attack the nightclub because even he didn't know it until moments before.According to prosecutors, Mateen intended to attack Disney World's shopping and entertainment complex by hiding a gun in a stroller but became spooked by police and chose a new target.___Lush reported from St. Petersburg, Florida.___This story has been corrected to show that Bedier is with United Voices of America.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:24 P.M. E.D.T.
The widow of the gunman who slaughtered 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was acquitted Friday of helping to plot the attack and lying to the FBI afterward — a rare and stinging defeat for the U.S. government in a terrorism case.Noor Salman, 31, sobbed upon hearing the jury's verdict of not guilty of obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization, charges that could have brought a life sentence. Her family gasped each time the words "not guilty" were pronounced.On the other side of the Orlando courtroom, the families of the victims of the June 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting sat stone-faced and silent.Within hours, Salman was released from jail after 14 months and got into a waiting car without answering questions.Advertisement"Noor is so grateful. Her belief in the process was shown. She wants to get back to her son," her attorney Linda Moreno said. Family spokeswoman Susan Clary said Salman's family "always thought that Noor was the first victim" of her husband, Omar Mateen.AdvertisementThe verdict reverberated through Orlando and legal circles beyond."The government rarely, rarely loses these kinds of cases. It's got every single factor on its side," said David Oscar Markus, a Miami attorney who routinely tries federal cases. "It's a pretty impressive win for the defense and a devastating loss for the government."Mateen, the American-born son of Afghan immigrants, was killed by police after opening fire in the name of the Islamic State group.Relying heavily on an alleged confession from Salman, federal prosecutors charged that she and Mateen had scouted out potential targets together — including Disney World's shopping and entertainment complex — and that she gave him the "green light to commit terrorism."But the defense portrayed her as an easily manipulated woman with a low IQ and argued that she signed a false confession because she was tired after a long interrogation and feared losing her young son.In a blow to the government's case, the FBI itself found that receipts and cellphone signals showed the couple were nowhere near the Pulse on the day Salman said they were.Also, prosecutors introduced no online posts, texts or any other evidence that Salman supported ISIS, and were hard-pressed to counter the defense's portrayal of her as a simple, sweet mother who loves her 5-year-old son, romance novels and the cartoon character Hello Kitty.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After the verdict, prosecutors said they were disappointed and took no questions.The jurors said little as they left court."Noor Salman should never have been on trial," said Ahmed Bedier, a civil rights advocate and the president of United Voices of America. "Let this verdict serve as a message to law enforcement and prosecutors who railroad and persecute innocent people on little evidence, the people of this great nation will not allow it."AdvertisementSome veteran attorneys said the government made a mistake in not recording the alleged confession. The jury was given only a written statement."The FBI needs to start recording their statements. It's a terrible practice. But it's the FBI's policy not to record," Markus said. "Even local police agencies now record statements and are required to do so. Jurors in today's age want to hear the recording, they want to see the evidence."Miami defense attorney David Weinstein said: "As much as we don't want to admit it, this is the age of the cellphone. It's ingrained in the minds of jurors, if it's not recorded, it didn't happen."Christine Leinonen, an attorney and former state trooper whose only son was killed in the nightclub massacre, told The Orlando Sentinel she was disappointed but not shocked by the verdict. She said Salman's alleged confession was "clearly coerced" and added: "Cops screw up their own cases."Prosecutors had also accused Salman of falsely claiming that her husband didn't use the internet in their home, that he had deactivated his Facebook account years earlier, that he had one gun when he had three, and that he wasn't radicalized.But the defense said that Salman, who was born in California to Palestinian parents, was abused and cheated on by her husband and that he concealed much of his life from her. Her attorneys argued there was no way she knew her husband would attack the nightclub because even he didn't know it until moments before.According to prosecutors, Mateen intended to attack Disney World's shopping and entertainment complex by hiding a gun in a stroller but became spooked by police and chose a new target.___Lush reported from St. Petersburg, Florida.___This story has been corrected to show that Bedier is with United Voices of America.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 30, 2018

Did you stay up to date this week? To take the quiz, click on an answer, and the correct response will be revealed after you choose.


Last week, the question about the death of Sudan, the last male northern white rhinoceros, had the highest share of correct answers, with 93 percent. The question about Major League Baseball’s plans to play in London was the toughest; only 34 percent responded correctly. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The U.S. joined a campaign by two dozen countries on Monday to retaliate for the poisoning of a Russian former spy in Britain.As part of that effort, President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russian officials from the U.S. as well as the closing of the Russian Consulate in which city?BostonMiamiSan FranciscoSeattleCrowds gathered last Saturday in cities across the U.S. and around the world to join student activists in protests against gun violence.After a mass shooting at a high school in Florida in February, the students hoped to elevate gun control as a key issue for the midterm elections.The title of the event encouraged participants to march for what?Our BeliefsOur FutureOur LivesOur RightsOur VotesNorth Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, made a surprise trip to China this week to meet with President Xi Jinping, the first known time that Mr. Kim traveled outside North Korea since taking power in 2011.The trip was reported by the state news media in China and North Korea only after Mr. Kim had left, but his presence in Beijing had been rumored after what telltale sign?The Chinese Air Force put on a special display Fanfare was heard outside the National People’s CongressMr. Xi announced a national holiday A bulletproof train arrived at Beijing’s central train stationThe U.S. Commerce Department announced on Monday that the 2020 census would include a question asking about what?Citizenship statusPhysical disabilitiesSexual preferenceSocial media useChristopher Wylie, above, testified before British lawmakers this week. For which organization did he work until 2014?Cambridge AnalyticaFacebookF.B.I.UberA fire in the Siberian city of Kemerovo killed at least 64 people on Sunday, many of them children. Where did the fire occur? In an apartment blockIn a schoolIn a shopping mallIn a theme parkA TV interview with the pornographic film actress Stephanie Clifford about her alleged affair with Donald  Trump drew 22 million viewers on Sunday night. The interview appeared on which news program? “20/20”“60 Minutes”“Dateline”“Inside Edition”Municipal employees were able to use computers again on Tuesday after a sustained cyberattack against which American city?AtlantaCharlotte, N.C.MinneapolisPittsburghWhich dating app announced this week that it would change its software to encourage millions of its users to get frequent H.I.V. tests? BumbleGrindrHappnTinderThe sitcom “Roseanne” returned to ABC this week after a 21-year absence.The show got off to an enormously strong ratings start. About how many viewers watched on Tuesday?8 million18 million28 million38 millionThere was a cheating scandal in the world of cricket this week, with the revelation of a plan to tamper with a ball during an international series of matches.The captain of the national team for which country acknowledged concocting the plan?AustraliaEnglandIndiaSouth AfricaAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 11:21 A.M. E.D.T.
RADCLIFF, Ky. —  Kentucky's governor is praising the quick response to a man who allegedly killed his wife and then was fatally shot by officers outside his son's high school.Authorities said the area's schools were locked down just eight minutes after law enforcement learned of a possible homicide, and officers then fatally shot the man about five minutes after encountering him in the school's parking lot. It was all over in about 20 minutes.The high school student who lost both his parents while he was in class on Wednesday will receive trauma counseling, Hardin County Schools Superintendent Teresa Morgan said. "He is safe at this time and he is now with extended family," Morgan said.Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin praised police via Twitter on Wednesday evening."Suspect was attempting to enter a high school in Hardin County, KY," the tweet said. "Area schools were temporarily locked down as a safety precaution, but the prompt response by law enforcement officers ensured that no harm came to any students or teachers."AdvertisementKentucky State Police spokesman Jeff Gregory told news outlets that Jesse Kilgus, 51, killed Ruth Marie Kilgus, 46, in their home before driving to John Hardin High School. Officers learned that he intended to pick up his son, and contacted Hardin County Schools to lock down the high school as well as a nearby middle school and elementary school.AdvertisementGregory said law enforcement officers found Kilgus in his van near the high school building at 12:53 p.m. Wednesday and spoke with him for about five minutes, trying to coax him out. Kilgus then showed a weapon, and seven officers from three departments fired shots at him, Gregory said. He was pronounced dead at the scene.School district officials and police officers said at a news conference Wednesday that their planning for a coordinated response to school shootings prepared them well."We did everything right, as far I'm concerned," Gregory said of the agencies involved. "He didn't get into the school. The kid didn't come out of the school. We got there quickly. They went into lockdown. ... It's unfortunate how it turned out, but we believe through practice and communication, some great things happened today as well."Two busloads of Butler County Middle School students were approaching the school for a band performance assessment when a wave of police cars went past them into the school parking lot.At the time, "we said we hope it wasn't a school shooting," said Butler County Middle School band teacher Jordan Evans.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The buses had been heading for the back of the school, where Kilgus was shot, but quickly diverted to the front, where administrators whisked them inside and locked them down in a front office, ordering them to stay low and away from windows."I think that's when we realized it was more serious than we were thinking," said Evans, who told his students not to use their cell phones, to prevent showing any lights. The band students "were tore up. They didn't know if it was inside the school or outside the school.""I was kind of shook up myself. I was thinking all the things the kids were thinking. 'Is it inside the school? Am I going to get home?" Evans said. "Am I going to get to see my wife?' But shortly thereafter, they came back and said it was isolated outside the school and not to be worried."AdvertisementAfter the active threat was ruled out, students were allowed to call or text their parents, and they were moved into an auditorium. But the event was canceled; they never got to perform.Neighbors described Jesse Kilgus as a good person who had showed warning signs about turning violent and didn't get the help he needed. The Elizabethtown News Enterprise reported that Kilgus described himself as "hurting and going crazy" in a March 13 Facebook post."The sad thing about the system is that unless I show up with a gun or bomb, no one takes it seriously," Lester Hack told the paper.Morgan said counselors would also be available for staff and students at the high school on Thursday.Communities across America are re-evaluating school security following the Feb. 14 killings of 17 people inside a school in Parkland, Florida. In Kentucky, a shooting in January at Marshall County High School killed two students and injured more than a dozen others.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:24 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW ORLEANS —  Nine years after a judge began supervising a multitude of federal lawsuits that claim homes were damaged by Chinese drywall, he says it's time to return thousands of remaining cases for trial in the courts where they were filed.The panel that put Judge Eldon Fallon in charge in 2009 said the first 1,700 would return to Florida's federal courts if no objections are filed by Thursday. At least three objection notices were filed Thursday by attorneys for about 750 clients. Objectors' briefs must be filed by April 12, with responses are due May 3, according to the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation's electronic docket.Fallon ruled in 2010 that Chinese-made drywall released sulfur fumes into homes, sickening occupants, corroding metals in wiring, plumbing, appliances and electronics, and stinking up the houses. In 2013, he approved settlements involving thousands of homes and other buildings with drywall from German-owned Knauf Plasterboard Tianjin Co.Remaining cases involve a second company, Taishan Gypsum Co. Ltd., which didn't show up in court until Fallon found it in contempt and forbade any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to do business in this country until it participated in court proceedings.AdvertisementFallon told the panel he wants to transfer all remaining Chinese drywall cases that were sent to him.AdvertisementAnn Saucer of the Baron & Budd law firm, which joined two others in an objection for 418 clients, said, "We're sort of confused as to why only these particular claims are being transferred back for trial."Any requests to transfer are unusual. Supervising judges resolve the great majority of cases, mostly through settlements, according to a 2014 Louisiana Law Review article by Edward F. Sherman of Tulane University."The gold standard, I think, is to get everybody to a point where you can get global peace for everybody," said Louisiana State University law Professor Margaret Thomas.But when that doesn't happen the cases must go to trial in the states where the suits were filed.About 5,000 cases remain from eight states: Florida, Virginia, Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, North Carolina and California, attorney Arnold Levin, spokesman for the Plaintiffs Steering Committee in this case, said Thursday.Fallon said in a March 12 order and request that he's dealt with all pretrial motions raising common questions, held "bellwether trials" to lead the way and has approved a formula for calculating property damages.He wrote that his court "has worked diligently for the past nine years," producing abundant evidence and judicial opinions to enable the original courts and the parties in the lawsuits to steer any unresolved cases "to a fair and just conclusion."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.His order and request was accompanied by a 118-page list identifying 1,734 cases comprising one Florida class action. There could be more than 1,000 additional cases in a separate group that includes Florida defendants, Levin said.Plaintiffs whose cases would be transferred back include Jason and Heather Ancer of Land O Lakes, Florida. Jason Ancer said an inspector who claimed to be a Chinese drywall expert told them their house was fine, but their air conditioner began failing within months after they moved in. Their drywall turned out to have been made by Taishan. Five months after moving in, Heather Ancer became pregnant.AdvertisementThe couple left the house, stopped making payments on it and eventually declared bankruptcy."We don't know what to think," said Jason Ancer. "All I know is it seems that definitely we will not have any kind of recourse."He said that in Facebook groups of people affected by Taishan's drywall, people are asking how are individual trials going to do any good if the combined cases can't go forward.That isn't so, Levin said."We as plaintiffs support what Judge Fallon has done," he said. "It's nine years, and the Chinese have tried every tactic to see to it that the people we represent either die or otherwise have their properties disposed of ... just trying to frustrate the process."Levin said the steering committee's attorneys are ready to work with lawyers representing the remaining defendants."Ultimately, the only thing that leads a recalcitrant defendant to settle is a big verdict," he said.Taishan and its subsidiaries and affiliates do a lot of business in the United States. One of them sells solar panels to Walmart and another buying timber in Oregon, he said. Levin said those companies' assets in this country can be attached if Taishan ignores court orders to pay damages, Levin said.Once the cases return to their originating courts, he said, "The Chinese will be all over America trying cases."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.