By SHEERA FRENKELJAN. 30, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Want to get rich quick through Bitcoins or other virtual currencies? Youll have to do it without Facebook.The social network said Tuesday that it would ban all ads for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, in order to stop promotions that it sees as frequently associated with misleading or deceptive promotional practices.Under Facebooks new policy, no ads from well-known digital currency exchanges or for initial coin offerings will be allowed. Among those who will be affected is James Altucher, a self-described crypto genius whose viral ads have become a talking point in how the cryptocurrency boom has led to scams and wild price fluctuations.Facebooks move followed questions about whether it has done enough to protect its site from bad actors. The company has been trying to clamp down on misinformation and false news after admitting last year that Russian agents had used it to spread divisive and polarizing messages.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The world of cryptocurrencies, which people have flooded into as prices soared in recent months, has also increasingly raised fears that parts of the market are dogged by scams. The Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday that it had halted what may have been a fraudulent initial coin offering that asked people to fund what was supposed to be the worlds first decentralized bank.Rob Leathern, a Facebook product management director, announced the ban on cryptocurrency ads in a blog post. He said the ban was intentionally broad, as Facebook seeks to better detect deceptive and misleading advertising practices.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, has recently expressed an interest in digital currencies. In a Facebook post this month, he wrote that he was studying how to introduce cryptocurrency to his company, adding that he thought it would take power from centralized systems and put it back into peoples hands.Follow Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @sheeraf.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook, Citing Deception,  Bans Cryptocurrency Ads.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PETER EAVISFEB. 20, 2018
Many months after it became clear that Russians exploited Facebook to interfere in the 2016 presidential election, the reach and impact of Russias activities on the social network are still not fully known.The indictment announced on Friday in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, charged 13 Russians and does not accuse Facebook or Instagram of any wrongdoing. But the names of those two networks appear 41 times in the indictment.The dribble of information about Russian actors use of Facebook, as well as confusing messages coming from the company, has raised even more questions. Heres a look at what we know and what other information Facebook might be able to provide.So far, Facebook executives have implied that the influence campaign was minor in the scheme of things.AdvertisementThe company has released numbers that suggest the Russians reached a large number of people. In testimony to Congress last year, Colin Stretch, Facebooks general counsel, said that roughly 126 million people may have been served content from a Facebook page associated with the Internet Research Agency, the notorious Russian troll factory, over a two-year period.AdvertisementBut Mr. Stretch added that this content was a smidgen of the total content available across Facebook:This equals about four-thousandths of 1 percent (0.004 percent) of content in News Feed, or approximately one out of 23,000 pieces of content.And on Friday, Rob Goldman, Facebooks vice president for ads, noted that more than half of the Russian Facebook ads (56 percent) were served after the 2016 election.
            The majority of the Russian ad spend happened AFTER the election. We shared that fact, but very few outlets have covered it because it doesnt align with the main media narrative of Tump and the election. https://t.co/2dL8Kh0hof Quoting tiny fractions suggests content on Facebook gets drowned out in a torrent of information. But the companys whole business model is based on giving ads and posts prominence in the feeds of well-targeted users.Questions for Facebook:Has Facebook performed any analyses that looks at smaller groups of people?If so, can Facebook share them?And how did the ads perform before and after the election?Mr. Muellers latest indictment says that, after the middle of 2016, Russians often talked about targeting purple states, or those in which the number of Republican and Democratic voters are close. The indictment also describes the Russians as focused on Florida, which Mr. Trump ended up winning.On or about August 4, 2016, Defendants and their co-conspirators created and purchased Facebook advertisements for the Florida Goes Trump rally. The advertisements reached over 59,000 Facebook users in Florida, and over 8,300 Facebook users responded to the advertisements by clicking on it.Others have asserted in the past that Russia did not appear to focus its social media efforts on swing states. As Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina and chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, noted last year:What you havent heard is that almost five times more ads were targeted at Maryland than Wisconsin. Maryland, which was targeted by 262 ads in comparison to Wisconsins 55, wasnt up for grabs; it was a state the Democratic candidate carried by 26 percent.Questions for Facebook: Do the companys records show that Russia-backed ads and posts reached a higher number of people in certain states or regions of the United States?If so, how responsive were Facebook users in those targeted regions to the Russian posts and ads?Jonathan Albright, research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia, has done revealing work on Facebooks Russia-linked pages that is more detailed than anything the company has made public. Mr. Albrights data, obtained using CrowdTangle, an analytics tool owned by Facebook, shows the speed with which the Russia-backed groups grew.Blacktivist, a Russia-linked group whose often inflammatory content set it apart from legitimate groups championing African-American rights, had 14,000 followers at the end of 2015. By the time its Facebook page was shut down last year, it had 390,000, according to Mr. Albrights data — a hugely successful ramp up that took Blacktivists total followers above that for Black Lives Matter. Other Russian-created groups, like Heart of Texas, also showed huge increases in followers.Questions for Facebook:How exactly were these groups able to scoop up so many members so quickly?Did the speed of the increases wave any red flags internally at Facebook?To what extent did Facebooks ad targeting tools, which allow advertisers to reach specific groups of people, enable Russia to put incendiary posts in the feeds of certain groups?And one from Mr. Albright: What were the follower totals and other data for any private Facebook pages that were backed by the Russians?It may well be the case that Russian disinformation did not swing the election for Mr. Trump. But it may have had far more of an impact than the public knows. And Facebook is almost certainly sitting on data that could deepen the nations understanding of what went on.I cant imagine what it would it look like if we had all the data, Mr. Albright said.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Kevin Roose
 

THE SHIFT
FEB. 19, 2018
On most days, Facebook doesnt have much in common with President Trump. But at the moment, both are in the damage-control business, as they try to get out from under the cloud of suspicion related to Russias meddling in the 2016 election.Their goals collided in awkward fashion over the weekend when Rob Goldman, Facebooks vice president of advertising, posted a series of messages on Twitter that were meant to clear up misconceptions about Facebooks role in the election. Instead, he plunged the company deeper into controversy.Most of the coverage of Russian meddling involves their attempt to effect the outcome of the 2016 US election, Mr. Goldman tweeted. I have seen all of the Russian ads and I can say very definitively that swaying the election was *NOT* the main goal.
            Most of the coverage of Russian meddling involves their attempt to effect the outcome of the 2016 US election. I have seen all of the Russian ads and I can say very definitively that swaying the election was *NOT* the main goal.        He continued: The majority of the Russian ad spend happened AFTER the election. We shared that fact, but very few outlets have covered it because it doesnt align with the main media narrative of Tump [sic] and the election.Mr. Goldman was tweeting only for himself, but his comments, which drew praise from other Facebook executives on Twitter, were an unusually candid statement that flouted Facebooks well-sculpted messaging strategy, which has generally been to stay as far away from partisan debates as possible. The tweets arrived soon after the blockbuster indictment of Russian nationals by the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, and they were noticed by right-wing partisans, who saw them as supporting evidence for Mr. Trumps no collusion claims. Soon, Mr. Trump himself had retweeted them approvingly.AdvertisementMr. Goldman eventually walked back some of his statements, but it was too late. Mr. Goldman had just given Mr. Trump something that looked like a Facebook-stamped exoneration.AdvertisementNow, Facebook is in the uncomfortable position of reining in an off-message executive, while clarifying that it didnt mean to bolster the presidents position.The special counsel has issued its indictments, and nothing we found contradicts their conclusions, Joel Kaplan, Facebooks vice president of global policy, said in a statement. Any suggestion otherwise is wrong.Mr. Goldman did not respond to requests for comment, and the company declined to make him available for an interview.It is Facebooks right to defend itself, of course. The company has faced a raft of accusations of wrongdoing, some of which have indeed been overblown. Facebook was not the only social network manipulated by Russias Internet Research Agency, the company at the heart of Mr. Muellers indictment. And other companies, such as Twitter and YouTube, certainly share the blame for fostering a media ecosystem in which false news and propaganda can flourish.But Mr. Goldmans tweetstorm was unintentionally revealing. It showed that, years after hostile foreign actors first began using Facebook to wage an information war against the American public, some high-ranking officials within the company still dont understand just how central Facebook was to Russias misinformation campaign, and how consequential the companys mistakes have been. (Last year, in a tweet that fewer people saw, Andrew Bosworth, another Facebook vice president, claimed that the effects of Russian interference and fake news in 2016 were marginal, even in a close election.)In real-world terms, a part of Facebook still sees itself as the bank that got robbed, rather than the architect who designed a bank with no safes, and no alarms or locks on the doors, and then acted surprised when burglars struck.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Even before Mr. Goldmans tweets were blasted along to Mr. Trumps 48 million followers, they lacked crucial context about what exactly Mr. Muellers investigation had found. He made sweeping pronouncements about the misuse of Facebooks advertising products while neglecting to mention that most of Russias exploitation took the form of nonadvertising posts. He claimed that swinging the election in Mr. Trumps favor was not a primary goal of Russias Facebook campaign, when Mr. Muellers indictment had just concluded that it was. He portrayed Facebook as having been eager to promote its findings on the Russia investigation, when in fact the company has made disclosures only under pressure from regulators, and has deliberately hidden data about Russias interference from outside researchers.AdvertisementSome of Mr. Goldmans claims may have been narrowly true, but they were a prime example of misdirection. Why is educating citizens about digital literacy the solution to misinformation, as Mr. Goldman suggested, rather than fixing the tech platforms that make misinformation hard to distinguish from truth? Why should it reassure us that most of Russias Facebook advertising was purchased after the election, rather than telling us that Facebook continued to drop the ball even after it knew it had a Russia problem?More than anything, the details contained in the indictment make clear how vulnerable Facebook still is to a hostile actor. None of the safeguards it has announced so far — such as providing more transparency about political ads, or using snail-mail postcards to verify the identities of certain political advertisers — would stop a sophisticated and well-funded foreign influence operation. And many of the tactics the Internet Research Agency used in 2016 — including posing as American citizens to create large partisan Facebook pages and organizing offline rallies with the help of American co-conspirators — would be just as effective today.In a recent cover story, Wired detailed the soul-searching journey that Facebooks executives have undertaken since the 2016 election. First, they denied that theyd done anything wrong. Then, after the scope of Russias misinformation campaign became clear, they circled the wagons to protect the companys reputation and appease its critics. Only recently have certain executives, like Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, come to appreciate the scale and scope of Facebooks errors, and publicly accept responsibility for them.We may never get answers about what Facebook knew of the Russian interference campaign in 2016, and why it didnt act more forcefully to stop it. (Trust me, Ive tried.) But its deeply troubling that eight months before the 2018 midterms, as malicious forces continue to use social media to sow discord and meddle in elections all over the world, some at Facebook seem more interested in defending themselves from criticism than owning their mistakes, fixing their platforms problems and protecting our democracy.Email Kevin Roose at kevin.roose@nytimes.com, or follow him on Facebook at facebook.com/kevinroose and on Twitter: @kevinroose.A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: On Russian Meddling, Some Facebook Leaders Are in Denial.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byRob Goldman, Facebook vice president for ads, tweeted about Russias disinformation effort. President Trump then cited him. We fact-checked Mr. Goldman.By Sheera FrenkelRob Goldman, vice president for ads at Facebook, posted an eight-part thread on Twitter late Friday about his companys role in Russian disinformation — and quickly caused a firestorm. In his messages, Mr. Goldman discussed the indictment of 13 Russians and three companies accused of carrying out a scheme to subvert the 2016 election. Facebook was frequently mentioned in the indictment as the main tech tool that the Russians had used to tilt the election in favor of Donald J. Trump.Mr. Goldman defended Facebook in his tweets, saying that the Russian-bought ads on the social network were not primarily aimed at swaying the vote result. His posts went viral on Saturday when President Trump cited them as proof that Russias disinformation campaign was about something other than giving him an election victory.We fact-checked Mr. Goldmans eight tweets. Heres what we found.When the Russians use of Facebook to influence the 2016 election became public last year, the company said it was sharing the Russian-bought ads with Congress and Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel leading the investigation. But Facebook did not directly share the ads with the American people. Instead, the House Intelligence Committee released examples of the ads ahead of congressional hearings last November. The grand jury indictment secured by Mr. Mueller asserts that the goal of Russian operatives was to influence the 2016 election, particularly by criticizing Hillary Clinton and supporting Mr. Trump and Bernie Sanders, Mrs. Clintons chief rival for the Democratic nomination.The Russians engaged in operations primarily intended to communicate derogatory information about Hillary Clinton, to denigrate other candidates such as Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, and to support Bernie Sanders and then-candidate Donald Trump, the indictment said. Mr. Goldman later wrote in another tweet that the Russian campaign was certainly in favor of Trump. According to figures published by Facebook last October, 44 percent of the Russian-bought ads were displayed before the 2016 election, while 56 percent were shown afterward. Mr. Goldman asserted that those figures were not published by the mainstream media — however, many mainstream news outlets did print those numbers, including CNN, Reuters and The Wall Street Journal. The indictment does show that Russian operatives used social media — particularly Facebook — to try to sow division among Americans. But to reiterate, the indictment said that the Russians goal was to sway the 2016 election toward a particular outcome. That aim was pursued not just through ads, which Mr. Goldman focuses on, but through Facebook pages, groups and events. The protests in Houston in May 2016 were among many rallies organized by Russian operatives through Facebook. While the Houston protest was anti-Islamic, as Mr. Goldman said, he failed to note that the goal in promoting the demonstration was to link Mrs. Clintons campaign with a pro-Islamic message. According to the indictment secured by Mr. Mueller, there were many other examples of Russian operatives using Facebook and Instagram to organize pro-Trump rallies. At one protest, the Russian operatives paid for a cage to be built, in which an actress dressed as Mrs. Clinton posed in a prison uniform.American intelligence officials have said that Russia has continued to target the American public and that it is already meddling in the 2018 midterm elections. The New York Times also reported this month on an attempt by a shadowy Russian figure to sell stolen American cyberweapons, as well as compromising material on President Trump, to the United States. While Finland, Sweden and the Netherlands have all made efforts to teach digital literacy, those countries are still grappling with how to handle misinformation. A recent survey in Finland found that 67 percent of respondents think fake news affects Finns perceptions on issues a lot or to an extreme degree. Officials in Sweden and the Netherlands have also recently warned that fake news poses a threat to their governments.After initially dismissing concerns that it influenced the 2016 election, Facebook has announced a series of moves to prevent its future misuse. One of those steps includes verifying political advertisers through a system that combines automated and human fact checkers. The company has also said it plans to use postcards sent by regular mail to verify the identities of American political advertisers. Whether these new measures will be effective is unclear. Sheera Frenkel covers cybersecurity from San Francisco. Previously, she spent over a decade in the Middle East as a foreign correspondent, reporting for BuzzFeed, NPR, The Times of London and McClatchy Newspapers.  @sheerafAdvertisementBy SHEERA FRENKEL and KATIE BENNERFEB. 17, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — In 2014, Russians working for a shadowy firm called the Internet Research Agency started gathering American followers in online groups focused on issues like religion and immigration. Around mid-2015, the Russians began buying digital ads to spread their messages. A year later, they tapped their followers to help organize political rallies across the United States.Their digital instrument of choice for all of these actions? Facebook and its photo-sharing site Instagram.The social network, more than any other technology tool, was singled out on Friday by the Justice Department when prosecutors charged 13 Russians and three companies for executing a scheme to subvert the 2016 election and support Donald J. Trumps presidential campaign. In a 37-page indictment, officials detailed how the Russians repeatedly turned to Facebook and Instagram, often using stolen identities to pose as Americans, to sow discord among the electorate by creating Facebook groups, distributing divisive ads and posting inflammatory images.While the indictment does not accuse Facebook of any wrongdoing, it provided the first comprehensive account from the authorities of how critical the companys platforms had been to the Russian campaign to disrupt the 2016 election. Facebook and Instagram were mentioned 41 times, while other technology that the Russians used was featured far less. Twitter was referred to nine times, YouTube once and the electronic payments company PayPal 11 times.AdvertisementIt is unprecedented for an American technology company to be so central to what the authorities say was a foreign scheme to commit election fraud in the United States. The indictment further batters Facebooks image after it has spent months grappling with questions about how it was misused and why it did not act earlier to prevent that activity.AdvertisementJonathan Albright, research director at Columbia Universitys Tow Center for Digital Journalism, said the indictment laid bare how effectively Facebook could be turned against the country.Facebook built incredibly effective tools which let Russia profile citizens here in the U.S. and figure out how to manipulate us, Mr. Albright said. Facebook, essentially, gave them everything they needed. He added that many of the tools that the Russians used, including those that allow ads to be targeted and that show how widespread an ad becomes, still pervade Facebook.Facebook, with more than two billion members on the social network alone, has long struggled with what its sites show and the kind of illicit activity it may enable, from selling unlicensed guns to broadcasting live killings. The companys business depends on people being highly engaged with what is posted on its sites, which in turn helps make it a marquee destination for advertisers.When suggestions first arose after the 2016 election that Facebook may have influenced the outcome, Mark Zuckerberg, the companys chief executive, dismissed the concerns. But by last September, Facebook had disclosed  that the Internet Research Agency had bought divisive ads on hot-button issues through the company. It later said 150 million Americans had seen the Russian propaganda on the social network and Instagram.The resulting firestorm has damaged Facebooks reputation. Company officials, along with executives from Google and YouTube, were grilled by lawmakers last fall. Facebook has since hired thousands of people to help monitor content and has worked with Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel leading the investigation into Russian election interference. It has also changed its advertising policy so that any ad that mentions a candidates name goes through a more stringent vetting process. Mr. Zuckerberg has vowed to not let Facebook be abused by bad actors.Yet Facebooks multiple mentions in Fridays indictment renew questions of why the worlds biggest social media company didnt catch the Russian activity earlier or do more to stop it. How effective the companys new efforts to reduce foreign manipulation have been is also unclear.Rob Goldman, Facebooks vice president of advertising, waded into the discussion on Friday with a series of tweets that argued that Russias goal was to sow chaos among the electorate rather than to force a certain outcome in the election. On Saturday, President Trump cited those tweets as evidence that Russias disinformation campaign was not aimed at handing him a victory.
            I have seen all of the Russian ads and I can say very definitively that swaying the election was *NOT* the main goal.Rob GoldmanVice President of Facebook Ads https://t.co/A5ft7cGJkE In Silicon Valley, where Facebook has its headquarters, some critics pilloried the company after the indictment became public.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementMuellers indictment underscores the central role of Facebook and other platforms in the Russian interference in 2016, said Roger McNamee, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who had invested early in Facebook. In its heyday, television brought the country together, giving viewers a shared set of facts and experiences. Facebook does just the opposite, enabling every user to have a unique set of facts, driving the country apart for profit.Joel Kaplan, Facebooks vice president of global policy, said in a statement that the company was grateful the government was taking action against those who abused our service and exploited the openness of our democratic process.He added that Facebook was working with the Federal Bureau of Investigation ahead of this years midterm elections to ensure that a similar manipulation campaign would not take place. We know we have more to do to prevent against future attacks, he said.Facebook has previously questioned whether law enforcement should be more involved in helping to stop the threat from nation state actors. Facebook said it worked closely with the special counsels investigation.YouTube did not respond to a request for comment, while Twitter declined to comment. PayPal said in a statement that it has worked closely with law enforcement and is intensely focused on combating and preventing the illicit use of our services.According to the indictment, the Internet Research Agency, created in 2014 in St. Petersburg and employing about 80 people, was given the job of interfering with elections and political processes.AdvertisementThe group began using American social media to achieve those aims in 2014, when it started making Facebook pages dedicated to social issues like race and religion. Over the next two years, the indictment said, the Russians stole the identities of real Americans to create fake personas and fake accounts on social media. The group then used those to populate and promote Facebook pages like United Muslims of America, Blacktivist and Secured Borders.By 2016, the indictment said, the size of some of these Russian-controlled Facebook groups had ballooned to hundreds of thousands of followers.
                Thirteen Russian nationals have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process through inflammatory social media posts and organized political rallies.            The Russians then used these groups to push various messages, including telling Americans not to vote in the 2016 election for either Mr. Trump or his opponent, Hillary Clinton. In October 2016, according to the indictment, one Russian-controlled Instagram account called Woke Blacks posted a message saying: Hatred for Trump is misleading the people and forcing Blacks to vote Killary. We cannot resort to the lesser of two devils. Then wed surely be better off without voting AT ALL.Around 2015, according to the indictment, the Russians also started purchasing ads on Facebook and other social media sites like Twitter, targeting specific communities within the United States. The group used stolen PayPal accounts to pay for the ads and to promote posts, spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on the outreach.In one ad, published to promote a Facebook event called Down with Hillary, an image of Mrs. Clinton was shown with a black X painted across her face. The text read, Hillary Clinton is the co-author of Obamas anti-police and anti-Constitutional propaganda.By mid-2016, according to the indictment, the Russians were using their fake Facebook personas to organize political rallies in the United States. That June, for example, posing as the United Muslims of America on Facebook, they promoted a rally called Support Hillary. Save American Muslims. For an August 2016 event organized through Facebook, the Russians also paid for a cage to be built that was large enough to hold an actress depicting Mrs. Clinton in a prison uniform.At every step, the Russians used Facebooks own tools to make sure their propaganda was as effective as possible. Those tools allowed them to get real-time results on which types of ad campaigns were reaching their target audience or which posts were getting the most engagement with viewers.Researchers said that those tools are still widely available and that while the company has worked to remove fake accounts and stem the flow of disinformation, it has refused to let outside researchers examine the data on how Russian actors used the platform so effectively.Theyre taking steps to fix this, but theres no easy solution, Anton Vuljaj, a Republican media strategist who has advised campaigns and media groups, said of Facebook and other social media companies. This also shows that the public needs to be more vigilant about what is real and what is not online.Sheera Frenkel reported from San Francisco, and Katie Benner from Washington.Follow Sheera Frenkel and Katie Benner on Twitter: @sheeraf and @ktbennerA version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: To Create Rifts, Russians Liked Facebook Most.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JULIA WALLACEFEB. 9, 2018
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — One of Cambodias leading opposition figures has asked a federal court in California to force Facebook to reveal details of its dealings with Hun Sen, the countrys authoritarian prime minister, arguing that he has used the platform to manipulate public opinion and strengthen his hold on power.Lawyers for the opposition politician, Sam Rainsy, filed a petition on Thursday in the Northern District of California asking that Facebook be compelled to release records of advertising purchases by Mr. Hun Sen and his allies.Mr. Sam Rainsy says Mr. Hun Sen has used Facebook to spread false news stories and death threats directed at political opponents. And he alleges that in addition to generating likes by paying for his pages to get targeted promotion, Mr. Hun Sen used so-called click farms to accumulate millions of counterfeit ones.J. Noah Hagey, a partner in the San Francisco-based law firm BraunHagey & Borden, which is representing Mr. Sam Rainsy, called the legal action an opportunity to bring unique transparency to some of the Hun regimes most insidious methods for controlling and manipulating ordinary citizens.AdvertisementFacebooks political influence around the world had come under scrutiny even before the 2016 election made social media a political issue in the United States. Critics say false news stories on Facebook can help people in power unfairly tar their critics. In Asia, Rodrigo Duterte, president of the Philippines, has used Facebook to rail against his critics and bolster support for extrajudicial killings, and others have used it to inflame tensions in places like Indonesia.AdvertisementMr. Sam Rainsys petition cites leaked emails purporting to show that at one point, Mr. Hun Sens Cambodian Peoples Party was paying Facebook $15,000 per day to promote its pages. The filing seeks records of those transactions from Facebook, and it urges the company to assess whether Mr. Hun Sen and his allies have been violating the platforms terms of use.Genevieve Grdina, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to comment directly on the petition, but she said that anyone with a public Facebook page could purchase targeted ads to reach particular audiences, and that Facebook made every possible effort to identify and eliminate click farms and fake pages.Mr. Hun Sen, who has been in power for 33 years, has overseen an extensive crackdown on dissent and opposition as national elections scheduled for July have approached. The countrys main opposition party has been dissolved, its leaders — including Mr. Sam Rainsy, who lives abroad — have been driven into exile or jailed, and independent news media outlets have been shut down.Mr. Hun Sen nearly lost Cambodias last national elections, in 2013, to the party led by Mr. Sam Rainsy, which used Facebook to appeal to young people and to skirt government restrictions on his access to traditional media. The opposition recruited a team to report and broadcast news shows entirely on Facebook, and used young social media stars to encourage attendance at antigovernment protests. (The opposition and its supporters also used the site to spread false rumors, as well as racist claims about Vietnamese living in Cambodia.)Mr. Hun Sen seemed to learn his lesson. The premier and his family assembled a team to disseminate pro-government propaganda and pour money into promoting their own pages on Facebook, which is one of the countrys most popular sources of information. Government ministries, all of which are run by Mr. Hun Sens party, were ordered to form Facebook working groups, and officials were told to start their own personal pages to interact with the public.However his likes were generated, Mr. Hun Sens Facebook page now has more of them than any other in Cambodia. On it, he intersperses policy dictates and slick propaganda videos with slices of everyday life: photographs of him in an undershirt on the beach, in bed with his wife, and hugging garment factory workers. In speeches posted to his page, he rails against his political opponents and threatens that war will ensue if he ever loses power, while also offering folksy musings and updates on his health.Duong Dara, who manages Mr. Hun Sens Facebook presence, said Mr. Sam Rainsys petition revealed a misunderstanding of the nature of advertising.You can see many billboards on the street, and people are willing to pay for more advertising, and it brings more business, Mr. Duong Dara said. This is normal and simple and everywhere. Its part of business. Its not like you are stealing or you are trying to get fake likes and fake whatever.AdvertisementHe said the emails purporting to show huge Facebook ad spending by the Cambodian government were fake information, but he declined to provide a more accurate figure.Mr. Sam Rainsy has been living overseas since 2015, after being bombarded with a spate of lawsuits that would see him jailed for years if he were to return. In one of his many legal cases, he was convicted of defamation after complaining that the prime minister appeared to be purchasing Facebook likes from India and the Philippines. In three others, he was prosecuted for comments made on the site.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Cambodian government has also clamped down on ordinary Facebook users, monitoring the site for dissent and sometimes prosecuting people. One woman fled the country after being sought by the police for throwing a shoe at a sign advertising the Cambodian Peoples Party and uploading a video of the act to Facebook. On Thursday, Thailand sent her back to Cambodia, where she was taken into police custody.In another case, a student was jailed for 18 months for calling for a color revolution on Facebook. No pro-government Facebook users have ever been prosecuted along similar lines.Huy Vannak, an under secretary of state at Cambodias Interior Ministry who often speaks on behalf of the government on media-related matters, said on Thursday that Mr. Sam Rainsys petition was stupid and funny. He said Facebook was a level playing field where both the government and the opposition were free to promote their pages and make appeals to voters.I just tell stupid Sam Rainsy that if he plays Facebook, he should know about this, Mr. Huy Vannak said. Facebook has room for everyone to pay and boost their Facebook likes. This is reality. If he wants more likes on his Facebook, he can pay the money to Facebook, and then he will get more likes if he wants.A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2018, on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Scuffle Over Facebook Likes for Cambodias Prime Minister Reaches a U.S. Court.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Bits By                     
 FARHAD MANJOO
 
FEB. 2, 2018
Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo, The Timess technology columnist, reviews the weeks news, offering analysis (and maybe a joke or two) about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Good morning, readers! Here are a couple of big stories from tech land this week.Amazon, JPMorgan Chase and Berkshire Hathaway walk into a hospital. Thats either the setup to a bad joke or the start of a revolution in American health care — but for now, nobody knows the punch line.The three companies announced on Tuesday that they were forming an independent health care company for their employees in the United States. That was just about all they announced.The companies offered few details on how they plan to overhaul their workers health care, or even if they planned to overhaul it — for all we know, they might just start some kind of office wellness program, hand out free pedometers and kitchen magnets reminding you to drink more water and call it a day.AdvertisementBut this is Amazon! Amazon thinks big! And so despite the dearth of details, the announcement made a splash in the business world, prompting optimism that someone may finally be on the verge of reforming the expensive and complex health care industry.AdvertisementYou should read this piece by my colleagues at The Upshot for an explanation of why American health care will prove difficult even for Jeff Bezos, Jamie Dimon and Warren Buffett to fix. And theyre not necessarily the first to try.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For me, the hype surrounding the announcement was further evidence of Amazons recent ability to get big public-relations wins for offering only the vaguest of promises — see its recent HQ2 media coup. Its an impressive achievement, in terms of marketing. Where the companys reputation once seemed headed toward something like Walmarts — that is, widely seen as a kind of monster spawn of American capitalism — now Amazon is fast becoming something else in the public eye: The fix-anything, can-do business hero who rolls up his sleeves to take on Americas biggest challenges.In that vein: Tune in for Bezoss star turn in Amazons Super Bowl commercial on Sunday.Amazons rep rehab happened in a year in which tech companies have been hammered in the media, none more so than Facebook. Now Facebook is turning a new leaf, according to Mark Zuckerberg.In an earnings report on Wednesday, Facebooks chief repeated what he has been saying for several months now: Facebook is going to address its effects on society by encouraging people to use Facebook less often.And guess what? Its working! Right there in the lead paragraph of its earnings news release, Zuck proudly noted that we made changes that reduced time spent on Facebook by roughly 50 million hours every day.I dont need to tell you that it is very strange for a C.E.O. to brag about people using his products less often. Investors didnt know what to make of the news; Facebooks stock fell in the aftermath of its report. But by Thursday, shares were back up, suggesting Facebooks argument to investors had stuck.Zuck argues that if people spend less time on the site but feel like the time they do spend there is more valuable, Facebooks advertising business will prosper too. So far that is bearing out — Facebooks bottom line is still increasing at a double-digit rate.But Im fascinated by what happens next. Facebook, so far, has thrived on its promise of never-ending usage growth. Its shift to a new metric for success will be of enormous significance for the company and how its products fit into our lives. I doubt the transition will occur without eventual pushback from investors.Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. You can follow him on Twitter here: @fmanjoo.A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Less Time on Facebook, More Noise From Amazon.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SHEERA FRENKELJAN. 31, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, has embarked on an overhaul of what people see and consume on the social network. The changes have left investors wondering whether people will still spend as much time on the site and whether brands will continue placing as many digital ads there.On Wednesday, Facebook sought to soothe Wall Streets worries over those questions. No, people will not spend as much time on the site, the company said as it reported quarterly financial results. But dont worry, Facebook added, because the changes will ultimately benefit its business.With the adjustments to what it shows on its site, I believe that the time spent on Facebook will be more valuable, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a conference call with analysts. If people interact more, it should lead to stronger community. When you care about something, youre willing to see ads to experience it.The scrutiny followed changes that Facebook announced in January to its News Feed, the scrolling screen of content that the social networks more than two billion members see when they log in to the site. After months of criticism over the harmful effects of the social network, Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook wanted to emphasize more meaningful content, such as photos and posts that friends and family have interacted with, and would play down articles from publishers. At the time, Mr. Zuckerberg acknowledged that the shift might cause people to spend less time on Facebook, at least in the short run.AdvertisementThat has already proven to be true in some instances, Facebook revealed on Wednesday. The shift to more meaningful content has just started rolling out, but the company made other changes last year as a precursor to the latest moves, including cutting down on viral videos. In response, Facebook users over all reduced the time they spent on the platform by roughly 50 million hours a day, Mr. Zuckerberg said, which translates to about two minutes a day for each of the companys 1.4 billion daily users.AdvertisementOther measures of engagement also fell. The company said the number of people in the United States and Canada who use Facebook on a daily basis fell for the first time ever in last years fourth quarter, dropping to 184 million from 185 million a year earlier.Mr. Zuckerberg said these declines were just fluctuations as Facebook made changes to its platform. Over all, the total number of people who use Facebook monthly jumped 14 percent in the fourth quarter to 2.13 billion users, which is a rate of growth that is far higher than that of many other social media companies.We have a responsibility to fully understand how our services are used and amplify the good, Mr. Zuckerberg said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.His comments came as Facebook reported another set of blockbuster financial results. The company said its revenue surged by 47 percent to nearly $13 billion in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, while profit rose 56 percent to $4.3 billion. The social network also said it had taken a $2.3 billion charge to cover the repatriation of foreign earnings under the new tax code that was signed into law last month.Facebook also continued to spend ferociously over the fourth quarter, with capital expenditures reaching $2.3 billion. The company said its number of employees increased 47 percent from a year ago to 25,105 people.Facebook spent much of last year grappling with questions about whether it had become a force for ill. The company disclosed that it been manipulated by Russian agents who were trying to sway the result of the 2016 elections; Facebook faced a grilling by lawmakers on Capitol Hill over the situation.Other social media companies were also exploited for the same purpose, including Twitter, which said on Wednesday that it had informed 1.4 million people in the United States that they had interacted with Russian propaganda on the service, up from a previous number of 677,775 people.Facebook has taken a conciliatory tone in terms of coming to terms with its power over advertising and how people interact and engage with each other, said Debra Williamson, an analyst with research firm eMarketer. She said that the changes to the News Feed showed that Facebook was not afraid to experiment with their core products.Even with the changes to the News Feed, Facebooks robust revenue is a salve for investors, said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research.AdvertisementThose concerns havent shown up in the numbers, at least not yet, he said, adding that most investors were focusing on how Facebook was raising revenue at a remarkable pace.Follow Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @sheerafA version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2018, on Page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook Chief Tries to Soothe Wall Street Over Changes to Sites News Feed.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CECILIA KANGJAN. 30, 2018
WASHINGTON — At the age of 6, a child is full of imagination and may not distinguish reality from fantasy. She is beginning to read and cant grasp nuances in written communication. She also doesnt understand privacy.Citing those reasons and more, dozens of pediatric and mental health experts are calling on Facebook to kill a messaging service the company introduced last month for children as young as 6.In a letter to the company, they said the service, Messenger Kids, which pushes the companys user base well below its previous minimum age of 13, preys on a vulnerable group developmentally unprepared to be on the social network.The letter was organized by the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, an advocacy group that has successfully pushed companies to abandon marketing like a Pokemon Go app that sent children to fast food and other stores, and McDonalds advertising on the envelopes of report cards in Florida.AdvertisementFacebooks new app for young children opens greater concerns, the group said.Younger children are simply not ready to have social media accounts, the experts said in the letter. A growing body of research demonstrates that excessive use of digital devices and social media is harmful to children and teens, making it very likely this new app will undermine childrens healthy development.AdvertisementThe opposition to Facebooks app adds to growing societal concerns over digital media and devices. Some big Apple investors called on the company this month to work harder to make the iPhone less addictive, and some former Facebook employees have warned about how effectively the service hooks users.And academic research, including a study released last week, shows that the rise in smartphone and social media use tracked with greater unhappiness among teenagers.Messenger Kids is a texting-type service that a parent sets up for a child. The parent uses his or her own Facebook account for the child, but the app is otherwise not a part of the main Facebook service. The app doesnt have News Feed or a like button, which some mental health experts have linked to anxiety among teenagers on social media.But many elements of the social network are there, including emojis, selfies, video chat and group texting.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook says Messenger Kids provides a safer environment for children than many online experiences. The app has no advertising, for example.The company said it had consulted with the National PTA and several academics and families before introducing the app.Messenger Kids is a messaging app that helps parents and children to chat in a safer way, with parents always in control of their childs contacts and interactions, Facebook said in a statement.But many health advocates say the app is still engineered to hook users, and that it is giving Facebook early access to its next generation of users.Facebook is making children into a market, and the youngest children will be more likely to get hooked even earlier, said Michael Brody, a former chairman of the media committee of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2018, on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: Turn Off Messenger Kids, Health Experts Plead in a Letter to Facebook.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NELLIE BOWLESFEB. 4, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — A group of Silicon Valley technologists who were early employees at Facebook and Google, alarmed over the ill effects of social networks and smartphones, are banding together to challenge the companies they helped build.The cohort is creating a union of concerned experts called the Center for Humane Technology. Along with the nonprofit media watchdog group Common Sense Media, it also plans an anti-tech addiction lobbying effort and an ad campaign at 55,000 public schools in the United States.The campaign, titled The Truth About Tech, will be funded with $7 million from Common Sense and capital raised by the Center for Humane Technology. Common Sense also has $50 million in donated media and airtime from partners including Comcast and DirecTV. It will be aimed at educating students, parents and teachers about the dangers of technology, including the depression that can come from heavy use of social media.We were on the inside, said Tristan Harris, a former in-house ethicist at Google who is heading the new group. We know what the companies measure. We know how they talk, and we know how the engineering works.AdvertisementThe effect of technology, especially on younger minds, has become hotly debated in recent months. In January, two big Wall Street investors asked Apple to study the health effects of its products and to make it easier to limit childrens use of iPhones and iPads. Pediatric and mental health experts called on Facebook last week to abandon a messaging service the company had introduced for children as young as 6. Parenting groups have also sounded the alarm about YouTube Kids, a product aimed at children that sometimes features disturbing content.AdvertisementThe largest supercomputers in the world are inside of two companies — Google and Facebook — and where are we pointing them? Mr. Harris said. Were pointing them at peoples brains, at children.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Silicon Valley executives for years positioned their companies as tight-knit families and rarely spoke publicly against one another. That has changed. Chamath Palihapitiya, a venture capitalist who was an early employee at Facebook, said in November that the social network was ripping apart the social fabric of how society works.The new Center for Humane Technology includes an unprecedented alliance of former employees of some of todays biggest tech companies. Apart from Mr. Harris, the center includes Sandy Parakilas, a former Facebook operations manager; Lynn Fox, a former Apple and Google communications executive; Dave Morin, a former Facebook executive; Justin Rosenstein, who created Facebooks Like button and is a co-founder of Asana; Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook; and Renée DiResta, a technologist who studies bots.The group expects its numbers to grow. Its first project to reform the industry will be to introduce a Ledger of Harms — a website aimed at guiding rank-and-file engineers who are concerned about what they are being asked to build. The site will include data on the health effects of different technologies and ways to make products that are healthier.Jim Steyer, chief executive and founder of Common Sense, said the Truth About Tech campaign was modeled on antismoking drives and focused on children because of their vulnerability. That may sway tech chief executives to change, he said. Already, Apples chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, told The Guardian last month that he would not let his nephew on social media, while the Facebook investor Sean Parker also recently said of the social network that God only knows what its doing to our childrens brains.Mr. Steyer said, You see a degree of hypocrisy with all these guys in Silicon Valley.The new group also plans to begin lobbying for laws to curtail the power of big tech companies. It will initially focus on two pieces of legislation: a bill being introduced by Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, that would commission research on technologys impact on childrens health, and a bill in California by State Senator Bob Hertzberg, a Democrat, which would prohibit the use of digital bots without identification.Mr. McNamee said he had joined the Center for Humane Technology because he was horrified by what he had helped enable as an early Facebook investor.Facebook appeals to your lizard brain — primarily fear and anger, he said. And with smartphones, theyve got you for every waking moment.AdvertisementHe said the people who made these products could stop them before they did more harm.This is an opportunity for me to correct a wrong, Mr. McNamee said.Follow Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @NellieBowles.A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Early Facebook and Google Employees Form Coalition to Fight What They Built.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JACK NICAS and SHEERA FRENKELFEB. 23, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — On Wednesday, one week after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., Facebook and YouTube vowed to crack down on the trolls.Thousands of posts and videos had popped up on the sites, falsely claiming that survivors of the shooting were paid actors or part of various conspiracy theories. Facebook called the posts abhorrent. YouTube, which is owned by Google, said it needed to do better. Both promised to remove the content.The companies have since aggressively pulled down many posts and videos and reduced the visibility of others. Yet on Friday, spot searches of the sites revealed that the noxious content was far from eradicated.On Facebook and Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, searches for the hashtag #crisisactor, which accused the Parkland survivors of being actors, turned up hundreds of posts perpetuating the falsehood (though some also criticized the conspiracy theory). Many of the posts had been tweaked ever so slightly — for example, videos had been renamed #propaganda rather than #hoax — to evade automated detection. And on YouTube, while many of the conspiracy videos claiming that the students were actors had been taken down, other videos that claimed the shooting had been a hoax remained rife.AdvertisementFacebook faced renewed criticism on Friday after it was revealed that the company showcased a virtual reality shooting game at the Conservative Political Action Conference this week. Facebook said it was removing the game from its demonstration of its new virtual reality products.AdvertisementThe resilience of misinformation, despite efforts by the tech behemoths to eliminate it, has become a real-time case study of how the companies are constantly a step behind in stamping out the content. At every turn, trolls, conspiracy theorists and others have proved to be more adept at taking advantage of exactly what the sites were created to do — encourage people to post almost anything they want — than the companies are at catching them.Theyre not able to police their platforms when the type of content that theyre promising to prohibit changes on a too-frequent basis, Jonathon Morgan, founder of New Knowledge, a company that tracks disinformation online, said of Facebook and YouTube.The difficulty of dealing with inappropriate online content stands out with the Parkland shooting because the tech companies have effectively committed to removing any accusations that the Parkland survivors were actors, a step they did not take after other recent mass shootings, such as last Octobers massacre in Las Vegas. In the past, the companies typically addressed specific types of content only when it was illegal — posts from terrorist organizations, for example — Mr. Morgan said.Facebook and YouTubes promises follow a stream of criticism in recent months over how their sites can be gamed to spread Russian propaganda, among other abuses. The companies have said they are betting big on artificial intelligence systems to help identify and take down inappropriate content, though that technology is still being developed.The companies have in the meantime hired or said they plan to hire more people to comb through what is posted to their sites. Facebook said it was hiring 1,000 new moderators to review content and was making changes to what type of news publishers would be favored on the social network. YouTube has said that it plans to have 10,000 moderators by years end and that it is altering its search algorithms to return more videos from reliable news sources.Mary deBree, head of content policy at Facebook, said the company had not been perfect at staving off certain content and most likely would not be in the future.False information is like any other challenge where humans are involved: It evolves, much like a rumor or urban legend would. It also masks itself as legitimate speech, she said. Our job is to do better at keeping this bad content off Facebook without undermining the reason people come here — to see things happening in the world around them and have a conversation about them.A YouTube spokeswoman said in a statement that the site updated its harassment policy last year to include hoax videos that target the victims of these tragedies. Any video flagged to us that violates this policy is reviewed and then removed.AdvertisementFor many people, getting around Facebook and YouTubes hunt to remove noxious content is straightforward. The sites have automated detection systems that often search for specific terms or images that have previously been deemed unacceptable. So to evade those systems, people sometimes can alter images or switch to different terminology.Sam Woolley, an internet researcher at the nonprofit Institute for the Future, said far-right groups had started using internet brands to describe minorities — like Skype to indicate Jewish people — to trick software and human reviewers.Those who post conspiracy theories also tend to quickly repost or engage with similar posts from other accounts, creating a sort of viral effect that can cause the sites algorithms to promote the content as a trending topic or a recommended video, said David Carroll, a professor at the New School who studies tech platforms.That duplication and repackaging of misinformation make the game of snuffing it out Whac-a-Mole to the extreme, he said.That game played out across the web in the past few days, after a video suggesting that one of the most vocal Parkland survivors, David Hogg, was an actor became the No. 1 trending video on YouTube. After a public outcry, YouTube removed the video and said it would take down other crisis actor videos because they violated its ban on bullying. YouTube has since scrubbed its site of many such videos.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Yet some of the videos remained, possibly because they used slightly different terminology. One clip that had drawn more than 77,000 views by Friday described the shooting survivors as disaster performers instead of crisis actors.Other videos that were not about the Parkland survivors but that called the entire shooting into question also stayed online. A video posted last week by Alex Jones, the founder of the conspiracy theory site Infowars, titled Red Alert! Evidence Mounts Florida Attacks Is a Giant False Flag had attracted more than 300,000 views by Friday.AdvertisementOn Facebook, some of the posts the social network had vowed to ban were still gaining traction. One lengthy post had been shared more than 3,800 times by early Friday. The post included a photo of Mr. Hogg and his classmate Emma Gonzalez with the text Globalist Deep State Crisis Actors.After The New York Times contacted the author of the post, a self-described political analyst named John Miranda, the post disappeared. It is unclear if Facebook removed it. Mr. Miranda did not respond to a request for comment.The tech companies increasing efforts to remove misinformation have a side effect: angering some of their most active users.Moe Othman, a comedian and commentator on YouTube who has about 60,000 subscribers, said that within 10 minutes of posting a video on Wednesday that suggested some Parkland students were actors, YouTube removed it and placed a strike on his account. YouTube terminates accounts after three strikes.Mr. Othman said in a private message on Twitter: Im not surprised. We live in a world where information is one of the most important tools. He added, In this case, I see YouTube as a censoring machine.Would he stop using YouTube? No, he said, mainly because Im still a comedian who simply wants to make people laugh.Follow Jack Nicas and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @jacknicas and @sheerafA version of this article appears in print on February 24, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Lies Elude the Promises of Online Giants to Do Better in Stamping Them Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 31, 2018
Good Wednesday. Heres what were watching:• Facebook calms concerns about ad revenue.• Stocks briefly dipped into the red on hawkish Fed.• Could General Electric be dropped from the Dow?• The C.F.P.B. setup is constitutional.• Boeing is powering the Dow again.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.Shares of the social media giant fell more than 4 percent after it reported fourth-quarter earnings that exceeded expectations.The reason? The cost of fixing Facebook. To address mounting criticism, Facebook has introduced sweeping changes to the kinds of posts, videos and photos that its more than two billion members will see most often.AdvertisementOf those changes, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, said in the companies earnings release:Already last quarter, we made changes to show fewer viral videos to make sure peoples time is well spent. In total, we made changes that reduced time spent on Facebook by roughly 50 million hours every day. By focusing on meaningful connections, our community and business will be stronger over the long term.Thats an important metric for demanding higher ad rates.But an hour after its results hit the tape, the stock rebounded and then turned positive.AdvertisementWhat soothed investors concerns? Facebook said on its call with analysts that the average price per ad increased 43 percent in the quarter.The impact it has on monetization is certainly not clearly negative, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebooks chief operating officer, told analysts.The stock is up 1.5 percent after hours.The social media giant reported its fourth-quarter operating profit jumped 61 percent to $7.35 billion after the close Wednesday.The numbers:$4.27 billion— The companys profit for the quarter, including a $3.19 billion tax charge.$12.97 billion — Facebooks revenue for the quarter, up 47 percent from the fourth quarter of 2016.1.4 billion — The number of daily active users, up from 1.37 billion in the third quarter.DealBooks take:Digging deeper, there were several impressive numbers in Facebooks earnings. Its operating profits as a percentage of revenue, or operating margin, ballooned in the fourth quarter to 57 percent, up from 52 percent in the same period last year. Its average revenue per Facebook user increased at a 28 percent clip in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the same period in 2016. That year-on-year growth rate is higher than the 26 percent recorded in the third quarter.But there were numbers that investors will keep an eye on. Changes Facebook made to its news feed reduced the time spent on Facebook by roughly 50 million hours every day. Daily active users in the United States and Canada actually fell to 184 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 from 185 million in the third quarter of last year. But Facebook still managed to generate a huge amount of revenue from the United States and Canada. The region accounted for $6.4 billion of revenue in the fourth quarter of last year, a 40 percent jump from the same period in 2016.Another figure that might cause concern is the growth in capital expenditures, the money a company spends as it invests in new initiatives. Capex hit $2.26 billion in the fourth quarter of last year, a staggering 78 percent jump from the same period in 2016.Advertisement— Peter EavisThe Federal Reserve, as was widely expected, left its benchmark interest rate unchanged in a range between 1.25 percent and 1.5 percent. But the market focused on the change to the Feds inflation language.Todays statement on inflation:Inflation on a 12‑month basis is expected to move up this year and to stabilize around the Committees 2 percent objective over the medium term.The statement from the December meeting:Inflation on a 12‑month basis is expected to remain somewhat below 2 percent in the near term but to stabilize around the Committees 2 percent objective over the medium term.Though the market expected the Fed to raise rates at its March meeting, that language change caused stocks to briefly turn negative. The Standard & Poors 500 index, which had traded as high as 2839, slipped to 2817 an hour after the Feds statement. It recovered in the final hour of trading to finish up at 2824.Reactions:Economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote that the change to the Feds inflation language was decisive and a hawkish signal. The bank also noted: Adding to the conviction of higher inflation, the FOMC noted that market-based measures of inflation compensation have increased in recent months but remain low. This shows that the Fed is taking notice of the recent shift in market perception about inflation.Ian Shepherdson, Pantheon Macroeconomics: In short, the statement sets up the March hike, which will be followed by Jay Powells first press conference. Were expecting continuity of approach, at least for a while.Greg McBride, Bankrate.com: While there is a lot of continuity between Yellen and Powell, many other faces on the committee are changing, and this could mean a Fed that is more inclined to raise interest rates than what weve become accustomed to under Janet Yellen.Analysts over at Deutsche Bank think the chances are increasing. They write:GE continues to face substantial challenges including earnings and cash pressure, tough global power generation markets, aggressive downsizing, shrinking its portfolio, management shake-up and SEC investigations.The analysts add:As the companys absolute share price has continued to drop (and as the share prices of the other companies have been increasing), GE increasingly falls into the category of outlier and consequently a likely candidate for removal, in our opinion.The committee reportedly prefers for the Dow to incur no more than a 10:1 ratio between the component companies highest share price and lowest share price. Currently, the ratio between Boeing (the highest) and GE (the lowest) exceeds 20:1.The context: A S&P Dow Jones Indices committee meets twice a year to review the makeup the Dow industrials.G.E. was among 12 original Dow components when the index was started in 1896 and is the only one of those companies still in the Dow. After briefly being removed twice during the Dows first five years, G.E. has been a member of the index for more than 110 years.— Stephen GrocerA federal appeals court ruled on Wednesday that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureaus director can only be fired by the president for cause. The NYTs Stacy Cowley reports:When Congress created the bureau seven years ago, it specified that the director —after being nominated by the president to a five-year term and confirmed by the Senate — could only be removed for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance. That is different than the structure of most other federal agencies, whose leaders can typically be removed at will by a president.Last year, a three-judge appeals court panel found that setup unconstitutional. On Wednesday, the full court issued a new ruling vacating the previous decision and upholding the constitutionality of the agencys structure.The European Union appears to be leaning against striking a special deal for London, instead giving the financial center more limited access to the European single market.AdvertisementMore from Jim Brunsden of the FT, who first reported on the news, citing unnamed sources:Ensuring that financial services are not badly hit by Brexit is a top priority for the UK, since the sector is Britains biggest source of exports and tax revenue.Theresa Mays government has also argued that if the City is damaged it would adversely affect financial stability and EU groups cost of financing, while contributing to the fragmentation of the sector.But participants said that in the EU27 meeting the European Commission played down the risks of cutting off the City to EU businesses, saying the financial sector was mobile enough to adapt.— Michael J. de la MercedStephen Cutler, who until the end of 2015 was the banks general counsel, will become a litigation partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, according to the WSJ.Since then, he has been a vice chairman of the firm. Before joining JPMorgan in 2006, he worked as the head of enforcement at the S.E.C. and as a top securities lawyer at what was then Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr.More from Sara Randazzo of the WSJ:Mr. Cutler said he is looking forward to returning to the practice of law, something he has done less of in recent years. He said he started talking to Simpson about joining after a conversation over breakfast with a partner there late last fall. He will continue to teach a course at Columbia Law School on the role of the in-house counsel.— Michael J. de la MercedIts Canson Capital Partners, which wasnt even licensed to operate until three months ago. Its founders:• Matteo Canonco, a former global head of financial sponsors at HSBC• James Simpson, a former co-head of advisory for Europe at HSBCMore from Dinesh Nair of Bloomberg, who interviewed Mr. Canonaco:Canonacos ties to senior Blackstone executives may have helped the three-man shop in Londons posh Mayfair neighborhood secure the mandate on one of the three largest takeovers of the year. The newcomers win mirrors the success enjoyed by smaller boutique advisers including Robey Warshaw LLP and Evercore Inc. as well as rainmakers such as Michael Klein in landing key roles — with juicy fees — on some large transactions in recent years.— Michael J. de la MercedShares of Boeing are up 6.3 percent after the companys earnings easily beat expectations.The aerospace company reported a profit of $3.06 a share excluding the tax gain. Analysts had expected $2.90 a share. Revenue jumped 8.9 percent to $25.4 billion. Analysts had forecast $24.7 billion in sales.Boeings rally Wednesday has accounted for about 50 percent of the Dow Jones industrial averages 250 point gain in early trading.Boeings 12 percent rally over the past year has powered the Dows run to record highs. Earlier this month when the Dow surpassed 26000 just eight days after topping 25000, Boeing accounted for about a third of the indexs 1,000-point gain.— Stephen GrocerAt least, thats what the president said in last nights State of the Union address. But how much progress can he make on either front?AdvertisementMore from Julie Davis and Michael Shear of the NYT:He said he would bring Republicans and Democrats together around a $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan to give us the safe, fast, reliable and modern infrastructure our economy needs and our people deserve.Mr. Trump offered few details on his infrastructure proposal. A report by McKinsey & Company says that a comprehensive fix would cost $1.8 trillion, while the American Society of Civil Engineers put the price tag at $2 trillion.All but $200 billion is supposed to come from private investors, but lawmakers are skeptical. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, told reporters, You tell me how we pay for it, and Ill tell you what we can do.Leveraging private dollars is a good start, he added, but we got a lot of work to do.Dont forget immigrationCongress has until Feb. 8 to agree on government funding, and Democrats say they still want a deal to protect the young immigrants known as Dreamers. The White Houses immigration proposal isnt sitting well with them — nor with some House Republicans. Meanwhile, businesses are preparing for the worst if legal protections for the Dreamers expire in March.The Washington flyaround• As the national deficit approaches $1 trillion, both parties are expressing concern — while pushing to increase spending. (NYT)• The Justice Department and the F.B.I. are bracing for the release of a secret memo alleging improprieties in the surveillance of a Trump campaign aide. (NYT)• What companies are doing with their tax savings. (NYT)• The head of the C.D.C., Brenda Fitzgerald, bought shares in Japan Tobacco despite leading an agency charged with reducing tobacco use. (Politico)• Expect populist politics to stick around, Eduardo Porter writes in his latest Economic Scene column. (NYT)Advertisement• Todd Ricketts, the Chicago billionaire, will replace Steve Wynn as the Republican National Committees finance chairman. (WaPo)• The Treasury Departments list of Russian oligarchs was compiled primarily from Forbess list of global billionaires. (Forbes)President Trump also touted the trickle-down effect of the tax overhaul during Tuesdays State of the Union address:Since we passed tax cuts, roughly three million workers have already gotten tax cut bonuses — many of them thousands of dollars per worker.The tax law indeed has prompted hundreds of employers, including at least 40 members of the Standard & Poors 500-stock index, to pass on savings to workers.Much of those perks have come in the form of one-time bonuses. Many companies have also said they would increase base wages, expand benefits and raise charitable donations.Heres a closer look at what companies are doing:
                The tax overhaul has prompted hundreds of employers, including at least 40 members of the Standard & Poors 500-stock index, to pass on savings to workers.            Warren Buffett has called the U.S. health care system a hungry tapeworm on the American economy because of its ever-growing costs. So his Berkshire Hathaway has teamed up with Amazon and JPMorgan Chase to create a new — and as of now largely undefined — health care provider.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Our colleague Peter Eavis had four questions about the initiative:• What is it, beyond the thin description of an independent company free from profit-making incentives and constraints?• How big will it be?• What expertise will these companies bring?• How will this venture cut costs?The numbers that matter• $18,764: the average premium for family coverage for employees nationwide, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.Advertisement• 30 percent: the current amount of the premium paid for by workers.• 5 percent and 7 percent: how much the shares of Anthem and Cigna fell yesterday. (Insurers and prescription benefits managers as a whole took a hit on the news.)Critics corner• Margot Sanger-Katz and Reed Abelson offer reasons to temper expectations. (Upshot)• Robert Cyran writes, Amazon is already perceived as a potential threat to many U.S. businesses. Add other big employers, and the threat is multiplied. (Breakingviews)One of the icons of 20th-century corporate America, the long-struggling company will now be controlled by Fujifilm Holdings of Japan.Its a complicated transaction• Xerox will be folded into an existing 55-year-old joint venture.• Xerox investors will receive a special cash dividend of $9.80 a share and will own 49.9 percent of the combined business, which will be publicly traded.• The move is expected to save at least $1.7 billion in costs, though Fujifilm will cut 10,000 jobs.The context: Xerox has struggled over the years with a decline in corporate printing, and it spun out its business services unit last year. Two of its biggest investors, Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason, have pressured the company to explore a deal — including revising or ending the Fujifilm joint venture.Behind the deal: Fujifilm relied on Mitsubishi UFJ, Morgan Stanley and the law firm Morrison & Foerster. (It is also borrowing from Citigroup and Morgan Stanley.) Xerox took advice from Centerview Partners and the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.AdvertisementBlackstones $20 billion deal (including debt) for control of the companys financial and risk division highlights the growing ambitions of private equity firms — and how they need to spend nearly $1 trillion in uninvested capital.Behind the dealBlackstone believes that the financial and risk division, which includes Thomson Reuterss Eikon terminal service, can continue to grow. We are excited to partner with Thomson Reuters — one of the most trusted companies in financial technology, Martin Brand of Blackstone said in a statement.Meanwhile, Thomson Reuters gets a cash infusion as it competes against Bloomberg LP and tries to deal with customers spending less on financial data. Bloomberg pointed out that the companys controlling Thomson family is essentially retreating to the news business.Critics corner• Gillian Tan writes, Despite the $20 billion price tag, the deal seems like a bargain. (Gadfly)• Lex writes, Any spinoff would put paid to the Thomson familys decade-long hopes for combining a media business with financial services. (Lex)• The trial in Waymos lawsuit accusing Uber of stealing its driverless car technology is set to start today. (NYT)• The Justice Department and the S.E.C. are investigating whether Apple violated securities laws concerning its disclosures about a software update that slowed older iPhone models, according to unidentified sources. (Bloomberg)• Googles rivals have complained to European regulators that the search giant is still stymying competition in online shopping, despite an order to change its behavior. (WSJ)Advertisement• An app that inadvertently revealed the locations of military personnel is the latest sign that we need better control over our data, writes Zeynep Tufekci, a professor at the School of Information and Library Science at the University of North Carolina. (NYT)• SoftBanks Vision Fund finally struck a deal to invest $300 million in Wag, the dog-walking start-up. (NYT)January has been the worst month for the virtual currency in three years, with its price down 30 percent. And its because of the very thing that Bitcoin and other digital currencies were supposed to be free from: central authorities and regulators.• The S.E.C. froze a $600 million initial coin offering yesterday run by AriseBank.• China has continued to clamp down on Bitcoin mining.• South Korea is still weighing legal checks on virtual currency trading.Add in Facebooks banning of ads for digital money, and mining or trading virtual currencies has become a lot harder.But not everyone has gotten the memo: The Japanese messaging service Line has plans to open its own virtual currency exchange, while the embattled publisher of Penthouse magazine wants to promote its own adult-entertainment-focused token.As Steve Wynn faces allegations of sexual assault and other misconduct, the board of his casino empire is increasingly coming under scrutiny, too.The proxy adviser ISS has long criticized the compensation of Mr. Wynn over the years, going so far as to say that the company had an overall corporate governance profile that ranks among the worst, not the best, of U.S. companies.AdvertisementThe board said that it was setting up an independent committee to look into the allegations. It will be led by Patricia Mulroy, Wynns only female director and a former official at Nevadas gaming commission.Meanwhile, investigating Wynn are gaming regulators for Nevada, Massachusetts and Macau.The misconduct flyaround• Vice said that its chief digital officer, Mike Germano, would not return to the company after sexual harassment allegations against him prompted an internal investigation. (NYT)• #MeToo has put pressure on companies, especially financial firms, to disclose information on their work force diversity. (Reuters)• Hillary Clinton said that she should have fired a 2008 campaign aide after he was accused of sexual harassment. (Facebook)• Och-Ziff Capital Management has named Rob Shafir, previously the head of Credit Suisses American operations, as the successor to Daniel Och, laying to rest questions about its leadership planning. (Och-Ziff)• Volkswagen suspended its chief lobbyist on Tuesday amid a growing furor over experiments on monkeys that were meant to promote the virtues of diesel-powered vehicles. (NYT)• A California woman is suing Walmart, accusing it of racial discrimination because her local store keeps African-American personal care products locked up in a glass case. (NYT)Advertisement• David Cameron, the former British prime minister, has courted Chinas sovereign wealth fund as a potential investor for his $1 trillion infrastructure fund. (FT)• Carlos Slim is increasingly at odds with his onetime mentee, AT&T C.E.O. Randall Stephenson. (WSJ)• Exxon Mobil said that it would triple its oil and gas production in the Permian Basin, which straddles West Texas and New Mexico. (NYT)• ISS has become the kingmaker in proxy contests between hedge fund activists and their multibillion-dollar prey — an astonishing fact given that ISS is worth less than $1 billion and that it started out as a back-office support system. (Institutional Investor)• Lex examines whether share buybacks undermine companies financial health, juice bonuses and threaten the real economy. (FT)Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRIS STANFORDFEB. 1, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know:• How did a divisive statement written on Air Force One last year come together, and how much did President Trump oversee the process? Prosecutors have recently questioned numerous White House officials to find out.Our Washington reporters compiled a detailed timeline of how the administration responded to news of a meeting in 2016 between Russians and top Trump campaign officials. A statement described it as being about a Russian adoption policy; in fact, it involved an offer of political dirt about Hillary Clinton.• On Wednesday, the F.B.I. condemned a push by House Republicans to release a secret memo said to show how law enforcement officials abused their authority in the Russia inquiry. Mr. Trump has said he wants the document released.• During his State of the Union address, President Trump noted that Americans are Dreamers, too, adopting a term used to refer to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the U.S. illegally.AdvertisementThe reaction in Congress was sharply divided on Wednesday, and the two sides in the immigration debate now seem further apart than ever.AdvertisementSeparately, White House officials left the details of the presidents $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan to Congress. Even labor groups that have long backed increased infrastructure spending reacted coolly: Thats not a plan. Thats a hope, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. said.• Mr. Trump sent no new detainees to the wartime prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, during the first year of his presidency. We look at the problems that have steered the administration to other options.• The Justice Department dropped charges against Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat, on Wednesday, underscoring how a 2016 Supreme Court ruling raised the bar for corruption cases against elected officials.Separately, Dr. Brenda Fitzgerald, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, resigned over criticism  of her investments in tobacco and health care companies.• Nearly 7,000 Syrians who were granted temporary permission to live and work in the U.S. will be allowed to stay for at least 18 more months because of the continuing civil war in their country, the administration announced.• Prosecutors are seeking information about some of the worlds biggest sports organizations, and exploring possible racketeering, money laundering and fraud charges.FIFA, the International Olympic Committee and the U.S. Olympic Committee are among those under scrutiny; the investigation is also looking at business executives involved in bids for major sporting events.Advertisement• Separately, an international tribunal today reinstated most of the Russian athletes who had been barred from the Olympics for doping, but the I.O.C. said it still might not allow them to compete in the Winter Games this month in South Korea.Republicans say they only want to make public their doubts about the F.B.I. and the Justice Department. But the possible fallout has everything to do with the special counsel.• People will most likely spend less time on Facebook as a result of News Feed changes. But less can be more, the company explained to a worried Wall Street.• Months after its enormous security breach, Equifax introduced an app to help customers lock access to their credit files. It didnt work.• Xerox, once such an American corporate powerhouse that its name became a verb,  is coming under Japanese control.• More than a million Twitter followers  have disappeared since a Times investigation about the proliferation of fake accounts.• U.S. stocks were up on Wednesday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Have you given up on your New Years resolution? Get back on track.• Prepare for the big game with our favorite Super Bowl recipes.• Gochujang, a spicy Korean condiment, makes for a great braised chicken dinner.• Partisan writing you shouldnt missAdvertisementWriters from across the political spectrum discuss the State of the Union address.• Generation Z picks a better nameLast week we asked readers 22 and younger to tell us what theyd like their generation to be called.Dont call us anything, one wrote. The whole notion of cohesive generations is nonsense. Here are some of the other responses.• Hut! Hut! What?The distinctive command of football is not Now! or Go! Its Hut! Even players arent sure why.We also spoke to Nick Foles, the Philadelphia Eagles starting quarterback in the Super Bowl on Sunday.• Jamaican pioneersThe Winter Olympics are around the corner, but lets talk about the Summer Games for a moment.Despite being surrounded by water, Jamaica has never had a synchronized swimming team at the Olympics. We met some girls who are trying to change that.Get a nightly rundown of the days top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Best of late-night TVSamantha Bee maintained a steady drum beat of coverage against workplace harassment.Advertisement• Quotation of the dayWhen you make $13 an hour and you have to pay rent and buy groceries, you cant afford an Uber. I can barely afford a seven-day MetroCard.— Delrisa Sewell-Henry, a home health aide, on grueling commutes in New York City.• The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.On this day in 1887, Harvey Wilcox, a real estate developer from Kansas, filed a plan with Los Angeles County for a small, gridded subdivision that he called Hollywood. (The origin of the name is a subject of dispute.)Over the next decade, Mr. Wilcox and his wife, Daeida, conjured out of the desert a strict Christian community of orchards and Victorian cottages, connected to Los Angeles by a lone streetcar line.There were just a few hundred residents, and the hamlet banned alcohol, bowling alleys and even, briefly, movie theaters. But in 1910, Hollywood voted to merge with Los Angeles.Soon, movie studios fled the enforcement of Thomas Edisons monopoly on film patents and started setting up in the ideal Southern California light.In 1923, the Hollywoodland sign went up (it was truncated to Hollywood in 1949). The original sign was an illuminated billboard for a segregated housing development that called itself a fortress against metropolitanism; one ad urged, Protect your family.The sign was left up as the so-called Golden Age of Hollywood arrived, a noirish era embodied by the starlet Peg Entwistle, who jumped to her death from the H in 1932.AdvertisementPenn Bullock contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Sunday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Picture Prompts By                     
 NATALIE PROULX
 
FEB. 1, 2018
What do you think this image is saying? Can you personally relate to it in any way? Do you agree with its message? Why or why not?Tell us in the comments, then read the related article to find out the authors thoughts on friendship.Find many more ways to use our Picture Prompt feature in this lesson plan.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas L. FriedmanCameron Kasky, a 17-year-old at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who survived last weeks mass shooting, wrote a beautiful essay for CNN.com that declared: At the end of the day, the students at my school felt one shared experience — our politicians abandoned us by failing to keep guns out of schools. But this time, my classmates and I are going to hold them to account. This time we are going to pressure them to take action. This time we are going to force them to spend more energy protecting human lives than unborn fetuses.Cameron, God bless you for that sentiment. But just one piece of respectful advice: If your generation and mine want to get serious about a gun control crusade, we all need to get out of Facebook and into someones face: the N.R.A.s.This fight cant be won on Twitter or Instagram. They do get people into the streets. But social media have created a world of faux activism — Hey, I tweeted about it — that the bad guys take advantage of. The N.R.A. is not just in the chat rooms. Its in the cloakrooms of Congress and state legislatures. And its there with bags of money and votes it uses to reward lawmakers who do its bidding and hurt those who dont.I loved seeing the 100 students from your high school taking buses Tuesday to Floridas capital to directly press lawmakers. Thats a great start. I hope every high school follows.But, ultimately, nothing will change unless young and old who oppose the N.R.A. run for office, vote, help someone vote, register someone to vote or help fund someones campaign — so we can threaten the same electoral pain as the National Rifle Association, which, according to PolitiFact, spent $203.2 million between 1998 and 2017 funding its candidates, defeating gun control advocates and lobbying. This is not about persuading people with better ideas. We tried that. Its about generating raw electoral power and pain.Because most of the G.O.P. members of Congress who do the N.R.A.s bidding care about only one thing: their jobs. The pay of a typical congressman is $174,000 — and free parking at Reagan National Airport — and they will sell themselves to whoever can generate the votes to enable them to keep both.Are some Democratic lawmakers cowards, too? You bet. But I can show you plenty who have bucked their partys orthodoxies on education and trade and who insisted that their much-admired colleague Senator Al Franken had to resign over sexual harassment allegations. And most of them have long dared to lose elections to oppose the N.R.A. This is primarily a G.O.P. problem today.How do we know that? Read the paper or the web. The G.O.P., which claimed to stand for conservative family values, has prostrated itself before the most indecent person to ever occupy the White House — a man who lies as he breathes, smears poor, nonwhite nations and reportedly had sex with a porn star shortly after his wife delivered their son. But G.O.P. lawmakers are mute on this because President Trump energizes their base and ensures their $174,000-a-year jobs and free parking at Reagan National Airport.This is a party whose evangelicals have been telling us for decades that life is so sacred the G.O.P. must oppose abortion — even in the case of rape, incest or risk to the mothers life. But Republicans wont back common-sense gun laws that would protect fully developed human beings — because the N.R.A. energizes their base and funds their campaigns and ensures their $174,000-a-year jobs and free parking at Reagan National Airport.This is a party whose Freedom Caucus was so obsessed with our rising national debt that it tried to prevent Barack Obama from spending a dime to stimulate our economy after it went deep into recession — but just voted to add $1 trillion to the debt for a corporate tax cut without regard for the burden put on our kids. Republicans did so because Trump energizes their base and ensures that they keep their $174,000-a-year jobs and free parking at Reagan National Airport.Trying to embarrass them to act on principle is wasted breath. I suspect theyre already embarrassed. When these G.O.P. lawmakers are alone at home contemplating the pictures of all these kids gunned down in Florida — thinking about what itd be like to be one of their parents — plenty of them probably feel filthy for doing the N.R.A.s bidding.They know full well that most voters are not asking to scrap the Second Amendment, but for common-sense gun laws that could prevent or reduce more school shootings and would not interfere with any decent Americans right to own guns for hunting, sports or self-protection.They know full well that a common-sense banning of all military assault weapons, high-capacity magazines and bump stocks, or mandating universal background checks for gun buyers or to prevent terrorists and the mentally ill from buying guns, would not curb the constitutional right to bear arms.They know full well that theyre in the grip of an N.R.A. cult, whose heart is so frozen, its content to watch innocent children and adults get gunned down weekly — rather than impose common-sense gun limits. They know all of this — but they suppress it, because they also know if they vote for common-sense gun laws, the N.R.A. will fund their next opponent. Like I said, this is just about raw naked power, and that is what sensible gun control advocates have to generate more of now — in the form of votes and campaign funding. Otherwise nothing changes.Keep speaking out, Cameron — but never underestimate what some people will do for a $174,000 job and free parking at Reagan National Airport.Frank Bruni is off today.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy DAMIEN CAVE and XIUZHONG XUFEB. 18, 2018
SYDNEY, Australia — During her second week waitressing at a barbecue restaurant in Sydney, a customer asked Yating Yang if she was Chinese. No, Im Taiwanese, she said.Her boss, who was from mainland China, never gave her another shift.Man-Tzu Tuan said her loyalty test came even sooner: on her first day at a hot pot restaurant in a comfortable Sydney suburb. Is Taiwan part of China? her manager asked in Mandarin over a walkie talkie. No, definitely not, she said.A half-hour later, she was fired.Chinas assertiveness has already set off alarms in Australia, with officials warning that Beijing has been meddling in Australian politics more than the public realizes. But the experiences of Ms. Yang and Ms. Tuan — along with many others — reveal how Chinese nationalism is also affecting private enterprise and, in some cases, leading to accusations of discrimination.Australias fair work laws make clear that an employer cannot discriminate against an employee or prospective employee because of the persons political opinion, national extraction or social origin. But experts and Taiwanese workers say that is exactly what many Chinese business owners are doing, with few repercussions.AdvertisementIts getting more noticeable, said Yao-Tai Li, a Taiwanese sociologist at Hong Kong Baptist University who has studied Chinese migration to Australia and work conditions. Chinese nationalism is growing, but the Australian government doesnt really take any big actions; they keep it ambiguous.Few countries have benefited as much from Chinas rise as Australia, which is in its 27th year without a recession in large part because of Chinese trade and investment.AdvertisementBut along with Chinese money has come Chinese migration. Hundreds of thousands of mainland Chinese have immigrated to Australia in the past decade. Many of them have brought ideas for businesses, but also an ideology that stresses the unity of China, viewing Taiwan as a rebellious territory that broke away in 1949.And as Chinas government has intensified a crackdown on those who fail to recognize its One China policy — from human rights advocates to corporations like the Marriott hotel chain — members of the Chinese diaspora have similarly taken up the cause on a more personal scale.Their efforts have added to a sense of Chinese ubiquity: For anyone who identifies as Taiwanese, supports Taiwans independence — or even inadvertently refers to Taiwan as a country — Chinese nationalism has become a threatening and unrelenting presence, like a smog that never lifts.In Australia, service workers, professionals and students from Taiwan have all described gatherings with mainland colleagues and acquaintances where the default setting is that Taiwan and China are one country.Disagreement is not encouraged.Even people who are very pro-Taiwan often dont want it to be known publicly, said Roger Huang, 35, a Taiwanese academic who helped organize last years Sydney Taiwan Festival. Self-censorship is very real.Some people from Taiwan explain that the most nationalistic Chinese often have a glass heart, meaning they are easily offended by disagreement.AdvertisementOthers note that many people in Taiwan consider the island part of China and that, given the economic benefits, good relations are necessary.Discussing politics is bad for business, said Antonio Guo, 65, the Taiwanese owner of a restaurant in a north Sydney suburb. People get agitated.But for many, silence is the spawn of fear. There are widening concerns in the Australian government and in immigrant communities that the Chinese government is watching and listening, ready to apply pressure on those who do not toe the Communist Party line.Paul Lin, president of the Australian Taiwanese Friendship Association, said several people believed to be Chinese agents were snapping photos of people at the Sydney Taiwan Festival in 2016.Chinese students at Australian universities have also reported close monitoring by their peers, and say the pressure to conform on the issue of Taiwan has been intense in classrooms, at work and on social media.The problem is they think Sydney is Beijing, said Mr. Lin, a businessman who moved to Australia in 1990, referring to the Chinese government and its loyalists. Theyre doing more and more watching and interfering. And theyre getting better at it.Australias mainland-born population has grown rapidly — doubling since 2006 to about 510,000 people — and with the Taiwanese population hovering at less than a tenth of that, an imbalance has emerged. Chinese business owners can easily make Taiwanese workers feel marginalized and vulnerable.Mr. Lin said that for Chinese immigrants who still have family and business interests in China, discriminating could be an entry point, a way to show loyalty to Beijing.AdvertisementMs. Tuans experience provides a glimpse of how that power dynamic works.Her story became public when Ms. Tuan, who goes by Winnie in Australia, published a Facebook post about her experience on Jan. 9, the day she was fired. That post, in which she named the restaurant, HuTong Hot Pot, and a supervisor she called Mr. Ha, quickly went viral on Chinese social media.Chinas Global Times — a state news media outlet — published an article the following day, asking readers: What do you think about this incident, mainland netizens?The editors, leaving little to chance, added that The Global Times would like to go to Sydney, and give Mr. Ha a thumbs up!More than a dozen Chinese news outlets republished the article.Later that week, a post from the restaurant appeared on Weibo, Chinas version of Twitter: It is fate and a privilege, the message said, to have people who respect us coming to dine at our restaurant.The comments section was filled with praise and promises to visit.During the lunch rush one day last week, the restaurant was packed.Asked about Ms. Tuans departure, a young manager said, The company told us were not commenting.Ms. Tuan, 29, said in an interview that other comments on social media were supportive of her cause.People could relate, she said.They included Daniel Chang, 28. A hairdresser working in Melbourne, Mr. Chang said he never received a callback from a salon that had seemed eager to hire him until he mentioned he was Taiwanese.AdvertisementJade Liao, 26, ran afoul of a customer. She said that in 2016, at a shoe store where she worked, a Chinese student berated her after she answered a question about whether Taiwan was part of China.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She started yelling, and pointed a finger at me, Ms. Liao said. I couldnt hold back my tears after she left.Many other Taiwanese workers described similar experiences — mostly young women on working holiday visas.More than 12,000 of these visa holders come to Australia each year from Taiwan, and they are known to be part of a vulnerable cohort that is regularly paid below the minimum wage — an issue that Australias Fair Work Ombudsman has made a priority, assessing penalties against employers of various backgrounds.A spokesman for the agency, however, said it had not undertaken any enforcement actions for discrimination against Taiwanese workers, or any other group, based on their political opinions.Mr. Lin, of the Australian Taiwanese Friendship Association, and many others in the Taiwanese community said Australia must do more to address the issue.Without more effort, Mr. Lin said, China will continue to erode Australias fair go culture of democracy and equality.They are helping China erase the values that Taiwan and Australia share: democracy, human rights and the rule of law, Mr. Lin said in a Sydney shopping mall flush with signs in Mandarin. This is invisible. But this is fundamental.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: A Pointed Question in Australia: Is Taiwan Part of China?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Social Qs By                     
PHILIP GALANES

FEB. 22, 2018
My longtime partner and I decided to open our relationship sexually. Our rules: No emotional entanglements, and neither of us wants to hear about the others sexual activities (directly or from third parties) or be embarrassed by word of trysts spreading among friends. This requires a lot of discretion. I dont know if she has acted on our arrangement yet, but Im too scared to! Im terrified that someone will spot me on a date. So, I havent done anything yet. Any advice?MACLets start with the notion that every long-term relationship is its own ecosystem. Just because many of us have a personal horror story to share about extracurricular sexual activities in relationships is no reason to conclude that you and your partner cant pull this off, Mac, if youre determined to.My skepticism here goes to temperament. The first serious rule breaking I did was as a teenager in Vermont. I pretended to sleep over at a friends house, when in fact we fled Brattleboro for New York City (in a teenager-driven car — terrible!) to see Simon and Garfunkels free concert in Central Park. Nothing bad happened, but nothing good happened, either. I dont recall a note of music. All of my energy was laser focused on the prospect of being caught. Some of us arent cut out for the high wire, Mac.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.You prize your relationship, so you perform a rational balancing act: weighing the (probably slim) chances of violating your agreement against the (graver) dangers to your relationship. Think again about whether you really want sex with someone other than your partner. You may not be up for the risks. If so, revisit the subject with your mate. (Or find a job that includes lots of time on the road.)AdvertisementOur 31-year-old son is a medical resident at a hospital. The choice to go into medicine was his, but we paid for his entire education — college and medical school. The problem: He hates what hes doing, the hours, the culture, etc. But he doesnt know what hed rather do instead. What is my role in advising him?AdvertisementMAGGIEBe a supportive mom (and try not to drive yourself crazy with the sunk costs of his education). Suggest he visit the career counseling office at his (undoubtedly exorbitant — sorry!) school. He surely has options for using his medical skills outside of the Greys Anatomy hospital rat race. But sadly, at a certain point, we grown-ups have to make our own decisions about what constitutes satisfying work.My wifes friend gives parties in her own honor: birthdays, life achievements, etc. Invites go out to cherished friends a month in advance, and inevitably, a week beforehand, we receive a spreadsheet assigning us specific food or liquor to bring — all signed with praying hands emojis. This has happened several times. When the spreadsheet comes, I send regrets, often with white lies. But I would rather be honest: You can afford your own parties! (Weve entertained her many times, without asking her to bring a thing.) May I be honest?ANONYMOUSAside from the praying hands emojis (which strike me as thin gratitude), the only part of this womans behavior I dont care for is her failure to mention that her parties are potlucks when she makes her invitations. You are entitled to know the terms of the deal up front. This would also spare you (white) lying.But what you call being honest sounds like a desire to correct. This woman is not a close friend. (You identify her as a pal of your wife.) And by now, you know exactly how her parties work. If you dont like them, stop saying yes. But shes not asking for your opinion. Better simply to decline her invitations and let everybody give the parties they like.From my balcony, I have a view of a postcard-perfect mountain about 100 miles away. The view would be impressive were it not for a single very tall tree about a mile away. Would it be egregious to identify the property where the tree lies and offer its owner removal at our expense, or should we leave nature as it is?CHRISIts hard to imagine a single tree ruining your view — unless its the one the Keebler elves live in? But I get how your thoughts might wander to tree removal, gazing at the (obscured) mountain from your balcony. Personally, I would find it aggressive if someone knocked on my door and asked me to remove a tree. (I love my trees. And I would want much better compensation than gratis removal.) Do you really want to walk down that road?Still, you may be able to ask in a super-charming, unentitled way. And for all we know, the owners pray nightly for someone to come around and offer to cut down their looming tree. Youll only know if you ask. But if you do, be prepared to take no for an answer very quickly, O.K.?For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or to Philip Galanes on Facebook.A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page ST8 of the New York edition with the headline: Not So Open.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Social Qs By                     
PHILIP GALANES

FEB. 15, 2018
My son goes to a kindergarten where considerable time is devoted to discussing all the glorious varieties of skin tone and how they continue to influence racial discrimination. Recently, he refused to let his best friend join a game of tag because the friend has dark skin. I reached out to the parents to apologize and ask how they would like us to discuss the issue at home and between the kids. Radio silence! We love this family and dont think our son really knows what he did. What can I do to reduce hurt and retain friends?ANONYMOUSI keep trying (and failing) to get past your ironic-sounding phrase discussing all the glorious varieties of skin tone. (Are you trying to be cute?) Because however much time was devoted to the subject at school, your son needs more: at least enough to stop segregationist games of tag. I also dont buy that he doesnt really know what he did. He is plenty old to understand the cruelty of excluding others, and given the copious classroom conversations, the special cruelty of his behavior here.News flash: Kids can be mean. Yours was awful. Dont make excuses for him. Your son clearly owes his classmate an apology. While I applaud your reaching out to these other parents for guidance, they are under no obligation to provide it. (I wouldnt be roaring to get on the phone with you, either — especially if your message downplayed your sons awareness of wrongdoing.) The good news: As an adult, you can supervise your sons apology all by yourself.Consider making it a written apology (dictated by Sonny, if needed). This may impress upon him the gravity of his error. And when the other boy brings the note home, his parents may be impressed, too. Now, if I was wrong about the ironic cast of your email (and it was merely florid), I apologize. But theres nothing children pick up on faster than cues from their parents that a problem is really no problem.AdvertisementI dated a woman for two months. We had a nice time until we spent an evening with her roommate, who dazzled me: smart, funny, empathetic — just a delight to be with! The three of us hung out two more times, and my feelings for the roommate were confirmed, though she and I never flirted. I ended it with the woman I was dating in a friendly, non-traumatic way. Its been a month now since I stopped seeing her. May I ask out the roommate? Do I need permission from the woman I was dating?The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.MICHAELIm not going to lie to you, Michael. This is no slam dunk — especially if the woman you were dating had stronger feelings than you did, or if the roommates are close. (Or if the one you were dating is prone to jealousy, but lets not get ahead of ourselves.) Start with the roommate. No need for anyone elses permission.AdvertisementCall her and tell her you were taken by her. Give a few choice examples to show why you are smitten, but dont go sticky sweet. Then say: May I take you to dinner, if that wont cause trouble with Sue? She may ask to speak with her roommate first, or refuse out of loyalty (or — gasp! — lack of interest). But if you hear any consideration, let her know youre prepared to be patient. Good things are worth waiting for, correct? A month may be too soon, but three, just right!Ive baked cakes and other goodies for family gatherings. After initially enthusiastic greetings (Oh, Jim loves German chocolate cake!), my baked goods remained largely untouched. Each time, I stayed silent and secretly seethed. Should I have said something?G.K.Im sure your sweets are magnificent! Isnt it more likely that your relatives are avoiding high-calorie desserts than delivering personal smack downs to you? And this being a free country and all, what exactly would you say? Nobody leaves this table until that cake stand is licked clean! Better to give the people what they want. Next time, try a healthy fruit salad. Or better still, a farro salad — everyone seems to be eating those.My boyfriend asked me to marry him. (Yay!) As an engagement ring, he gave me this ornate diamond ring that belonged to his grandmother (who is dead). I hate it! Now what do I do?ANONYMOUSFirst, you wait. Live with the ring for a few days to make sure that you really dislike it. It may simply be different from what you were imagining. Still hate it? (I was afraid of that.) So, go to your fiancé and tell him how happy you are to be marrying him. Then, in a calm voice, add: But Id like a simpler engagement ring. Can we go to a jeweler to see about putting this wonderful stone in a more modern setting? Keep the heirloom, revise the ring. Ill bet he agrees, and not a single feeling will be hurt.For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or to Philip Galanes on Facebook.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page ST8 of the New York edition with the headline: Kindergartner Racism.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MIKE IVES and CHARLES McDERMIDFEB. 1, 2018
 Olympic security, political strongmen and talking orcas. Heres your Morning Briefing: • The Winter Games open in South Korea next week under a shadow that rivals any in Olympic history: The threat of nuclear war.Security is already ultratight: The South mobilized tens of thousands of security personnel — including 50,000 soldiers — to protect the 100,000 spectators expected to converge each day on Pyeongchang, just 50 miles from North Korea.Even the arrival of Pyongyangs athletes hasnt convinced everyone. North Korea will cause trouble one way or another, said one analyst._____• Secrets and security.Across the world, autocratic leaders are engaging in increasingly brazen behavior — rigging votes, muzzling the press and persecuting opponents.AdvertisementThe global tide is being driven by a bewildering range of factors, among them surging populism, waves of migration crises, economic inequality and the disappearance of rebukes from the U.S.AdvertisementPresident Trump has barely paid lip service to the promotion of universal human rights, our Cairo bureau chief writes. Experts say his embrace of hard-line leaders, like President, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, shown above on a poster, has encouraged their excesses._____• A secret Republican memo that has divided Washington could be released as early as today — after President Trump paved the way for it to be declassified.The memo, written by staffers for Devin Nunes of California, above, purports to show how the F.B.I. and the Justice Department abused their authority to obtain a warrant to spy on a former Trump campaign adviser.The presidents decision came despite a chorus of warnings from national security officials. The F.B.I. warned that it had grave concerns about making the memo public._____• Who wouldnt do the same to feed a family?That was our correspondent on the front lines of the Rohingya crisis, describing how some Rohingya refugees fabricate tales of suffering to compete for relief supplies.The false narratives, while understandable, can buttress Myanmars denials of ethnic cleansing, she says.And she emphasizes that the Muslim minoritys collective suffering is all too real. Nearly 700,000 have been driven out of Myanmar in recent months by a military campaign of  murder, rape and other atrocities. Above, Rohingya children at a refugee camp in Bangladesh.Advertisement_____• Health care shake-ups.In India, the government says it will offer 100 million families up to about $7,860 a year in coverage. No word, however, on where the money would come from.And Amazon and two other U.S. companies caused a stir this week by announcing a plan to form an independent health care company for their employees.But in China, Alibaba and Tencent have been disrupting the health care sector for years, often by developing A.I. applications that aid doctors._____• Way beyond whalesong.Wikie, a killer whale, can mimic human sounds, like Amy bye-bye (and a very rude raspberry). Listen to her say hello.The research suggests that orcas learn to communicate with one another through a social process, the lead researcher said — and adds to a growing case against capturing them._____What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• HNA of China, the big Chinese conglomerate struggling under an estimated $90 billion in debt after a global shopping spree, appears to be trying to get its employees to bail it out. We obtained emails in which they were offered big returns — as high as 40 percent — to hand over money.• Investors are worried about the health of Bitfinex, a widely used Bitcoin exchange, which was recently subpoenaed by a U.S. regulatory agency. (Our columnist calls Bitcoin a bubble wrapped in techno-mysticism inside a cocoon of libertarian ideology.)• Alibabas revenue rose by more than half in the last quarter of 2017. It was the companys slowest growth rate in a year, but still better than expected, and its stock more than doubled last year.Advertisement• U.S. stocks were flat. Heres a snapshot of global markets.• A fire in Sapporo, Japan, ravaged a wooden housing facility for impoverished citizens, killing eight men and three women. [The Asahi Shimbun]• In the Philippines, the police arrested a top leader of a decades-old Communist insurgency, the latest sign that President Rodrigo Duterte is not interested in resuming peace talks. [The New York Times]• A Chinese military aircraft crashed this week during drills in Guizhou province, killing at least 12 crew members and exposing the limits of the air forces technology. [South China Morning Post]• A dozen U.S. lawmakers nominated Hong Kongs pro-democracy movement, and its student leader, Joshua Wong, for this years Nobel Peace Prize. The move is certain to provoke anger from Beijing. [Reuters]• The water supply in Cape Town, South Africa, is dangerously close to running dry. Officials say taps for the citys four million residents could be shut off in less than three months if the current drought continues. [The New York Times]• Three Danish tourists survived after driving into a river in northern Australia that was known to be full of crocodiles. They spent the night on the roof of their car. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Aiming to up your workout this weekend? Check out the rigorous gym sessions that keep the American skier Lindsey Vonn from wiping out.• Kitchen advice: Learn the best ways to cut almost anything (without hurting yourself).• Stuck waiting months for the replacement iPhone battery Apple promised? We have tips.Advertisement• Soumya Sankar Bose, a photographer in the Indian city of Kolkata, explored the psychological ramifications of Indias anti-L.G.B.T.Q. laws and culture. The result was this dreamlike, melancholic portrait series.• Art belongs to life, our film critic writes. So if you think that Woody Allen is guilty of sexual abuse, should you stop watching his movies?• The Times, in other words: Heres are links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Today is Groundhog Day, and if youre unfamiliar with this annual American event — its exactly as strange as it sounds.The groundhog, for its part, is a simple creature. A close relative of the squirrel, it digs burrows and can reach a furry 15 pounds. Its known in some areas as a whistle pig, for its short, sharp cries, but more commonly, as a woodchuck.Thats where the days simplicities end. The tradition of predicting weather by when animals wake from hibernation goes back centuries. It arrived in the U.S. with European immigrants and — though there are many Groundhog Day events — the most celebrated ceremony is in Punxsutawney, Pa.Each Feb. 2, a groundhog named Punxsutawney Phil emerges from his winters nap at a place called Gobblers Knob. (In fact, hes looking for a mate.) Tradition holds that if Phil sees his shadow, it means six more weeks of winter. No shadow, and an early spring is on the way.Its all in fun, of course. And thats a good thing for the poor groundhog: Since 1887, according to one tally, hes been right only 39 percent of the time._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Social Qs By                     
PHILIP GALANES

FEB. 8, 2018
My husband and I fought (again) today about something that happened eight years ago, when we were newly married. He was devastated that I tried to have a cordial relationship with his ex-wife (who wronged him). He felt betrayed that I didnt mirror his feelings toward her, and abandoned by my attempts to create a workable relationship for their children. Frankly, I can no more apologize and have a hand-holding cry with him than fly to the moon. I am emotionally detached, and he is wildly demonstrative. How to bridge this gap?S. C.Creating categories can be comforting, even when they are utter nonsense: the four humors of the ancient Greeks, for instance, or the blood-type diet. Your husband is not upset with you because of your incompatible temperaments. No, hes distraught because you are not (and I suspect, never were) sorry for your behavior. Any apology you made would be unsatisfying. You feel no actual remorse.Instead, you made a pragmatic call about the best way to deal with his ex-wife. (You rationalize it still, and I may agree with you.) But deciding how to interact with his ex, early in your marriage, was mostly your husbands call. You robbed him of that choice, probably accidentally, but you seem not to have acknowledged your mistake.Give him his due now. Say, Im sorry I overstepped with Susan, and even sorrier for dragging my heels in apologizing sincerely. I promise that I have your back. If thats too demonstrative for you, get yourself to a therapist. But if you make an honest go of it, you may be amazed at how nicely your different temperaments align.AdvertisementMy boyfriend and I are in high school. My parents monitor my social media like hawks, which is annoying. His dont, but I wish they did. Lets say he goes shopping for new sunglasses. Hell post 15 pictures of himself on Snapchat in different pairs — which makes him seem pretty vain. And its dangerous too, because it gives people the wrong idea about him. Should I say something?The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.GINAWhen I was a kid, happily singing along with my mother to Judy Garland Live at Carnegie Hall, my brother blared scary rock music from his bedroom upstairs. I remember one song he played, over and over, by the J. Geils Band, about a guy who is deeply distraught that his former girlfriend posed for a naked centerfold in a magazine. Danger is relative, Gina.AdvertisementPosting 15 selfies to land the right sunglasses does seem over-the-top, but much less dangerous than posting sexually suggestive pictures — or those depicting substance abuse or other potentially harmful behaviors. And, Snap stories disappear! If you are troubled by your boyfriends vanity, ask: Do you think you may be overdoing it with the selfies? But if hes like many people on social media, he doesnt. And hopefully, his followers are guiding him to wise decisions in eyewear.When I lost my job and (sigh!) had to leave Manhattan for an affordable city, a friend sent me one of his photographs, beautifully framed, as a housewarming gift. Its nice, but not something I would have chosen, and its never made its way onto my walls. Four years later, I am clearing the house of everything I dont truly love. In doing so, I found a wonderful photo that is badly framed. Would it be terrible to take it from its bad frame and (to save money) use the one from my friends gift?ANONYMOUSYou go, Marie Kondo! Take your friends photo out of its frame and replace it with one that brings you joy. We give each other gifts as tokens of affection, not to control what pals hang on their walls. After you thanked him for his kindness, you are free to do what you like with its physical embodiment. (And if your friend hasnt visited in four years, the coast seems even clearer.)Throughout my graduate school career, my faculty mentor helped me research, publish and present at conferences. Id like to thank her, and since weve gotten to know each other, I want to make it personal: making her dinner or getting pedicures together. Trouble is, she works like crazy, has two young kids and lives 40 miles from campus. I dont want to inconvenience her with something meant to show gratitude. Any ideas (other than a gift card)?JULIAFear not! I have never given a gift card, and I am certainly not starting with your beloved Ms. Chips. Given that shes a working mom (with unknown child care), lets go with a daytime event — and picking up on your lead, one where you spend time together. How about a fancy (or in the absence of cash, delicious) lunch? Ask her what kind of food she likes and treat her to the tastiest version you can afford. Make it close to campus to avoid adding to her 40-mile commute. And voilà: a delicious thank you, with some savory bonding time thrown in.For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or to Philip Galanes on Facebook.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page ST8 of the New York edition with the headline: Old Battle Resurfaces.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By AUSTIN RAMZYFEB. 13, 2018
HONG KONG — Tonga began cleaning up on Tuesday from the most powerful storm to hit the South Pacific island nation in at least 60 years, which flattened its Parliament building, damaged houses and left thousands without power.Tropical Cyclone Gita was measured as a Category 4 storm, with sustained winds of up to 145 miles per hour, when it crossed south of Tongatapu, Tongas main island, late Monday.The storm knocked down the kingdoms century-old Parliament building and tore off roofs in the capital city of Nukualofa.It was a terrifying night, Graham Kenna, an adviser to Tongas National Emergency Management Office, told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Were on the third floor of one of the safest buildings in Nukualofa and the building was shaking and getting pounded by debris from missing roofs.AdvertisementOne man died of a heart attack while being rushed to a hospital, and the storm may have contributed to his death, a police spokeswoman, Sia Adams told Radio New Zealand. More than 30 people on Tongatapu were injured, three of them seriously, she said.
            Tropical Cyclone #Gita hit #Tonga today with the strength of a Category 4 hurricane, the #Himawari8 geostationary satellite captured the path of the storm over the past 24 hours. Learn more about our international satellite partners in orbit here: https://t.co/SMSgTCxp0U pic.twitter.com/oefCA1fzZR The storm was the most powerful cyclone to pass so close to Tongas main island in at least 60 years, Britains Met Office said.The government of New Zealand announced that it was sending a C-130 military aircraft with rescue supplies. About 5,700 people had sought shelter in evacuation centers, Winston Peters, New Zealands foreign affairs minister, said in a statement.AdvertisementInitial assessments indicate there has been extensive damage to homes in Nukualofa and some damage to commercial buildings, he said.Pita Taufatofua, the Tongan Olympic athlete who was the countrys flag-bearer at the Pyeongchang Games opening ceremony on Friday, said on Facebook that he had yet to hear whether friends and family were safe. I wish I could be there right now to help, he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Gita continued to the west on Tuesday and retained its powerful Category 4 winds. It was expected to pass the nation of Fiji during the night, but the eye of the storm was forecast to be much farther from population centers than when it hit Tonga.A Tongan lawmaker, Lord Fusitua, told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation that it was not clear where Parliament would next meet.Successive legislatures over the years have suggested building a new Parliament House and I guess thatll be a necessity now, he said.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
A Good Appetite By                     
 MELISSA CLARK
 
FEB. 9, 2018
Back when I was in high school, there was a cafe in SoHo I loved for its over-the-top sweets.Billowing cakes towered over the counter, the cream cheese frosting between the layers thicker than the cakes themselves. They had golden coconut macaroons as big as my palm, and soup bowls full of rice pudding, mounded with thick, cinnamon-flecked whipped cream.But to my teenage self, the best treats of all were saucer-size dark chocolate cookies loaded with white chocolate chunks and pecans. Fudgy in the center, with a brittle, crackling crust, they were sort of like the corner squares from pan of brownies — both chewy and crisp.Even better, any white chocolate bits that seeped through the cookie batter and hit the baking pan caramelized, turning butterscotch-rich. Who cares if the cookies were sweet enough to make my gums ache? I loved them fully and completely.This recipe is a more grown-up interpretation.All the components are there — the chewy chocolate cookie filled with nuts and caramelized white chocolate. But Ive tempered the sweetness by mixing white chocolate chips with bittersweet chocolate chips, and by melting bittersweet chocolate into the batter instead of the usual semisweet.This does mean youll have to track down chocolate with a high percentage of cocoa solids, ideally 60 percent to 72 percent. The higher the percentage of cocoa solids a chocolate bar has, the less sugar it contains. This isnt going to make a huge difference with a small amount of chocolate, but when a recipe calls for a whopping half-pound, sweetness level matters.AdvertisementIf you cant find bittersweet chocolate, you could reduce the amount of granulated sugar in the recipe. But keep in mind that sugar not only adds sweetness, it also contributes to the chewiness factor. Youll still get a great cookie, but a less glossy, brownielike one.AdvertisementSpeaking of chewy, another change I made from the original cookies was to add dried cherries. The sweet-tart pockets remind me of the raisins in a Chunky candy bar, though I suppose that doesnt seem very restrained or grown up. But its very, very good. Dried fruit haters can just leave the cherries out, or substitute more nuts or chocolate chips.And cookie eaters of all ages and predilections be advised: Dunking these in your beverage of choice will always be the right and entirely over-the-top way to go.Recipe: Chocolate Cookies With White Chocolate and CherriesFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Chocolate Cookies Only a Bit Over the Top.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 20, 2018
Good Tuesday. Heres what were watching:• Judge deals AT&T a setback in fight with Justice Department• Billionaire investor Steven A. Cohen lost a bid to seal a sex discrimination lawsuit against his investment firm.• Corporate leaders are discussing whether the finance industry can help regulate gun sales.• Walmarts fourth-quarter earnings missed expectations.• Facebook is still facing blowback for an executives tweets about Russian electoral meddling.• Qualcomms revised bid for NXP raises questions about Broadcoms pursuit of the company.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.The telecom company had asked for internal communications between the White House and the Justice Department regarding AT&Ts $85.4 billion acquisition of Time Warner.AdvertisementOn Tuesday, a judge ruled that AT&T was not entitled to those documents, saying the companies had not made a credible showing that they have been especially singled out.AdvertisementAT&T has argued that the Justice Department has unfairly singled out its proposed merger with Time Warner partly to stay in favor with the White House. President Trump has been a vocal critic of Time Warners news network, CNN, and said before the election that the deal should be stopped.The bigger pictureCecilia Kang of the NYT: The decision puts a crimp in AT&Ts defense for its $85 billion proposed merger with Time Warner. And it is a big win for the Justice Department, which would like to avoid attention on the role of politics in its decision to stop the deal. The merger would transform the media landscape by combining a television and movie giant with one of the nations biggest media distributors.The trial is set to begin on March 19.For the first time, and after much protest, public companies must report their employees median pay and compare it with that of the chief executive. The Dodd-Frank Act, passed nearly eight years ago, required the disclosure, and firms are now disclosing it in proxy reports for 2017.Companies, lobbyists and some compensation experts spent years criticizing the rule, arguing that it revealed little about pay trends and was of little use to shareholders. The Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal-leaning think tank, on Tuesday noted that Honeywell was the first United States corporation to release the ratio. The companys C.E.O., Darius Adamczyk, had a total pay package of $16.8 million in 2017, which was 333 times the pay of the median employee.The rule allows certain companies to exclude some foreign employees from the calculation of the ratio. Honeywell excluded workers from several countries where pay is most likely lower than in the United States. The 333:1 ratio that Honeywell is reporting most likely would be even wider if Honeywell took all its workers into account, the Institute said.— Peter EavisA federal judge in Manhattan, in a brief order, rejected a motion filed by lawyers for Mr. Cohen and his firm, Point72 Asset Management, to temporarily seal a complaint filed last week by Lauren Bonner, an employee of the firm. Mr. Cohens lawyer had asked the judge to seal the lawsuit, which alleges the firm underpays female employees and fosters a hostile workplace for women, pending the resolution of another motion to push the matter into arbitration.Judge Analisa Torres of Federal District Court in Manhattan said the request to seal the entire complaint was not narrowly tailored and was inconsistent with the presumption of public access to court records.Lawyers for Mr. Cohen had sought to seal the order because it contained details of other employees compensation packages. The lawsuit also detailed a testosterone-fueled boys club atmosphere in which men commented frequently on womens bodies and belittled their abilities.Advertisement— Matthew GoldsteinAndrew writes:My latest column, on how banks and credit card companies could restrict support of gun sales in the wake of last weeks school shooting, has stirred up chatter in the business world. Ive heard from people throughout corporate America overnight since it was published. Many said privately that they want to look at what they can do.More from the column:There is precedent for credit card issuers to ban the purchase of completely legal products. Just this month, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Bank of America banned the use of their cards to buy Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.To be clear: Those three banks wont let you use your credit card to buy Bitcoin, but they will happily let you use it to buy an AR-15-style semiautomatic rifle — the same kind of gun used in mass shootings in Parkland; Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; Las Vegas; and Sutherland Springs, Tex.Elsewhere in gun regulation: President Trump expressed some openness to tightening background checks.The United States Treasury Department is flooding the market with debt. On Tuesday, the government sold $179 billion worth of debt.Bloomberg reports:Concerns about the U.S. borrowing cap had forced the Treasury to trim the total amount of bills it had outstanding, but thats no longer a problem and the government is now busy ramping up issuance. Financing estimates from January show that the Treasury expects to issue $441 billion in net marketable debt in the current quarter and the bulk of that is likely to be in the short-term market.Thats been a regular question since the tax overhaul was signed into law last year. Analysts at Goldman Sachs in a note over the weekend shed some light on the answer.• Companies have pointed to a modest increase in investment as one destination for the incremental cash flow from tax reform. Consensus estimates for 2018 capex have increased by $17 billion (3 percent) since the passage of tax reform.• Last month 39 S.&P. 500 companies increased their dividend, while for the first since 2012 no companies cut their payments.• Buying back shares remains a priority of companies, Goldman writes. Over the past 2 ½ months, S.&P. 500 firms have announced $171 billion of buybacks, $67 billion of which has come this year, a 22% increase from the same period in 2017.In the same note, Goldman also took a closer look at this earnings season.By many measures, corporate earnings are the strongest they have been in the past decade. Goldman points out:• Companies in the S.&P. 500 are set to report that profit grew 15 percent last quarter. Thats the fastest pace since 2011.Advertisement• The percentage of companies beating estimates is at its highest level since 2010. The percentage beating sales forecast is at its highest since 2004.But the stock reaction to S.&P. 500 companies either beating or missing expectations has been muted relative to history.The reason? Investors are more focused on tax reform and earnings forecasts for 2018, Goldman writes. Analysts have raised their 2018 earnings estimates for companies in the S.&P. 500 by 7 percent so far this year.Some contextHigher profit margins because of the lower corporate tax rate are driving much of the increase in this years earnings forecast. A point that becomes clearer by looking at 2018 sales estimates. Analysts have increased their revenue forecasts by only one percentage point and much of that increase comes from higher oil prices boosting forecasts for energy companies.Remember when the company said that it was changing its name from Long Island Iced Tea and shift its corporate focus to virtual currencies?Well, new developments have come up:• Long Blockchain has named a new C.E.O., Shamyl Malik.• It plans to spin off its beverage division into the publicly traded Long Island Brand Beverages by June 30, and the companys last C.E.O., Philip Thomas, will be on the new business board.• And last week, Nasdaq informed Long Blockchain that it planned to delist the company because its stock price had traded too low. Long Blockchains market cap as of this morning was $31.9 million, below Nasdaqs threshold, after shares in the company tumbled amid the great crypto crash of early 2018. The company is appealing.— Michael de la MercedHeres why the companys shares are down 10percent — their biggest fall since 2015 — after its fourth-quarter earnings report:• The company earned $1.33 a share, while analysts had expected $1.37.• Operating income fell 28 percent, to $4.5 billion, thanks to charges tied to the closing of Sams Club stores.Advertisement• E-commerce sales rose 23 percent during the quarter, a slower pace than in previous quarters.• Full-year sales growth expectations went down by close to half, to 1.5 percent to 2 percent, in part because of Sams Club and a curb on the sales of tobacco products.What the companys chief, Doug McMillon, said:Were making real progress putting our unique assets to work to serve customers in all the ways they want to shop.— Michael de la MercedDays after Rob Goldman, its vice president of advertising, tried to clear up misconceptions about the companys role in the 2016 presidential election, Facebook still finds itself in hot water. President Trump took the tweets as proof that Russia didnt try to help him win, while critics said they contradicted Robert Muellers indictment.Mr. Goldman apologized in an internal Facebook post. But his tweets — which contained inaccuracies — suggested that Facebook executives still dont understand how central the company was to Russias misinformation campaign, according to Nicholas Thomson of Wired.More from Kevin Roose of the NYT:In real-world terms, a part of Facebook still sees itself as the bank that got robbed, rather than the architect who designed a bank with no safes, and no alarms or locks on the doors, and then acted surprised when burglars struck.Josh Hendler, the former head of tech for the Democratic National Committee, told the WSJ, It was an almost perfect example of Silicon Valley overconfidence and lack of sophistication when it comes to politics.The tech flyaround• One sign of how highly Google and Facebook value A.I.: The researchers sit near their C.E.O.s. (NYT)• Is Googles ad blocker for the Chrome browser good for the web? (NYT)• Washingtons mayor, Muriel Bowser, toured San Francisco to promote her citys tech bona fides. (WaPo)• And Washington has granted Elon Musks Boring Company permission to do a little digging. (WaPo)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Snapchat and Nikes partnership during the N.B.A. All-Star Weekend highlighted the social networks future in e-commerce. (Recode)Advertisement• Sony is planning an A.I.-based ride-hailing system for Tokyo. (Reuters)With Qualcomm raising its offer for NXP to $127.50 a share from $110, it may have finally found a way to beat back its persistent and unwanted suitor. Broadcom has said a higher NXP bid would be a deal-breaker (as of this morning, however, Michael hears that it isnt clear whether it will walk away).The new offer may have come at an opportune time: I.S.S., the influential proxy adviser, recommended that Qualcomm shareholders vote for four of Broadcoms six board nominees. (But that too falls short of Broadcoms goals. The companys C.E.O., Hock Tan, has said he would walk away if the entire slate wasnt elected.)A question: Elliott Management, which campaigned against the $110-a-share offer, is on board with the new one. But will Qualcomms shareholders accept paying more for NXP?It and other hedge funds stand to be big winners from Qualcomms raised offer.Bloomberg points out that Elliott, Soroban Capital Partners, Pentwater Capital Management and Farallon Capital Management own 47 percent of NXPs shares.The deals flyaround• Albertsons plans to buy Rite Aid to better compete with Amazon, Walmart and Walgreens. (Albertsons)• BHP Billitons C.E.O. will meet with Elliott Management to discuss changing its corporate strategy. (Bloomberg)• SoftBank wants a seat on Swiss Res board as part of any minority investment. But Patrick Jenkins of the FT ponders whether Masa Son can become a digital Warren Buffett.• The marketing company Engine Shop has bought T Burns Sports Group, the consultancy founded by Terrence Burns, who worked on eight winning Olympic and World Cup campaigns, including Pyeongchangs. (Sports Pro Media)Advertisement• How Spotifys privately traded shares could influence its direct listing. (WSJ)• The head of Arcadia, which owns Topshop, denied being in talks to sell it to a Chinese textile giant. (FT)• ValueAct has bought 5.4 percent of Merlin Entertainments, which owns Madame Tussauds, as U.S. activists continue to seek targets in Europe. (FT)• Temenos of Switzerland is near a deal to buy Fidessa, a British maker of financial software, for more than £1.3 billion. (FT)• President Trump has endorsed the Senate campaign of Mitt Romney, whom he once called one of the dumbest and worst candidates in the history of Republican politics.• Public support for the tax overhaul is rising, according to a survey by the NYT and SurveyMonkey. It has also made BlackRock more optimistic about stock prices. Republicans are divided over whether the Office Management and Budget should get involved in tax rules.• The recent budget deal takes a step toward a federal rescue for as many as 200 multi-employer pension plans. (NYT)• The Office of Financial Research, Washingtons financial storm forecaster, is foundering. (WSJ)• How Michael Cohen, Mr. Trumps longtime personal lawyer, used intimidation, hush money and a top tabloid publisher to protect his client. (NYT)Advertisement• The Trump administration is continuing to dismantle Obama-era L.G.B.T. policies. (Politico)• The California assemblywoman Cristina Garcia, a leading voice for #MeToo, has been accused of sexually harassing staffers. (WaPo)An estimated $201.7 million in three-day ticket sales in the U.S., and $235 million in four-day sales. The fifth-biggest U.S. box office opening ever, not adjusted for inflation. An estimated $387 million in sales worldwide. (Oh, and a soundtrack thats leading Billboards chart.)Has Disneys latest blockbuster erased the notion that there arent big audiences for movies with largely black casts? More from Brooks Barnes of the NYT:Richard Gelfond, chief executive of IMAX, the large-format movie exhibitor, which played Black Panther in more than 60 countries, championed Disney for delivering content that is compelling on its face but also bridges the gap between different cultures, and ultimately is a reflection of the shared values of moviegoers all over the world.Random musings (spoilers ahead!): What effect would Wakanda opening itself up have for global trade balances? What would happen to mining stocks? How would its immigration policies work if the countrys ruler says, In times of crisis, the wise build bridges? Does Wakanda have its own blockchain technology?Investors have been held hostage until they paid Bitcoin or Ether ransoms worth millions of dollars, as criminals increasingly target at the crypto-rich. The worst part: Theres no way to halt or reverse a Bitcoin transfer.Solutions discussed at a recent conference included hiring security, setting up duress wallets to fool hostage takers, and keeping Bitcoin fortunes secret.Elsewhere in virtual currencies: Chinas crackdown on crypto hasnt dented investor enthusiasm there. Prime Shipping Foundation, which struck the first freight deal settled in Bitcoin, plans an initial coin offering And retail investors would suffer most if the digital money markets collapsed, according to S. & P. Global Ratings.Where Bitcoin is today: About $11,490, according to CoinMarketCap.Critics corner• Mark Carney of the Bank of England says Bitcoin has failed as a currency. (Reuters)• Paul Singer of Elliott Management called virtual currencies one of the most brilliant scams in history. (Business Insider)Advertisement• Sarah Tavel of Benchmark thinks digital money has a bright future but many I.C.O.s are complete scams. (Recode)• John Flint, HSBCs incoming C.E.O., is a virtual currency skeptic too. (Bloomberg)• Deutsche Bank is cutting 250 to 500 investment banking jobs, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• Bernie Sinniah, Citibanks global head of foreign exchange solutions, is stepping down after 38 years at the bank. Hell be replaced by Sam Hewson. (FT)In this case, we were not talking about politics. We were talking about the basic values of the country.— Ken Frazier, the C.E.O. of Merck, on why he spoke out against Mr. Trumps unwillingness to condemn the white nationalist attack in Charlottesville, Va.• HSBCs full-year results missed expectations, partly because of the collapses of Steinhoff International in South Africa and Carillion in Britain. (WSJ)• Private equity bosses face an uncomfortable choice between becoming corporations, potentially bolstering their valuations, and staying as partnerships to keep taxes lower. (FT)• WeWorks C.E.O. doesnt just want to lease communal offices. He wants to transform how people work, live and play. (NYT)• Britains prime minister, Theresa May, is considering a contingency plan that would involve holding back billions of pounds in Brexit payments if the E.U. does not give Britain the trade deal it wants, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• The European Central Bank has asked Latvia to freeze payments to its third-largest lender, ABLV Bank, after the U.S. Treasury Department said it may label the firm a money launderer for North Korea. (Bloomberg)• Fox News is planning a stand-alone subscription service, available without a cable package. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By TIFFANY HSUFEB. 9, 2018
L .L. Bean is no longer interested in replacing the ratty sweatshirts or worn-down boots you bought from the company decades ago.The purveyor of outdoor products, famous for its 100 percent satisfaction guarantee, said that a growing number of customers had abused the policy by treating it as a lifetime product-replacement program. The retailer will immediately begin enforcing stricter rules for shoppers seeking to exchange items or obtain or get refunds.Under the new policy, consumers will have a year to make returns, and will be required to provide proof of purchase, L. L. Bean said in a Facebook post on Friday. The company, which is based in Freeport, Me., said it would work with customers to provide a fair solution if products showed defects after the return window had closed.Shawn O. Gorman, L. L. Beans executive chairman and a great-grandson of Leon Leonwood Bean, the companys founder, wrote in the post that the changes would affect a small percentage of returns and would have no impact for the vast majority of customers.AdvertisementL. L. Beans decades-old refund-and-replacement policy, one of the most generous in the retail industry, had increasingly been abused, Mr. Gorman wrote.AdvertisementA small, but growing number of customers has been interpreting our guarantee well beyond its original intent, he wrote. Some people had sought refunds for heavily worn products used over many years, he added. Others seek refunds for products that have been purchased through third parties, such as at yard sales.Customers reacted with both support and surprise.As a lifetime loyal customer Im surprised you didnt do this sooner, a Facebook user, Joe Gagne, wrote in a post on the companys page. Ive been embarrassed for your associates when Ive been in line seeing customers take advantage of the guarantee. Anyone who says they wont shop at Beans anymore because of this change isnt the kind of customer you want anyway.But Jen Tedesco, a homemaker in upstate New York, said she was really disappointed with L. L. Bean and what she said was a one size fits all, super-stringent policy that is going to alienate customers.She said her family, which includes three children, was willing to spend more at L. L. Bean than at Walmart or Target because of the expectation that the products would last longer.We make good money, but were not rich and have to make very financially responsible decisions about where we spend our money, she said. When Im spending $70 for kids snow pants, I need to know that the company is putting enough care, quality and effort into them that theyre not going to break 14 months down the road.As shoppers began to drift toward e-commerce, many retailers tried to retain them by offering extended return policies with extremely forgiving terms.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But companies often found that accepting returns came at a high cost.The retail industry had $3.5 trillion in sales last year, with 10 percent of that, or $351 billion, lost to returns, according to a report from the research firm Appriss Retail. Of those returns, an estimated 6.5 percent, or $22.8 billion worth of merchandise, were thought to include shoplifted goods, items bought with stolen money, products backed by counterfeit receipts, and other forms of fraud or abuse.A former L. L. Bean employee, Jessica Pikowski, confirmed Mr. Gormans view that many customers had abused the returns policy. Ms. Pikowski said she had worked at an L.L. Bean store in Danbury, Conn., during breaks from college, as recently as 2015. She said that up to 70 percent of the returns she and her colleagues processed seemed questionable.AdvertisementShe said one man had brought a garbage bag full of clothes that looked and smelled as if they had barely survived a fire. He left with a gift card worth hundreds of dollars.Most of the people who used the policy abused it, Ms. Pikowski said. And we werent allowed to confront them about it.Improper returns cost states up to $1.4 billion in lost sales tax revenue and hurt retail employees, according to Appriss.L. L. Beans turnaround is similar to a change in policy at the outdoor retailer REI. In 2013, after people bragged of taking used REI products bought at swap meets to the store for cash refunds, the company began requiring customers to make their returns within a year of purchase (with some exceptions: outdoor electronic items have a 90-day return window, but products with manufacturing defects can be returned anytime).Michelle Zaleski of Marlborough, Mass., said she worried that the new L.L. Bean policy could mean the company was reducing the quality of its products. She said she had recently bought a pair of $200 L. L. Bean boots, which she said were already falling apart.Ms. Zaleski said she and her family went out of their way to visit L. L. Bean stores and had spent $3,000 on the companys products over the holidays. In 15 years of regular buying from the company, she said, she had returned fewer than a dozen items, including one vest, one jacket and several backpacks with broken handles.L. L. Bean to us is a quality name, and that means they should stand by their word, Ms. Zaleski said. I liked the idea that they would withstand my kids tearing them apart.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2018, on Page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: L. L. Bean, Citing Abuse,  Tightens Its Return Policy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byGray MatterBy Eric KlinenbergLast month, Britain appointed its first minister for loneliness, who is charged with tackling what Prime Minister Theresa May called the sad reality of modern life.Public-health leaders immediately praised the idea — and for good reason. In recent decades, researchers have discovered that loneliness left untreated is not just psychically painful; it also can have serious medical consequences. Rigorous epidemiological studies have linked loneliness and social isolation to heart disease, cancer, depression, diabetes and suicide. Vivek Murthy, the former United States surgeon general, has written that loneliness and social isolation are associated with a reduction in life span similar to that caused by smoking 15 cigarettes a day and even greater than that associated with obesity.But is loneliness, as many political officials and pundits are warning, a growing health epidemic?I dont believe so, nor do I believe it helps anyone to describe it that way. Social disconnection is a serious matter, yet if we whip up a panic over its prevalence and impact, were less likely to deal with it properly.Anxiety about loneliness is a common feature of modern societies. Today, two major causes of loneliness seem possible. One is that societies throughout the world have embraced a culture of individualism. More people are living alone, and aging alone, than ever. Neoliberal social policies have turned workers into precarious free agents, and when jobs disappear, things fall apart fast. Labor unions, civic associations, neighborhood organizations, religious groups and other traditional sources of social solidarity are in steady decline. Increasingly, we all feel that were on our own.The other possible cause is the rise of communications technology, including smartphones, social media and the internet. A decade ago, companies like Facebook, Apple and Google pledged that their products would help create meaningful relationships and communities. Instead, weve used the media system to deepen existing divisions, at both the individual and group levels. We may have thousands of friends and followers on Facebook and Instagram, but when it comes to human relationships, it turns out theres no substitute for building them the old-fashioned way, in person.In light of these two trends, its easy to believe were experiencing an epidemic of loneliness and isolation. Surprisingly, though, the best data do not actually show drastic spikes in either loneliness or social isolation.The main evidence for rising isolation comes from a widely reported sociology journal article claiming that in 2004, one in four Americans had no one in their life they felt they could confide in, compared with one in 10 during the 1980s. But that study turned out to be based on faulty data, and other research shows that the portion of Americans without a confidant is about the same as it has long been. Although one of the authors has distanced himself from the paper (saying, I no longer think its reliable), scholars, journalists and policymakers continue to cite it.The other data on loneliness are complicated and often contradictory, in part because there are so many different ways of measuring the phenomenon. But its clear that the loneliness statistics cited by those who say we have an epidemic are outliers. For example, one set of statistics comes from a study that counted as lonely people who said they felt left out or isolated, or lacked companionship — even just some of the time. Thats an exceedingly low bar, and surely not one wed want doctors or policymakers to use in their work.One reason we need to be careful about how we measure and respond to loneliness is that, as the University of Chicago psychologist John Cacioppo argues, an occasional and transitory feeling of loneliness can be healthy and productive. Its a biological signal to ourselves that we need to build stronger social bonds.Professor Cacioppo has spent much of his career documenting the dangers of loneliness. But its notable that he relies on more measured statistics in his own scientific papers than the statistics described above. One of his articles, from last year, reports that around 19 percent of older Americans said they had felt lonely for much of the week before they were surveyed, and that in Britain about 6 percent of adults said they felt lonely all or most of the time. Those are worrisome numbers, but they are quite similar to the numbers reported in Britain in 1948, when about 8 percent of older adults said they often or always felt lonely, and to those in previous American studies as well.Professor Cacioppo is one of the leading voices advocating for better treatment of loneliness. But, as he has written, to call it an epidemic of loneliness risks having it relegated to the advice columns.In particular, overstating the problem can make it harder to make sure we are focusing on the people who need help the most. When Britain announced its new ministry, officials insisted that everyone, young or old, was at risk of loneliness. Yet the research tells us something more specific. In places like the United States and Britain, its the poor, unemployed, displaced and migrant populations that stand to suffer most from loneliness and isolation. Their lives are unstable, and so are their relationships. When they get lonely, they are the least able to get adequate social or medical support.I dont believe we have a loneliness epidemic. But millions of people are suffering from social disconnection. Whether or not they have a minister for loneliness, they deserve more attention and help than were offering today.Eric Klinenberg is a professor of sociology at New York University and the author of Going Solo: The Extraordinary Rise and Surprising Appeal of Living Alone.AdvertisementBy IVAN NECHEPURENKO and MICHAEL SCHWIRTZFEB. 17, 2018
[Updated March 15, 2018]ST. PETERSBURG, Russia – Operating from St. Petersburg, they churned out falsehoods on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. They promoted Donald J. Trump and denigrated Hillary Clinton. They stole the identities of American citizens. They organized political rallies in several states, and hired a Clinton impersonator for one event, in West Palm Beach, Fla.In February, 13 Russians were indicted by a federal grand jury in Washington on fraud and other charges, and on Thursday the Trump administration imposed sanctions against the operatives, freezing any assets they held in the United States and barring American businesses and individuals from doing business with them.• Two Russian former trolls describe the breakneck pace to create false content.• An army of well-paid trolls tried to wreak havoc by disseminating disinformation on the internet and in American communities.• Russian trolls ccrept into the Trump campaign via Facebook messages.• How do bots and trolls work to infiltrate social media platforms and influence U.S. elections?Details of their roles in a three-year campaign to disrupt American democracy have emerged from the indictment, other records, interviews and press accounts.A former teenage champion cross-country skier who was later imprisoned for robbery, Mr. Prigozhin started a hot-dog business as the Soviet Union collapsed and eventually branched into convenience stores and restaurants. He received catering contracts and threw lavish state banquets. He has played host to world leaders like George W. Bush and Jacques Chirac. He developed a close relationship with President Vladimir V. Putin, and has been derogatively called Putins cook.AdvertisementAccording to the indictment, he controlled two companies that financed the operations of the Internet Research Agency, a shadowy troll farm. Created in 2013, it began a so-called translator project in 2014 that targeted Americans and pursued information warfare against the United States. It employed hundreds of people and, by the summer of 2016, was spending $1.2 million a month.AdvertisementIn the past five years, Mr. Prigozhin has received government contracts worth $3.1 billion. Lately, he has branched out into areas like recruiting contract soldiers to fight overseas and establishing a popular online news service that pushes a nationalist viewpoint, making him even more indispensable to Mr. Putin. Mr. Prigozhin, 56, declined several interview requests from The New York Times in recent months.One sign of his connection to the trolls, according to the indictment: In what appeared to be something of an inside joke, people working for the Internet Research Agency paid an American to hold a sign outside the White House — Happy 55th Birthday, Dear Boss — to celebrate Mr. Prigozhins birthday (June 1) in 2016.Mr. Bystrov is a retired St. Petersburg police colonel who, according to the indictment, joined the company in February 2014 and became its highest-ranking official. He also led shell entities that were used to conceal its activities, including one called Glavset, a so-called database and information company. It shared an address — 55 Savushkina Street — with the Internet Research Agency. (The troll farm has since moved to Optikov Street, according to the local press.)The troll farm soon drew notice in Russia: news outlets reported that it employed 250 people in 12-hour shifts to provide a round-the-clock flow of pro-Kremlin posts and comments, praising Mr. Putin and excoriating President Barack Obama and President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine. Monthly salaries ranged from $1,100 for a junior analyst to $1,400 for a blogger to $4,200 a month for senior management.Mr. Bystrov, who is believed to be 59, has avoided reporters and declined interview requests.A young tech entrepreneur, Mr. Burchik, 31, joined the company in October 2013 and became its executive director, the No. 2 official, by March 2014, according to the indictment.According to online records, he registered a company in 2009 called Add1.ru that was behind a 2014 hoax. In that hoax, a young woman in aviator sunglasses calling herself Zoe Foreman spent hours spamming politicians and journalists about a horrific — and fictitious — chemical plant explosion in Louisiana.I have heard of it, but I dont work in this organization, he told the journalist Adrian Chen, who wrote about the troll farm in 2015 for The New York Times Magazine. He said he had bought and sold many internet domains and didnt remember them all.AdvertisementMr. Burchik also won government contracts to publish local municipal newspapers, organize lectures and do some video reports.Throughout the troll farms operations to interfere in American politics, including the election, Burchik was a manager involved in operational planning, infrastructure and personnel, according to the indictment.The business news website RBC reported on Friday that Mr. Burchik claimed not to know English well enough to understand what he had been accused of. If a few hundred million Americans are so worried about the activities of a regular Russian small-business man from the IT-sphere doing website development, then it seems the situation in the country is completely grave, he said.Mr. Burchik told Komsomolskaya Pravda, a Russian tabloid, that he was not concerned about being detained while traveling abroad. I love my country. In Russia there are many beautiful places where you can go, he said.
                Thirteen Russian nationals have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process through inflammatory social media posts and organized political rallies.            Mr. Burchik has worked on several small government projects in St. Petersburg. In 2015 he was awarded a contract worth about $20,000 to develop and publish a newspaper called Dvortsovy Ukrug, for the administration of one of St. Petersburgs municipal districts, according to government documents.That same year, another municipal district government awarded him a similar contract to prepare a film about its activities. And in 2012, he won a $4,500 contract for organizing a program for promoting tolerance and prevention of drug addiction for local schools.Ms. Bogacheva and Ms. Krylova obtained visas to visit the United States in 2014 under false pretenses for the purposes of collecting intelligence to inform the organizations operatives, according to the indictment. They are said to have embarked on what amounted to a three-week reconnaissance tour, visiting California, Colorado, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, New York and Texas. Along the way, they bought SIM cards, cameras and drop phones and discussed evacuation scenarios and other security measures.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.According to the indictment, Ms. Bogacheva oversaw the data analysis group for the translator project. A woman with the same name was listed in 2013 on the website of ITMO, a prestigious science university in St. Petersburg, as a doctoral candidate. She worked there from 2011 to 2014, as an engineer in the eScience Research Institute, according to a university spokeswoman. Many of the schools graduates have gone on to work for the Russian government or for large tech companies.Ms. Bogacheva also owns IT Debugger, a company that says it has worked with difficult clients.Ms. Krylova became the No. 3 person at the troll farm, according to the indictment. According to what appears to be her LinkedIn profile, she is a graduate of the Moscow State University of Printing Arts, where she studied with the faculty of advertising and public relations.AdvertisementShe was the head of the Federal News Agency, which is believed to be Mr. Prigozhins flagship media outlet. The agency is known for its exclusive coverage of Russian private armies on Syrias front line.Mr. Polozov ran the troll farms I.T. department and oversaw the purchase of space on computer servers inside the United States to set up virtual private networks that masked the agencys Russian location, according to the indictment. After a co-conspirator traveled to Atlanta in November 2014, he gave Mr. Polozov a summary of his trip and expenses.According to business records and Mr. Polozovs page on the Russian social network Vkontakte, Mr. Polozov runs a software company called Morkov, which was registered in 2013, and began to recruit web developers and programmers in early 2014.In need of people with knowledge of website promotion for full-time work, he wrote in a Vkontakte post on May 28, 2014. If interested, send me a personal message. You can send your résumé immediately.On Vkontakte, he shared political jokes at the expense of Russias rivals and neighbors. One post he shared in June 2015 quoted the Chechen writer German Sadulaev:The greatest possible mistake is to neglect the Russians. Consider them weak. Offend them. Never offend the Russians. The Russians are never as weak as you think they are. God forbid you expel the Russians or take something from them. The Russians always come back. The Russians will come back and take back what is theirs. But when the Russians return, they do not apply force proportionally. They destroy everything in their path.Not much is known about the Bovdas, including their relationship. According to the indictment, she was the head, and he the deputy head, of the translator project, the troll farms campaign to target Americans with messages on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube, starting in April 2014. The project employed hundreds of people and, by the summer of 2016, was spending $1.2 million a month. It hid activities through a web of shell companies. According to the indictment, Ms. Bovda and Mr. Bovda both worked for the troll farm for about a year, from November 2013 to October 2014.According to the indictment, Mr. Aslanov oversaw many of the operations targeting the United States election. An investigation by RBC, a newsmagazine, found that Mr. Aslanov was in charge of the American department of the troll farm. It reported that Mr. Aslanov arrived in St. Petersburg in 2000 from his hometown Ust-Kut, in the Irkutsk region. His Vkontakte profile says he graduated from the Russian State Hydrometeorological University in St. Petersburg in 2012, and a university page indicates that he studied economics and wildlife management.The RBC report says that he spent several months in the United States in 2009, visiting New York and Boston. His work at the troll farm included registering legal entities in the names of his employees.His name appears in public records as general director of Azimut — which, according to the indictment, was used to funnel money to the troll farm — and of the Reputation Management Center. According to its website, the Reputation Management Center first determines what kind of reputation a client has online through media monitoring, and then creates bots that improve its image through positive posts, drowns negative reviews in a sea of favorable information about the company and creates hype around it.AdvertisementMs. Kaverzina grew worried after Facebook revealed last September that it was cooperating with the authorities to look into Russian advertising on the platform. We had a slight crisis here at work: the F.B.I. busted our activity (not a joke), she wrote to a relative, according to the indictment. So, I got preoccupied with covering tracks together with the colleagues, she added. I created all these pictures and posts, and the Americans believed that it was written by their people.Mr. Podkopaev was an analyst for the translator project. He conducted research on the United States and drafted social media messages for the organization, according to the indictment.Mr. Vasilchenko posted to, monitored and updated social media accounts while posing as Americans or as American grass-roots organizations. He led two subgroups focused on political interference in the United States, including the election. On Vkontakte, he shared a meme in October 2016 that imagined a drinking game in which players took a shot every time Mr. Trump talked about building a wall along the Mexican-United States border or making America great again, told voters to believe him, or complained about being treated unfairly; and every time Mrs. Clinton coughed, sipped water, laughed awkwardly, or mentioned her daughter or President Barack Obama.Mr. Venkov inhabited multiple social media personas, according to the indictment. Someone with that name belongs to a Facebook group of social media marketing professionals and posted a photo last May of himself wearing a Republican elephant pin.Ivan Nechepurenko reported from St. Petersburg, and Michael Schwirtz from New York. Reporting was contributed by Oleg Matsnev, Neil MacFarquhar and Sophia Kishkovsky from Moscow; Lincoln Pigman from London; and Jack Begg and Sewell Chan from New York.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DES SHOEFEB. 8, 2018
Sometimes it seems as if were living under a constant barrage of heavy news. But it isnt all bad out there. This feature is meant to send you into the weekend with a smile, or at least a lighter heart. Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:With a thunderous roar, a rocket called Falcon Heavy arced into the great unknown on Tuesday. The successful launch will give SpaceX — the company founded by Elon Musk, the billionaire entrepreneur — momentum to develop even larger rockets.A playful payload was delivered into space this time round: Mr. Musks cherry-red electric sports car.Its kind of silly and fun, but silly and fun things are important, he said.Mr. Musks dream is to eventually send people to Mars. Read more »Our animal friends keep surprising us: Scientists have found that many are able to distinguish not only bigger from smaller, or more from less, but also two from four, four from 10, or 40 from 60. Even spiders and frogs have surprisingly sophisticated number sense.AdvertisementAnd chimpanzees numeric working memory is astonishing. Flash a scattering of numerals on a screen for just 210 milliseconds, then cover the numbers with white squares. A numerically schooled young chimp will touch the squares sequentially to indicate the ascending order of the hidden numbers.AdvertisementDont bother trying to do this yourself. You cant. Read more »There are fierce debates about the best way to sweep the ice during the sport of curling. Quick and light, or hard and slow?Three Canadian entrepreneurs spent months pouring their creative energies into a high-tech device to hone curlers skills: the SmartBroom.The implement has four sensors in the head that show force in pounds and stroke rate in hertz. The curler can then experiment to see which technique works best.The broom retails for $3,000. Canadians get a discount. Read more »The plan would offer families up to 500,000 rupees, or about $7,800, of coverage a year. While that sum seems small by Western standards, it would be enough to cover the equivalent of five heart surgeries in India.This is huge. Its the biggest step the government has taken in 20 years in health care, said Dr. Ajay Bakshi, the former chief executive of a hospital chain based in Bangalore. Read more »Early Facebook and Google employees have formed the Center for Humane Technology, which is trying to challenge the companies they once helped create.The group plans to unveil an ad campaign at 55,000 public schools in the United States, aiming to educate students, teachers and parents about depression that can come from heavy social media use.AdvertisementThis is an opportunity for me to correct a wrong, said Roger McNamee, a member of the group and an early investor in Facebook. Read more »Researchers found the incredibly dense structures under foliage in northern Guatemala by shooting beams from planes into the tree canopy. The lasers helped create a 3-D picture that suggested an ancient society of such interconnectedness that even experienced archaeologists were surprised.This world, which was lost to this jungle, is all of a sudden revealed in the data, said Albert Yu-Min Lin, an engineer. And what you thought was this massively understood, studied civilization is all of a sudden brand-new again. Read more »Black Panther is a jolt of a movie, says Manohla Dargis, our film critic. Chadwick Boseman as Tchalla, the titular superhero, leads a scene-stealing cast that includes Michael B. Jordan, Lupita Nyongo and Andy Serkis.Race matters in Black Panther and it matters deeply, Ms. Dargis writes, not in terms of Manichaean good guys and bad, but as a means to explore larger human concerns about the past, the present, and the uses and abuses of power. That alone makes it more thoughtful about how the world works than a lot of mainstream movies, even if those ideas are interspersed with plenty of comic-book posturing. Read more »What would you like to see here? We want to hear from you. Email us at goodnews@nytimes.com.Follow Des Shoe on Twitter: @DesNYT.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Retiring By                     
AMY ZIPKIN

FEB. 9, 2018
Suzanne Massion has been making art her whole life.Ms. Massion, now 72 and living outside Chicago, said she couldnt remember a time when she didnt paint or draw — including her young adult years, which she spent on a dairy farm, and her time selling annuities for a savings and loan. For the last quarter-century, however, her artwork has become more than just a hobby. Its now her main endeavor.But relying solely on the traditional brick-and-mortar gallery to sell her art isnt working for her anymore. In October, after going nearly two years without a sale at a gallery where she had a nine-year relationship with the owner, she decided to market her pieces more energetically online.Ms. Massion now exhibits primarily at www.ugallery.com, a San Francisco-based juried site, expanding from a small presence there. And she has gotten results: She sold four pieces from the site in December alone.Ms. Massion is following a path taken by other older artists who, eager to continue creating and attempting to earn a living from art in their retirement, are turning to online sales to supplement or replace their gallery ties. With the change, older artists are having to learn to engage with an ever-widening pool of buyers on the internet.AdvertisementThe experience can be unsettling, she said.Going online and selling online was for me hitting a brick wall. The technological aspect of selling art online was foreign to me, said Ms. Massion, who had a steep learning curve, starting with learning how to upload digital images.AdvertisementThe move to online sales is happening as drawings and photos are more frequently shared on sites like Facebook, Pinterest and Instagram, whether by professional artists or hobbyists. The growth of social media has made artists of us all, said David Winton, the chief executive of Kalisher, a company outside Chapel Hill, N.C., that places original art in businesses and other commercial spaces.Given the growth in online art sales globally, making such a shift would be a smart move for artists. A report issued last year by the British insurer Hiscox showed sales on the online art market in 2016 were up 15 percent over the previous year, reaching $3.75 billion. In 2015, sales were at $3.27 billion, a 24 percent increase from 2014.Matthew Dibble, 60 a roofer in Cleveland, painted in the off season for three decades before turning to art full time. He began posting his work — large-scale abstract paintings with vigorous brush strokes — on Facebook in 2009, not because he was thinking about selling, but because he was attracted to the idea that a post could be seen and shared by people around the world, he said. He got hooked on the platform after making his first online sale there, to a collector in France — even though at $1,500 it was a lower price than his work had been fetching. He later added accounts on Pinterest and Instagram, where he has more than 15,000 followers.Since 2012, he has exhibited on saatchiart.com, a large commercial online gallery that displays more than 500 of his paintings, ranging in price from $2,500 to $10,000. He estimates he sells three to four works on the site a year. Working with the site, he said, has allowed me to expand my audience and has helped me gain confidence and a new sense of optimism for the future.After a representative from Kalisher began looking for Cleveland artists for a local client, Mr. Dibble landed a big commission in 2015. The result: 24 paintings hung as a single unit on display in the Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel. He earned just over $19,000 for the job.Geoffrey Stein, 57, a former lawyer who now paints full time, was forced to make a change when a Westchester County gallery that displayed his work, Lionheart, closed last fall after the gallery owner died. The gallery director, Susan D. Grissom, took the inventory online, calling the new site paraphe.art. The power of social media influenced her decision. Instagram is your new storefront, she said.Mr. Stein still sees a need to continue marketing in the physical world. He has been keeping some work with a gallery in Britain, while also being digitally savvy. Artists will need more than one platform, he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Stein said he began showing his work on the Saatchi Art site while in art school in London in 2005-6. Through www.paraphe.art, his artwork is also shown on www.artsy.net, an online resource for art collecting and education. It provides buyers access to real-time auctions at Christies New York and Sothebys, among others. And he is on Facebook and Pinterest, as well as Instagram — the gram being his favorite because of its inherently visual nature.AdvertisementArtists over the age of 50 make up a significant contingent of those represented by online galleries. Artsy.net estimates that nearly 50 percent of living artists represented on its site are older than 50, with similar proportions at Artnet.com and Ugallery.Ruth Finkelstein, associate director of the Robert N. Butler, Columbia Aging Center at Columbia University, said people typically dont retire from highly creative activities. You do it as long as you can.Fledgling and more established artists may also sell on well-known sites like Etsy, eBay and others. Carolyn Edlund is the executive director of the Arts Business Institute, a nonprofit group on the Gulf Coast of Florida. The association conducts workshops in major cities and online for artists who want to start a business. Entry into the marketplace is incredibly easy, she said, making it crowded.Some see that as a virtue. Rachel A.J. Pownall, an art economist at Maastricht University in the Netherlands who prepared a report on art market trends for the European Fine Art Fair, said in an email: The online developments are helping the art market blossom by reaching many more buyers through a large number of business models. She said that the online market could be a boon for older women whose work might have been overlooked by traditional galleries.Ms. Pownall, who co-authored the recent paper, Glass Ceilings in the Art Market, said female artists, to establish themselves in the marketplace, have to be better than average.An online presence using an art e-commerce platform, Ms. Pownall said in the email, is therefore likely to be a more attractive option for sales for females, who have more to gain by circumventing the traditional channels of the dealer and gallery, and hence my intuition that female artists are more prone to move online.To be sure, there can be some potential downsides to going online, but even those are changing. Artists have long relied on traditional galleries, for example, to navigate contracts and help them market their work. Now, online galleries are also bridging that gap. UGallery helps artists with pricing and offers advice about a professional path, and Saatchi Art has an artists relations team.We help the artist prepare for every shipment, no matter how complicated, and act as his or her liaison with the courier services, managing any customs clearance issues on behalf of the artist and the art buyer, Saatchi Arts chief curator, Rebecca Wilson, said in an email.Artists who place their work on nonexclusive sites also need to be familiar with the terms, Ms. Grissom said. One artist who was showing her work online realized belatedly that she had agreed to a markdown of unsold units of a limited-edition work. Rather than sell the pieces at a discount, the artist removed her remaining work from the site.AdvertisementFor now, the two business models, off- and online, co-exist.Regardless of where one sells, Mr. Dibble said, The hardest thing in the world is to sell a painting at a fair price. So hes keeping his ties to brick-and-mortar galleries in Charlotte, N.C.; Cleveland; and New York City, while remembering that unlike them, the internet never closes.An earlier version of this article misstated how Kalisher, a company that places art in businesses, found Matthew Dibbles artwork. It found his art directly online and by visiting Cleveland and talking to local artists, not by scouting the online outlet Saatchi Art.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page BU7 of the New York edition with the headline: A Lifetime of Making Art, but New to Selling It Online.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ISABEL KERSHNERFEB. 8, 2018
JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel has lashed out at the countrys police chief, whom he accused of airing delusional and mendacious insinuations against him, just days before the police are expected to publish recommendations regarding potential charges against Mr. Netanyahu in two corruption investigations, possibly including bribery.Any fair-minded person will ask themselves how people who say such delusional things about the prime minister can investigate him objectively and make recommendations in his case without bias, Mr. Netanyahu wrote in a Facebook post after midnight Wednesday.A large shadow has been cast this evening over the police investigations and recommendations in the case of Prime Minister Netanyahu, he added.Critics said Mr. Netanyahu, now in his third consecutive term in office, was trying to discredit the police in order to delegitimize investigations that could undermine his political future.AdvertisementClearly it is unjustified, Barak Medina, a professor in the law faculty of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said of the attack on the police commissioner, Roni Alsheich. The prime minister is trying to create a spin and present himself as the victim.AdvertisementLike other observers, Mr. Medina drew comparisons to President Trumps criticism of the F.B.I. and Justice Department amid investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 election campaign.In a second Facebook post on Thursday afternoon, Mr. Netanyahu denied any personal attack on Mr. Alsheich. The real question is the purity of the investigation, he wrote. The allegations that were aired are grave and should keep any decent person awake at night.He made his criticisms after Mr. Alsheich said in a lengthy television interview on Wednesday that private detectives working on behalf of powerful people had been gathering information about investigators working on the Netanyahu files, sniffing around their relatives and neighbors and asking questions.Though he did not directly accuse the prime minister of involvement, Mr. Alsheich did little to push back when his interviewer suggested that the private detectives were acting on behalf of politicians.Ultimately, he added, we know who these people are. Apparently somebody has to pay them, and therefore this disturbs us greatly.Mr. Alsheich has said that after he went public, some months ago, about what he described as pressures applied to the investigators by those collecting information on them, the activity stopped. Mr. Alsheich said on Wednesday that these were not rumors or blah blah blah, but facts.Mr. Netanyahu excoriated Mr. Alsheich for repeating the delusional and mendacious insinuation that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent private detectives against police officers investigating him.AdvertisementIn the interview broadcast on the respected magazine program Uvda — an Israeli equivalent of 60 Minutes — Mr. Alsheich also defended the leader of the police anticorruption unit, Roni Ritman, who has been accused of sexual harassment and recently stepped down.Mr. Netanyahu also struck back at this part of the conversation, although his name once again went unmentioned.He wrote of Mr. Alsheich, It is shocking to discover that he is repeating to journalists the no less ludicrous and false insinuation of Ritman, as if the prime minister was involved in the complaint against the investigations unit chief. Mr. Netanyahu and his lawyer have called for a swift inquiry into the claims they said Mr. Alsheich had implied.The extraordinary clash came amid reports in Israel that the police were likely to present conclusions during the next week regarding the evidentiary basis for charges in two graft cases against Mr. Netanyahu.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the first, known as Case 1000, investigators are looking at whether Mr. Netanyahu offered favors in return for gifts of expensive cigars, pink Champagne and other goods from wealthy friends, including an Israeli Hollywood producer, Arnon Milchan.The second, Case 2000, involves back-room dealings with a local newspaper magnate. Mr. Netanyahu was recorded negotiating for favorable coverage with the publisher of a newspaper that had often criticized him, Yedioth Ahronoth, in exchange for curtailing the circulation of a free competitor, Israel Hayom, financed by the American casino magnate Sheldon Adelson.The police have been investigating Mr. Netanyahu on suspicion of bribery, fraud and breach of trust, according to the Israeli authorities.Mr. Netanyahu has already tried to prepare the public for the likelihood that the police will recommend charges, suggesting that such a move would be meaningless, since, he said, only about half of police recommendations resulted in formal charges.A final decision regarding any indictment of Mr. Netanyahu is likely to be months away and would lie with the attorney general, after consultations with the state prosecutor.AdvertisementEarlier Wednesday night, Mr. Netanyahu posted a video on his Facebook page in which he told his supporters not to worry.There will be recommendations, there will also be signs saying, Bibi is guilty until proven innocent, and invalid pressures, he said. But I am sure that at the end of the day the authorized legal bodies will come to the same conclusion, to the simple truth: There is nothing.Mr. Netanyahu appointed Mr. Alsheich as police commissioner about two years ago, and praised him at the time as a creative, original and determined commander who is not afraid to take the initiative.The relationship has soured since the investigations began. In October, Mr. Netanyahu attacked Mr. Alsheich and blamed the police for what he called a tsunami of leaks about the investigations. Mr. Alsheich denied that the police had been the source of the leaks.David Amsalem, the coalition chairman for Mr. Netanyahus right-wing Likud Party, accused the police of attempting a coup.When people are being murdered in the streets, he said on Army Radio, it is more important than the prime minister having received a cigar.Yair Lapid, leader of the centrist party Yesh Atid and a challenger for the post of prime minister, described Mr. Netanyahus attack on the police chief as a desperate act of a person under investigation who has decided to exploit his lofty position to threaten the rule of law and cast aspersions on the police, who protect us all.Avi Gabbay, leader of the center-left Labor Party, called Mr. Netanyahus attack unprecedented and illegitimate.Asked by the television interviewer, Ilana Dayan, a veteran investigative journalist, if the Israeli public would be surprised by the police findings, Mr. Alsheich replied, There will be some people who will say, Wait a moment, this is not what we thought.AdvertisementAs for the idea that he could end up being remembered as the police chief who brought down a sitting prime minister, Mr. Alsheich said, I dont like it, but thats my job.A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Netanyahu Lashes Out as Police Wrap Up Graft Inquiries.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SOPAN DEBFEB. 8, 2018
It started as a local debate over a New York high school production of the musical The Hunchback of Notre Dame. A white teenager was cast in the lead role of Esmeralda, a 15th-century Roma woman, spurring young student activists to object.Last month, after much discussion in the community, Ithaca High School pulled the show, aiming to replace it with something else. But the story doesnt end there.Those same students are now besieged by an online mob targeting them with threats and racial epithets after the incident was reported in right-wing publications like Breitbart News, then spread to the neo-Nazi site The Daily Stormer.Via Facebook, the students received pictures of themselves with swastikas plastered on their faces. One parent had what was thought to be her home address (it wasnt) posted online with a comment seeming to encourage harassment: Do your thing social media. Another parent received a profane email, assailing her for embracing anti-white racism, adding: I feel sorry for your brainwashed child.AdvertisementIthaca High School, in upstate New York, was to stage the musical, based on the 1831 novel by Victor Hugo and the 1996 Disney animated film, in mid-April. In Hugos book, it is unclear whether both parents of Esmeralda are Roma. Also known as Gypsies, Roma are descendants of migrants who arrived in Europe from India more than a millennium ago. They have historically been disparaged across the continent, with many remaining impoverished to this day.AdvertisementAnd while two productions of the new musical — its premiere at the La Jolla Playhouse in California in 2014 and one in 2015 at the Paper Mill Playhouse in New Jersey — gave the part to a woman of color, Ciara Renée, the casting calls for those shows invited actresses of all ethnicities to audition for the role. Music Theatre International, the licensing company that holds the rights to Hunchback, says that Esmeralda is a female, aged between 20 and 30, and that she is a beautiful and free-spirited gypsy who possesses the strong sense of justice and morality.But in the Disney film, Esmeralda has a dark complexion. And that is the version that Ithaca High School students grew up watching. That depiction, plus the precedent of Ms. Renées casting, led some to believe the part would go to one of the high schools students of color, who make up 34 percent of the student body.Maddi Carroll, a 17-year-old African-American senior, said the high schools staging of Hunchback was initially exciting to her because we didnt feel like our high school usually put on productions with women of color in starring roles.We were talking about us being younger and thinking about Disney princesses we had to look up to. For us, we really had Jasmine and Esmeralda, she added, referring also to the Aladdin character.In the fall, after a white student was cast as Esmeralda for the show, a group of five classmates, including Ms. Carroll, formed Students United Ithaca. They began writing letters and organizing a campaign against the musical.In January, Annabella Mead-VanCort, a senior who did not audition for the play, wrote a letter to Tompkins Weekly, a local publication, and had more than two dozen co-signers. It asserted that Esmeralda was accurately depicted in the Disney film and that the part was written for a young woman of color. Esmeralda is a Roma, part of an oppressed class of people, she wrote. It is her oppression, and that of her people, which allows her to better understand the perspective of the Hunchback and to ultimately advocate for him.After the outcry, the school board held a community meeting on Jan. 23, when a number of students showed up wearing black in solidarity with the young activists, including Prachi Ruina, who had auditioned for the musical, and was cast in the ensemble.AdvertisementI call upon you to stop this musical now, she said to the board. You tear a community apart if you dont.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The next day, the school board announced that Hunchback would be pulled and a new production would be proposed.Mike Ellis, the father of the young actress who was originally cast as Esmeralda, said in an interview about the students protest: Even though it involved a sacrifice on my daughters part, I think the questions that theyre asking are good, important questions that any school should want to ask itself.The events were reported on Jan. 29 in The Ithaca Journal. On Feb. 5, Breitbart picked up the news, writing that Esmeraldas race shouldnt matter. The publication has covered Hollywoods recent casting controversies, including accusations of whitewashing when a white actor was cast in the film Hellboy to play a character portrayed as Asian in the original comic book.The Daily Stormer published a post about the high schools decision. Mainstream national outlets, including Fox News and The Washington Times, amplified the conversation.The comments online became ugly. On a 4chan, an anonymous message board, one post said that the students need to be dealt with. The Students United Ithaca Facebook page was particularly vitriolic, with some members receiving private messages saying, You are the real Nazis of this country, and Youre a pathetic racist scum group.Ms. Ruina was told to go back to India. On Facebook, one African-American students personal page was tagged in a public comment that used a racial epithet, saying he is the reason we are looking for trees. The student interpreted this as a threat of lynching.The Ithaca High School principal didnt respond to a request for comment, nor did the school districts superintendent. Dr. Sean Eversley Bradwell, vice president of the Ithaca Board of Education, wrote in an email that the board was very concerned about the level of vitriol directed at our students. He also said the district had received more than 100 angry voice mail messages and 50 emails.The trolling has been taxing for the students. This is very, very surreal, Ms. Carroll said, adding, Its a lot to handle as a 17-year-old who is in high school right now, applying to college, trying to get ready for that stuff.A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2018, on Page C2 of the New York edition with the headline: Cancellation of Hunchback Gets Pushback.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SUI-LEE WEEFEB. 6, 2018
The German carmaker Daimler publicly apologized on Tuesday after its Mercedes-Benz brand caused an outcry in China by quoting the Dalai Lama in a social media post.The move by the automaker is the latest example of a foreign company being cowed by the growing power of a critical, but increasingly nationalistic, consumer market. Many in China view the Dalai Lama as a dangerous voice for separatism in a region, Tibet, that they consider an integral part of their country.The post on the Mercedes-Benz Instagram account, which was widely viewed before being deleted, carried the hashtag #MondayMotivation and showed a white Mercedes car on a beach. It featured a quote popularly attributed to the Dalai Lama: Look at the situations from all angles, and you will become more open.
            Mercedes-Benz apologise to China for quoting Dalai Lama on social media, thus viewing things from only one angle and becoming less open. https://t.co/vsLnJW3pvS pic.twitter.com/ADtEEQo5Ok The Instagram post provoked an outcry from Chinese internet users, many of whom pledged to boycott the Mercedes brand. Though China blocks Instagram, a photo-sharing social network owned by Facebook, many users circumvent those controls by using virtual private networks.AdvertisementChina typically responds furiously when a foreign leader, celebrity or company meets with the Dalai Lama or mentions him. Beijing accuses him of seeking independence for Tibet, but the spiritual leader insists that he is only seeking the autonomy promised by the Chinese government.AdvertisementThe post carried an erroneous message and was removed, Mercedes said in a statement posted on Weibo, Chinas version of Twitter. It said it sincerely accepted all criticism and would take every action to increase its understanding of Chinas culture and values.Although we deleted the post as soon as possible, it has hurt the feelings of people in this country, the company said. In this regard, we extend our sincerest apologies.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Official media also criticized the company over the post. The Peoples Daily, the ruling Communist Partys official newspaper, called Mercedes-Benz the enemy of the people.This is an ill-intentioned poster, the newspaper said in an opinion piece. It is not only an offense, but even more so, its a challenge to the Chinese people. Needless to say, its hateful.Daimlers response highlights the vulnerabilities of foreign companies operating in a market like China, which is highly sensitive to any slight. Many companies, including Apple and Yum Brands, which owns the restaurant franchises Pizza Hut and KFC, have had to apologize because of an internet-savvy population that is quick to stoke a backlash against foreign businesses.Last month, the American hotel chain Marriott International publicly pledged that it did not support separatist elements in China after it listed Tibet and Taiwan, a democratic island that Beijing considers to be a breakaway province, as separate countries. Its Chinese website and app were shut down for a week by the Chinese authorities.After that episode, Chinese consumers scoured the internet for other offenders. Delta Air Lines and the Spanish clothing retailer Zara were similarly rebuked by Chinese authorities for listing Taiwan and Tibet as countries on their websites.Follow Sui-Lee Wee on Twitter: @suilee.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: Daimler Apologizes as Quote Online Fuels Outcry in China.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Tech Were Using By                     
THE NEW YORK TIMES

FEB. 7, 2018
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Talya Minsberg, a social strategy editor for The Times who is in Pyeongchang, South Korea, to cover the Winter Olympics, discussed the tech shes using.As a social strategy editor for The Times, what tech do you use on the job the most?The short answer isnt an exciting one: Its my iPhone. An iPhone 7 at that.Part of the job of a social editor is thinking about how readers find news where they already are — on social channels like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat. So I try to consume news like we know many of our readers do, from their phones.When Im in charge of what goes out on our social channels, I use a MacBook and one extra monitor, nothing too fancy. The key is having a handful of listening tools at the ready. That means Im one of those people who have an obnoxious amount of tabs up at once. Crowdtangle, a social media analytics tool, Chartbeat, Tweetdeck, Facebook … I could go on.AdvertisementI also listen to a good amount of music that can help me zone in on my work. So Im a frequent user of Spotify and live performances I have favorited on YouTube.AdvertisementHow much social media do you consume for work, what forms of it do you consume the most, and how do you handle the deluge?As most social media editors can attest, the job demands consuming a lot of media in all forms. Day to day, Twitter takes up most of my time and energy. I also dedicate a good amount of my attention to Facebook, Reddit and Instagram at the office.Im very much still working on how I handle the deluge. Some days it feels like Im always taking in information, from the moment I wake up and start listening to NPR. Creating methods to narrow down the need to know helps me cut out some of the noise. That could be a zooming in on sources pertinent to a story Im working on or top news. Either way, creating lists and advanced searches on Twitter is invaluable. I also follow specific subreddits, track trending terms, and use Google Alerts.That being said, Ive found its helpful for my mental well-being to take one day a week off from social media. For me, thats Saturday. It feels like a weekly cleanse and sometimes its truly a challenge, which makes me realize just how much I really need to push myself to do it. For one day a week, I try to use my phone as one thing and one thing only: a way to text and call family and friends. Radical, isnt it?Youre at the Winter Olympics as part of a team to cover the event. What tech preparations did you need to make to be ready for coverage?My first priority was ensuring I have a secure backup for everything. If something happens to my phone or computer, I wanted to make sure that wouldnt completely derail my work. I use a password manager, have two-step verification on everything that allows it, and keep lots of stuff in the cloud.Ive also kicked my listening tools usage into high gear. That means a wealth of new lists, alerts and threads Im watching that are Olympics- and sport-specific.AdvertisementDo you have to keep any tech gear warm in the chilly temperatures in Pyeongchang, and how do you plan to do so? Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Yes! As many have experienced, phones can die quickly in the cold. Since temperatures have been hovering between zero and 30 degrees Fahrenheit, I thought about creative ways to keep my gear warm and charged. I ordered dozens and dozens of hand warmers that I plan on also using as phone warmers. The backup plan to that backup plan is having more than one phone on me, and more than one external charger on me.That being said, none of my gear will do me any good if Im an ice cube. So I thought about keeping myself warm too. SmartWool socks are my Olympic fashion staple.What is our social media strategy set to be at the Winter Olympics?Ill tell you about the tool Im most excited about — a new messaging system with one of our sports editors, Sam Manchester. Sam will be sending messages from the Olympics to readers within The New York Times app.There are a handful of exciting things youll see on the messaging app. But perhaps most exciting is the fact that you will actually be able to talk to Sam, who is a real-life human and not a bot! Hes going to be your man on the ground who will take you behind the scenes of the Games in all their excitement and quirkiness.Outside of work, what tech product are you in love with using in your daily life right now?MoviePass, which provides a subscription plan so members get movie tickets at a cheaper price. I wasnt a big moviegoer and this has completely transformed my habits overnight.What could be better about it?The most frustrating feature is that you have to be within 100 yards of a theater to reserve tickets. I wish you could reserve tickets in advance without being there. I dont see a reason against it, especially if there was a penalty for not showing up at the movie after reserving tickets to dissuade no shows, à la ClassPass.What do you do to get away from social media?I get moving. Ive been an avid runner since I was a little kid, and theres nothing that makes me happier than a good long run. Im hoping to get in some runs in the very early mornings in Pyeongchang, SmartWool included.Follow Talya Minsberg on Twitter: @tminsbergA version of this article appears in print on February 8, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Keeping iPhones and Toes Warm at the Olympics.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DANIEL VICTORFEB. 2, 2018
When The North Coast Journal, an alternative weekly newspaper in Northern California, posted a story to Facebook about 35 people who were reported missing in Humboldt County, it asked its readers if they recognized any of the faces.Amy Bonner OBrien, who has lived there for 25 years, couldnt believe what she was seeing.Yep, Rebekah Martinez is on this season of The Bachelor, she wrote in a Facebook comment to the newspaper, swiftly solving the mystery.Indeed, Ms. Martinez, a 22-year-old contestant on the current season of ABCs reality show The Bachelor, was reported missing by her mother on Nov. 18, about a month and a half before her season would premiere on Jan. 1, according to the Humboldt County sheriffs office.And she was still considered missing, despite nationwide celebrity and active participation on social media, until Thursday, when Ms. Bonner OBrien and others alerted the local sheriffs office.AdvertisementThe confusion boiled down to several strands of miscommunication.Her mother filed the report at about 1 a.m. on Nov. 18, saying she last had contact with her daughter on Nov. 12.AdvertisementThe mother heard from Ms. Martinez late in the afternoon on the same day she filed the missing person report, the sheriffs office said. But investigators didnt learn that until Dec. 12, when a deputy sheriff contacted the mother by email to follow up.Still, investigators were unable to get in touch with Ms. Martinez.As part of procedure, Humboldt County Sheriffs Office deputies are typically required to make direct contact with the missing person to confirm status and well-being, as geographical and other factors allow, the sheriffs office said in a statement. A deputy was not able to make direct contact with Martinez and she was not removed from the Missing and Unidentified Persons System.On Thursday, after the newspaper article was published, a deputy again tried to contact Ms. Martinez by phone, the sheriffs office said. The deputy spoke to the mother, who said Ms. Martinez had tried to contact the office but was unable to speak to a deputy.Finally, at 2:59 p.m. on Thursday, Ms. Martinez returned the deputys call, confirming she was alive and well. She was removed from the system, the sheriffs office said, though her missing persons report remained online until Friday afternoon.All the while, Ms. Martinez has been publicly active on Instagram and Twitter. After writing on Sept. 17 that she was giving up social media for the next several weeks — a time that corresponds with the filming of The Bachelor — she began posting photos on Instagram again on Nov. 22.She is one of nine women who remain in contention for the affections of Arie Luyendyk Jr. on the television show, and she was unavailable for interviews on Friday. But she did address the report on Twitter:
            MOM. how many times do I have to tell you I dont get cell service on The Bachelor?? https://t.co/iYnxQCIZBt Ms. Martinez has been one of the more prominent personalities on the show, gaining attention even before the season started as the first contestant in the shows 21-season history to have a pixie cut. At 22, she was the shows youngest contestant, and her 14-year difference with the bachelor, Mr. Luyendyk, has been a prominent point of discussion among fans and fellow contestants.Ms. Bonner OBrien said Friday that she wasnt a big fan of The Bachelor. She had only watched the premiere episode of the current season, with another on in the background once while she was cooking.AdvertisementBut that was enough to recognize Ms. Martinez in the North Coast Journal article because she has a distinguishable look compared to the other contestants, she said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.If it was any of the other girls, I wouldnt have thought twice, she said. But she has the short hair.While her sister has taken to calling her Sherlock Holmes, she insisted she wasnt much of a detective.It really wasnt that hard to figure out, she said. "Im surprised no one else noticed.Thadeus Greenson, news editor at The North Coast Journal, said Friday that Ms. Martinez wasnt the only person who didnt belong on the missing persons list. As Linda Stansberry reported the story, she found others on the list whose social media presence made clear they were alive and well. Another man called the newspaper on Thursday, shocked to see his name on the cover.I think between what Linda found pre-publication and whats happened afterward, its at least four or five people who were going about their everyday lives with no clue they had been reported missing, he said.A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: A California Woman Was Reported Missing. Youll Find Her Mondays on ABC.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHARLES V. BAGLIFEB. 7, 2018
Its a tech takeover.Google, the tech company with a seemingly insatiable appetite for space in New York, is buying Chelsea Market, the blocklong Nabisco factory turned food mart, office building and tourist attraction, for about $2.4 billion, according to two executives who have been briefed on the deal and requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it.Chelsea Market sits directly across Ninth Avenue from the companys headquarters at 111 Eighth Avenue, which is larger than the Empire State Building and covers the entire block between 15th and 16th Streets.But it is only the latest example of an internet behemoth, and even smaller tech companies, expanding rapidly in New York City.Amazon, Facebook, Salesforce, a cloud computing company, and Spotify, a music streaming service, are all enlarging their footprints here by hundreds of thousands of square feet. Employment at technology firms has grown three times faster in New York City than in the rest of the private sector, adding more than 50,000 jobs since the end of the recession in 2010, according to a report by the state comptroller.AdvertisementThe modern tech sector began on the West Coast when it was about developing new technology and programming, said Scott Rechler, chairman of RXR Realty, a Google landlord at Pier 57, a new mixed-use space on the Hudson River that is scheduled to open this year. Its now about the implementation and application of technology. And thats presented an opportunity for New York, the business capital of the world. The talent pool is here.AdvertisementGoogles pending purchase of Chelsea Market was first reported by The Real Deal, a real estate publication. Google, Jamestown, the investment and management company that owns Chelsea Market, and its adviser, Douglas Harmon, of Cushman & Wakefield, declined to comment.But the executives briefed on the deal said the two companies had signed a $2.4 billion sales contract. The purchase comes with the right to make the building even larger by adding about eight stories, or 300,000 square feet. The current owner obtained the necessary zoning change in 2011 when it wanted to erect a 12-story hotel over the Buddakan restaurant, on Ninth Avenue.Neither side has made clear what Googles plans for the building are, and whether the popular food market will stay in place. But getting rid of tenants with leases would be a long-term process.Tech employment in New York City reached 128,600 last year, according to the comptrollers report. But analysts using a broader definition of tech put the total at nearly 326,000. The report — The New York City Tech Ecosystem, by HR&A Advisors — notes that roughly half the tech jobs are at employers with a main focus that is not technology, such as finance and media companies, or hospitals and government agencies.New York is one of 20 cities or regions in the running to become home to Amazons second headquarters, which could eventually generate 50,000 jobs. The city has sought to build the infrastructure the industry needs to grow, including Cornell Tech, a 12-acre engineering campus on Roosevelt Island.At the end of 2017, tech firms accounted for 29.3 million, or 8 percent, of the 398 million square feet of office space in New York City, according to CBRE, a real estate company. In a snapshot of recent tech-sector activity, those companies have leased or renewed leases for 21 million square feet of office space in the last 10 years alone. If telecom companies are included, that number jumps to 26.8 million.Nine years ago, tech firms had only 17.6 million square feet of office space, or 5 percent of the office market.
            The number of tech workers in New York City was growing faster than in Silicon Valley as of 2013. Since then, New York Citys tech employment has expanded further, to nearly 326,000 people.        Tech workers in 2013Total workersNew York City291,0004.3 millionSilicon Valley347,0001.4 millionSan Francisco79,0000.7 millionTech workers in 2013 Total workers291k4.3 millionNew York City347k1.4 millionSilicon Valley79k0.7 millionSan FranciscoTech workers in 2013Total workers4.3m291kNew York City1.4m347kSilicon ValleySan Francisco0.7m79kFEB. 7, 2018
The tech firms generally prefer industrial spaces to the brass and glass towers of Midtown. Chelsea Market, where Google already leases 400,000 square feet of space, is a former factory building with expansive floors.AdvertisementAmazon has taken office space in what was once a warehouse at 450 West 33rd Street, although the owner, Brookfield, recently gave the building a face-lift and glass walls.Facebook has grown substantially at 770 Broadway, a landmark cast-iron building that was once a department store, on an entire block bounded by Eighth and Ninth Streets, between Broadway and Lafayette Street.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But that trend may be changing, said Mary Ann Tighe, a broker and chief executive of CBRE in the New York region. When companies grow and need a more robust infrastructure, she said, some tech firms are migrating to traditional office towers.Salesforce, the cloud computing company based in San Francisco, moved its three Manhattan offices into a 41-story skyscraper at 42nd Street and Sixth Avenue. The Salesforce logo replaced the MetLife branding atop the building.And Spotify, the music streaming company, is moving from 620 Sixth Avenue and several other locations into nearly half-a-million square feet at the 4 World Trade Center skyscraper in Lower Manhattan.But it was Google that prompted real estate brokers, landlords, city officials and economists to sit up and take notice of the burgeoning tech sector a decade ago.In 2006, the company moved into 111 Eighth Avenue, a massive onetime shipping terminal, with tenants that included Verizon, Sprint, Web MD and BarnesandNoble.com. The building sat atop a high-powered fiber artery snaking along Manhattans West Side. Employees used Razor scooters to navigate the blocklong corridors lined with work spaces, commissaries with free drinks and granola, and massage and game rooms.Google became a siren for other, smaller tech firms to move to the neighborhood, which was beginning to shrug off its industrial roots.AdvertisementIn 2010, Google bought the building, also from Jamestown, for $1.8 billion, a breathtaking sum at the time. Not so long ago, blue-collar tenants had paid a very modest $6 per square foot for space there.But Googles need for space continues unabated. The company has been unable to dislodge the other tenants at 111 Eighth Avenue as quickly as it had hoped. The company has leased large blocks of space nearby, at Pier 57; at 85 10th Avenue, another former Nabisco cookie factory, between 15th and 16th Streets; and at Chelsea Market.Facebook has about 5,000 employees now in the Chelsea neighborhood, occupying a total of 900,000 square feet.Owning Chelsea Market would enable the company to create a campus akin to its headquarters in California, albeit one that is more vertical. Chelsea Market, like 111 Eighth, has been a front-runner in the evolution of the Chelsea neighborhood from an industrial zone to an area known for inexpensive space for food producers, restaurants and office tenants, and now as a tech-sector hub.An earlier version of a chart with this article misstated the number of tech workers in San Francisco in 2013. It was 79,000, not 7,900.A version of this article appears in print on February 8, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Space-Hungry Google Buys Chelsea Market In a $2.4 Billion Deal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ERIC ASIMOVFEB. 1, 2018
For our next topic, lets return to what may now be familiar ground, Bordeaux.Previously, weve looked at two very different appellations within Bordeaux, Haut-Médoc and Pomerol. This time, the topic will be defined by value rather than place.The dominant image of Bordeaux is one of imposing chateaus, patrician proprietors and stratospheric prices. As far as the most famous properties go, in the best-known regions, that image holds a lot of truth, though most of the patricians are now corporate executives.Yet that is only part of the Bordeaux story. The greater Bordeaux region is made up of many small family estates. Their wines are not classified, their residences are rarely imposing, and their wines (relatively speaking) are not that expensive.Thats where the notion of value comes in. With these wines, you are not paying a premium for famous names or for the high status of their appellations. Nonetheless, they are not cheap. You could easily find dozens of bottles from Bordeaux that are less expensive than these three.So why these wines? Because value is not strictly a synonym for inexpensive. It means you are getting inordinate quality for the price, which I hope will be the case with these bottles. They are:Château Aney Haut-Médoc 2013 (Kermit Lynch Wine Merchant, Berkeley, Calif.) $25Château Moulin de Tricot Haut-Médoc 2013 (Rosenthal Wine Merchant, New York) $28Château le Puy Emilien Francs Côte de Bordeaux 2013 (Rosenthal Wine Merchant) $42These wines are produced in relatively small quantities, as is so often the case with good-value Bordeaux. If you cannot find them, you could select any recent Bordeaux in this price range. Other names to look for include Peybonhomme les Tours, Auney, Moulin Pey-Labrie, Lanessan, Jean Faux, La Peyre, Milon and Peyredon, just to name a few.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I should say that the 2013 vintage is not considered among the best, though I generally think that we pay too much attention to vintages. Yes, vintage conditions affect the character of the wine, and occasionally the price, though not much for wines as relatively inexpensive as these. But its always more interesting to see what a good producer does with a mediocre vintage than it is to prioritize the vintage.That said, if you see wines from these producers in other recent vintages, by all means snap them up.These wines are best with simple meals. Lamb and beef are classic matches; chicken and duck are fine as well. Serve the wines cool.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Write to Eric Asimov at asimov@nytimes.com, and follow him on Twitter: @EricAsimov.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Check Out Small Producers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVID M. HALBFINGERJAN. 28, 2018
JERUSALEM — Its gotten to the point where writing again about Sara Netanyahu, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahus embattled wife, can feel a bit like piling on.She faces criminal charges of sneaking $100,000 in catered meals from expensive restaurants into the prime ministers residence while covering up the fact that she had cooks on the government payroll. Two domestic workers have won damages in lawsuits accusing her of abusing them, and a third — a 24-year-old ultra-Orthodox cleaning woman who said she was treated like a slave — lasted barely a month in Mrs. Netanyahus employ last fall before fleeing and filing a complaint of her own.Again and again, the Netanyahus defenders have sought to brand her accusers as malicious liars and political foes of her husbands who are out to hurt him through her.But on Sunday the Israeli public witnessed Mrs. Netanyahus stormy temper with its own ears: A recorded telephone conversation surfaced in which she berated a publicist over the way she had been described in a gossip column item about her fund-raising for a school her sons had attended.AdvertisementThe recording, published on the Walla News site and then quickly broadcast by Israeli television stations, was made in 2009. Mrs. Netanyahu had become angry after the 44-word item mentioned her obligation, as the prime ministers wife, to perform public service — but did not cite her education credentials to her satisfaction.AdvertisementIm an educated woman! she can be heard shouting at the publicist. Psychologist! B.-A! M.-A! Thats it!But it says in the first sentence that youre a psychologist, the publicist protests, to no avail.After demanding that the publicist reprimand the reporter, Mrs. Netanyahu screams some more about the reference to her public service obligations. This prime ministers wife does public service every day! she says. In her professional capacity!Mr. Netanyahu spoke up for his wife in a pair of Facebook posts on Sunday, saying that everyone sometimes gets angry and says a few words that he didnt mean. He complained that the news media were ignoring his wifes many charitable initiatives and trying to use the newly surfaced recording as a battering ram in the ongoing attempt to overthrow the government.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Indeed, on the left, the national-security columnist Amir Oren, in Walla News, likened Mrs. Netanyahu to a terrorist in the way she had treated her underlings, and asked whether Mr. Netanyahu was truly unaware of this conduct, had gotten used to it or knew of it but was indifferent to the woes of others.The reaction from ordinary Israelis was feverish, and largely unkind.On Twitter, some tinkered with Mrs. Netanyahus words to render psychologist as psychopath; one slightly reordered Mr. Netanyahus Facebook post to create a hidden message spelling out Help, shes crazy. Someone else imagined a tweet by President Trump, Mr. Netanyahus close ally, calling Walla a dishonest website that refuses to acknowledge that Sara Netanyahu has a BA and MA and thats it.Though this may have been the first recording of Mrs. Netanyahu to come back to haunt her, its publication came just weeks after Israeli television broadcast a tape of the Netanyahus son Yair, while he was chauffeured and guarded at state expense, partying in strip clubs, making lewd jokes and asking for cash from the son of a billionaire who had benefited financially from the prime ministers official actions.Just how much damage his wife and son have done to Mr. Netanyahus political standing is difficult to assess, since he faces scandals of his own.AdvertisementThe police are expected to recommend within months, if not weeks, that he be prosecuted for allegedly receiving illegal gifts, including expensive cigars and champagne. He is also being investigated over an alleged back-room deal with the publisher of Israels leading newspaper. And several of his closest associates are said to be facing likely indictment over an even larger scandal, involving a multibillion-dollar purchase of three submarines from Germany.Mr. Netanyahu insists that he has done nothing wrong and that the investigations will ultimately bear this out.But Mrs. Netanyahus dealings with her aides have helped spawn at least one lasting political problem for her husband: One of the former aides, Meni Naftali, who won about $50,000 in damages over his treatment as the Netanyahus housekeeper, has since gone on to lead weekly Saturday night demonstrations in which thousands of Israelis have demanded an end to Mr. Netanyahus nine-year reign.Gabby Sobelman contributed research.A version of this article appears in print on January 29, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Tempest In Israel Over Tape Of Tirade.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Veronique GreenwoodLike a tiny submarine, the chambered nautilus speeds through the ocean on little jets that it creates by sucking in water and spitting it out.However, as ways of movement go, jet propulsion is not usually a very good use of energy. In the oceans depths where oxygen gets thin, the nautilus seems to be putting itself at risk by expending so much effort on movement. Fish use far less energy by pushing at the water with their fins. So how does it manage to jet around unscathed in the oceans depths?Graham Askew, a biomechanics professor at the University of Leeds, set out with a graduate student, Thomas Neil, to understand better how this shellfish moves. They found that the nautilus is actually a highly efficient jet-propelled creature, wasting much less energy than marine organisms like squid or jellyfish that get around in a similar way.The researchers began their study, which was published Wednesday in Royal Society Open Science, by liberally sprinkling an aquarium with minuscule floating particles of aluminum oxide. Then, one by one, they put five chambered nautiluses into the tank, and let them jet about. They used high-speed cameras, a laser that lit up the particles and software that could record the particles movements. In the constellation of specks, they saw the animals sucking in water, then forcing it out in the direction they were moving away from, with the pocket of expelled water and the nautilus shooting apart at velocities they could readily calculate.When they ran the numbers, the researchers saw that the nautilus was able to use 30 to 75 percent of the energy it transferred to the water to move.That was much higher than other similar swimmers. Squid, they tend to be about 40 to 50 percent efficient, said Dr. Askew.Bell-shaped jellyfish, which pulse their bells to squirt out water, also tend have lower than 50 percent efficiency.In general, moving very large volumes of water relatively slowly, as a fishs tail or a divers flippers do, wastes less energy than having to swiftly accelerate very small amounts. But nautilus have clearly found a way to make it work.It seems, said Dr. Askew, that when they are sucking in water, they do so in a wide stream, rather than in a more energetically costly narrow one. And they spend more time jetting than they do refilling in certain swimming scenarios, gently eking out the fluid theyve already sipped in. These strategies may be contributing to their ability to swim efficiently, getting by in situations where more vigorous jetting might get them in trouble, like the low-oxygen deep ocean.Still, for more details about the nautiluss survival strategies, fans of the creature will have to look to research from other groups. Dr. Askew and colleagues have since turned their focus — and their high-speed camera — to cuttlefish, to learn more about how these jet swimmers move.Read more:Loving the Chambered Nautilus to DeathWhat Eats What: A Landlubbers Guide to Deep Sea DiningThe Cuttlefish, a Master of Camouflage, Reveals a New Trick_____Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementBy ADAM NOSSITERFEB. 22, 2018
PARIS — European countries from Poland to Italy and Britain are shutting borders, stepping up deportations and making unsavory deals with warlords in Libya to restrict migrants. Now comes Frances turn.The government of President Emmanuel Macron this week put forward a draft law that even some of his own supporters said was too harsh. Human rights groups say it is intended to make it easier to expel would-be asylum seekers.But in presenting the proposal this week, Mr. Macrons interior minister, Gerard Collomb, made no bones about its other aim: to head off the political challenge of the far right.The migrant issue is a problem that can lead to difficulties — meaning political difficulties — he told reporters on Wednesday, before getting into the details of the law.AdvertisementThe new law, while limited in scope, would make it somewhat tougher for those who enter France illegally. They would have less time to apply for asylum and half as much time to appeal if their applications are rejected.AdvertisementThe measure is almost certain to win approval after debate in April, given Mr. Macrons large parliamentary majority. More than 60 percent of French people say there are too many immigrants in France.Indeed, the law is the offspring of two pressing realities in French politics. Last year, the country saw 100,000 asylum seekers, a record. And the runner-up in the presidential election was Marine Le Pen of the far-right National Front, whose theme was immigrant-bashing.The National Front has not gone away, although it is much weakened, and it is still singing the same song. Its spokesman Sebastien Chenu called the law a fraud this week, said the government is organizing migratory subversion. It promised something much tougher.Mr. Macron knows that his principal political challenge in the years ahead will come from the millions of discontented voters who opted for Ms. Le Pen last year. He is trying to use the momentum of his still-young presidency to deny the far-right its favorite issue.But the reaction on the left and among immigrant aid groups was equally strong, which suggests that Mr. Macron may have hit his target.Its a law that will mean a very sharp setback for human rights, said Jean-Claude Mas of Cimade, a leading refugee-aid organization in France. Above all it is aimed at greater control of, and expulsion of, humans.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The proposed law is likely to toughen the lives of would-be asylum seekers.It multiplies the cases in which detention is possible, said Marie-Aimée Peyron, head of the Paris bar, in an interview.Others agreed.Weve got to get over this Le Penization factor, said Olivier Faure, the head of the Socialists in Parliament, in a Facebook post. Fear has had the upper hand over reason for too long.AdvertisementThe rhetoric may not match the text, however.Those who enter France illegally would now only have 90 days to apply for asylum, instead of the current 120.If the demand is rejected, asylum seekers would have only 15 days to appeal, instead of a month. Those deemed ineligible and ordered to leave France could be held in administrative detention for 90 days, with extensions possible, instead of the current 45 days, before being expelled.Applications for asylum would be treated in six months by the French authorities, instead of the current 14 months.Mr. Collomb, the interior minister, insisted the new law was balanced and completely aligned with European law, pointing out the similarities between the French proposal and legislation elsewhere in Europe.We will have the same types of procedures as other European countries, he said.But France doesnt see itself in the same way as its European neighbors. If the fatherland of the rights of man doesnt vigorously oppose this law, I just dont understand anything anymore, said Mrs. Peyron.A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: French Plan Aims to Curb Migrants, and the Far Right.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JOHN KOBLINJAN. 31, 2018
Kevin Spacey is out. Diane Lane and Greg Kinnear are in.The sixth and final season of House of Cards will introduce new characters as it tries to move past a sexual misconduct scandal that put the Netflix series in peril and forced out its biggest star.Mr. Spacey, who played the central character, Frank Underwood, a ruthless politician who becomes president, was shown the door amid allegations of sexual misconduct last year.Production for the new season, after a three-month hiatus, resumed on Tuesday.Netflix did not disclose what roles Ms. Lane or Mr. Kinnear will play other than that they will be brother and sister. Mr. Kinnear, 54, and Ms. Lane, 53, are both Academy Award nominees. Robin Wright, the co-star of House of Cards, will be at the center of the final season.The return to production ends a three-month odyssey that began shortly after The New York Times published an investigation detailing sexual harassment and assault allegations against the Hollywood producer  Harvey Weinstein and a national reckoning on sexual harassment began in earnest.AdvertisementIn October, after Anthony Rapp, an actor, accused Mr. Spacey of inappropriate sexual behavior, Netflix announced that the next season of House of Cards would be its last, and suspended production not long after. Mr. Spacey apologized to Mr. Rapp, but numerous other allegations against him emerged.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Though House of Cards is past its peak in terms of cultural relevance, it is a landmark for the streaming service. It gave Netflix a bold entry into the TV landscape when it debuted in 2013, and in the five years since, the tech giant has upended the TV industry. Netflix said it would spend up to $8 billion in content this year, dwarfing all rivals.AdvertisementOther tech companies like Apple, Facebook and Google are now springing into gear and investing hundreds of millions of dollars to create their own original programming.Netflix has paid a price for sexual misconduct scandals. The streaming service said last month that it had taken a $39 million write-down for unreleased programming, which David Wells, its chief financial officer, said was related to the societal reset around sexual harassment. Netflix had been planning a movie starring Mr. Spacey about Gore Vidal, the writer, and a stand-up special with Louis C.K., the comedian, who was also accused of sexual misconduct. Both have been tossed away.The final season of House of Cards is expected to be eight episodes, down from the usual 13, and may be released this year.A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2018, on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: House of Cards Resumes Production.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported bylensBy James EstrinSarah Blesener spent most of 2016 at Russian patriotic camps and schools photographing teenagers learning military tactics and love of country. She had hoped her images would spark conversations about the polarization and nationalist rhetoric that marked the last United States presidential campaign. They did not. The overwhelming response from Americans when her photographs were published last year centered on Russian nationalism and the moral dilemmas surrounding militarization of youth. The most common reaction, she said, was that other people are nationalists, but Americans are patriots. With that in mind, Ms. Blesener, 26, turned to exploring the myriad programs that teach patriotic values and military skills to about 400,000 American children and teenagers. Many were similar to the Russian programs, though she said there was less military training in the United States. She eventually settled on 10 programs, including Utah Patriot Camp, the Border Patrol Explorer program, Young Marines and the Junior R.O.T.C. program. They had different combinations of religion, love of country and military-style training, Ms. Blesener said. Some had only educational programs, but all focused on patriotism. Many of the programs teach positive values, she said, noting that among the 17 victims in last weeks Florida school shooting were three Junior R.O.T.C. cadets who died while protecting their friends. All three were posthumously awarded the J.R.O.T.C. Heroism Medal, and one was admitted to West Point.Ms. Bleseners images from the United States are currently on exhibit at the Anastasia Gallery in New York until April 1. Taking her time during the project, she said, taught her to stay away from the more dramatic, but often less revealing, images with guns. she said. The resulting photos deal solely with the young people and do not provide ready-made answers for the viewers. In many ways, her project is as much an American coming-of-age story as it is an examination of patriotism.On one hand, there remains an incredible vulnerability of adolescence that I am drawn to: the wide-eyed optimism, the fear, the bewilderment, the gnawing need for acceptance, the lack of purpose and the open hands searching for it, she wrote in a project description. On the other hand, there is institutionalized militarization, there is patriotism, group identities, the stripping of traditional adolescent freedom, the talk of war and the play of war. Born and raised in Minneapolis, Ms. Blesener studied youth development and had intended to become a youth worker until she decided to move to New York and study photography. Teenagers have been the subjects of all her projects, including a long-term story on the friendship of four teenage boys in the South Bronx. The programs she found in Russia were well known by the public and encouraged by the government. Here, Ms. Blesener said, similar programs go unadvertised and are difficult to find. She was surprised to discover that there were twice as many young people enrolled in these programs here than in Russia. They gave a range of reasons for joining, including plans to seek a military career, parental pressure, following their friends or just wanting to learn to shoot a gun for fun, Ms. Blesener said.Patriotism permeates our politics, our culture, our everyday life, she wrote. As do accusations of unpatriotic behavior. Of course, the word patriot tends to just be code for someone who shares our beliefs. And Americans are incredibly patriotic people. But where a sense of pride, and love, of your country, your beliefs, your community — turns into a sense of superiority, to aggression — this is nationalism. Sarah Bleseners project was supported by grants from the Alexia Foundation and the Catchlight Foundation, and in partnership with Reveal from the Center for Investigative Reporting.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Sarah Blesener is on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.James Estrin, the co-editor of Lens, joined The Times as a photographer in 1992 after years of freelancing for the newspaper and hundreds of other publications.  @JamesEstrinAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylensBy James EstrinSarah Blesener spent most of 2016 at Russian patriotic camps and schools photographing teenagers learning military tactics and love of country. She had hoped her images would spark conversations about the polarization and nationalist rhetoric that marked the last United States presidential campaign. They did not. The overwhelming response from Americans when her photographs were published last year centered on Russian nationalism and the moral dilemmas surrounding militarization of youth. The most common reaction, she said, was that other people are nationalists, but Americans are patriots. With that in mind, Ms. Blesener, 26, turned to exploring the myriad programs that teach patriotic values and military skills to about 400,000 American children and teenagers. Many were similar to the Russian programs, though she said there was less military training in the United States. She eventually settled on 10 programs, including Utah Patriot Camp, the Border Patrol Explorer program, Young Marines and the Junior R.O.T.C. program. They had different combinations of religion, love of country and military-style training, Ms. Blesener said. Some had only educational programs, but all focused on patriotism. Many of the programs teach positive values, she said, noting that among the 17 victims in last weeks Florida school shooting were three Junior R.O.T.C. cadets who died while protecting their friends. All three were posthumously awarded the J.R.O.T.C. Heroism Medal, and one was admitted to West Point.Ms. Bleseners images from the United States are currently on exhibit at the Anastasia Gallery in New York until April 1. Taking her time during the project, she said, taught her to stay away from the more dramatic, but often less revealing, images with guns. she said. The resulting photos deal solely with the young people and do not provide ready-made answers for the viewers. In many ways, her project is as much an American coming-of-age story as it is an examination of patriotism.On one hand, there remains an incredible vulnerability of adolescence that I am drawn to: the wide-eyed optimism, the fear, the bewilderment, the gnawing need for acceptance, the lack of purpose and the open hands searching for it, she wrote in a project description. On the other hand, there is institutionalized militarization, there is patriotism, group identities, the stripping of traditional adolescent freedom, the talk of war and the play of war. Born and raised in Minneapolis, Ms. Blesener studied youth development and had intended to become a youth worker until she decided to move to New York and study photography. Teenagers have been the subjects of all her projects, including a long-term story on the friendship of four teenage boys in the South Bronx. The programs she found in Russia were well known by the public and encouraged by the government. Here, Ms. Blesener said, similar programs go unadvertised and are difficult to find. She was surprised to discover that there were twice as many young people enrolled in these programs here than in Russia. They gave a range of reasons for joining, including plans to seek a military career, parental pressure, following their friends or just wanting to learn to shoot a gun for fun, Ms. Blesener said.Patriotism permeates our politics, our culture, our everyday life, she wrote. As do accusations of unpatriotic behavior. Of course, the word patriot tends to just be code for someone who shares our beliefs. And Americans are incredibly patriotic people. But where a sense of pride, and love, of your country, your beliefs, your community — turns into a sense of superiority, to aggression — this is nationalism. Sarah Bleseners project was supported by grants from the Alexia Foundation and the Catchlight Foundation, and in partnership with Reveal from the Center for Investigative Reporting.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Sarah Blesener is on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.James Estrin, the co-editor of Lens, joined The Times as a photographer in 1992 after years of freelancing for the newspaper and hundreds of other publications.  @JamesEstrinAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kim SeversonThe chef and television personality Tom Colicchio, who has become something of a prototype for the politically active chef, is leaving Food Policy Action, the organization he helped found in 2012.He announced his departure from the groups board on Thursday on Instagram and Twitter, saying his resignation was effective immediately.The split appears to be a result of what might best be described as creative differences. In an interview on Friday, Mr. Colicchio said he was frustrated with the core work of the organization, which analyzes food policy and lobbies for broad changes to encourage the production of more affordable, healthier and ethically produced food, as well as economic help for workers.I think lobbying efforts around food arent going to work, and Id rather spend my time trying to change Congress instead of shouting into the void, he said. Heading into the midterms, Id rather spend my time getting better people elected.Mr. Colicchio hasnt announced who those candidates are, but said he is studying several potential races.Im looking for people who have a message around food and changing the food system writ large, he said. We have to look at this through more of an economic lens and the disparity that forces more and more people to look toward processed foods.He leaves with some muted regret about the organization. I feel bad because I helped create it, but I feel good about the work theyre doing, he said.Mr. Colicchio created the organization with Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group. I have nothing but positive things to say about Tom, Mr. Cook said. He has come into these fights and been incredibly effective. My view is he wants to focus on other approaches to this issue.Each year, Food Policy Action releases a scorecard that ranks members of Congress according to how they voted on food issues. The group recently expanded its focus to the executive branch, and on Monday will convene  a public panel in Washington with chefs and members of environmental, animal-rights and farmworker organizations to analyze the Trump administrations potential impact on food policy.Theres a lot to say about the threat to good food and food policy by this administration, Mr. Cook said.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.AdvertisementBy JONAH ENGEL BROMWICHJAN. 31, 2018
When we asked readers last week to suggest new names for the generation after millennials, we received thousands of replies, both from those we had called on (22 and under) and those we hadnt (everyone else).Hundreds wrote in only to ask why we had bothered. They argued that this was an empty exercise.Kiernan Majerus-Collins, the 22-year-old chairman of the Democratic Party in Lewiston, Me., wrote: Dont call us anything. The whole notion of cohesive generations is nonsense.It was the second-most popular comment on our Facebook post. He has a point. Malcolm Harris, the author I interviewed for the original reader callout, described those jostling to coin a lasting name as hacks and salesmen. (Hes 29, a year older than I am.)Mr. Harris, an editor for The New Inquiry, is more amenable in his book, Kids These Days: Human Capital and the Making of Millennials, which makes a case that these labels help explain the political, economic and social trends that shape our lives.AdvertisementI do believe that it is useful, or can be useful, clearly, he said. It can also be less than useless.AdvertisementWell get to some of the least useless suggestions below, but first here are some of the broad trends revealed by the approximately 3,000 responses submitted on Facebook, Twitter, our website and directly to my email.There was plenty of support for widely publicized names already coined for the generation born, roughly, between 1995 and 2015: Generation Z, Homeland Generation, Post-Millennials and iGeneration.A significant minority had grown comfortable with Generation Z, including Raquel Glassner, 22, of Olympia, Wash.Ive never heard iGeneration before, but that is really horrendous, she said. Our whole generation shouldnt be branded by Apple. Gen Z is the final generation of the 1900s, and a generational title using the last letter in the alphabet seems fitting.(It should be noted that iGeneration or iGen, a name coined by the social psychologist Jean Twenge, had plenty of fans. Dr. Twenge herself chimed in on Twitter: You know my answer.)The youngest respondent I tracked down was Mari Sobota, 8, a third-grader in Madison, Wis., who wrote in to say that her generation would be known for girl power!Mari, 8, could identify an obvious generational difference between her and her 12-year-old sister Cassandra, and their mother, Carousel Bayrd. We both like cotton candy, and my mom hates that, she said.AdvertisementThe oldest respondent to give her age was 91-year-old Annette Benedict, of the Bronx. I figure youre not an ageist, she wrote, a gambit that all but ensured her inclusion. Her suggested name was The Thumbies, for the digit used to operate smartphones. I think that suits them, she said, chuckling, when I called her.A significant number rejected the age ranges we selected, especially 22-year-olds who consider themselves millennials, like Zach Witkin, of Providence, R.I., who said he could clearly recall Sept. 11, 2001, an unforgettable day for many older respondents. He was 6 then.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Maybe we could make a firm cut-off just beyond 1995? he suggested.Others were glad to escape a generational label  so tarnished by, yes, the media.The most popular Facebook comment came from Alexandra Della Santina, 22, an engineer at Boeing in Philadelphia.I wouldnt mind being called Generation Scapegoat, she wrote. It would be kind of the tongue-in-cheek dry humor that I see in this generation. And when baby boomers and Generation X or Y or whatever decide to start using us as punching bags instead of millennials, its gonna be much harder to whine about us if theyre forced to call us The Scapegoats.Roshan Mueller, 11, was one of many to suggest the Meme Generation. I think it goes with how our generation goes through life, he explained in a phone interview, with his mom listening in. We go through life fast. And just like that, memes spread fast.We also heard from multiple people suggesting Memelords, Memennials and Generation Snap. Also, the Hopeful Generation, the Anxious Generation, Generation Fix-It and The Cleaner-Uppers. Some simply wrote Doomed. The Last Generation and the Final Generation were also popular.Andrea Habiba, 15, of Houston, suggested the Sisu Generation. Sisu is a Finnish word that roughly translate to determination in the face of adversity, and my generation will be facing many adversity such as fixing the economy, global warming, the threat of terrorism and so on, she wrote.Benton Molina, 21, of Athens, Ohio, suggested we call the new youngs Spimes. The term, coined by the science fiction author Bruce Sterling, refers to an object hooked into the internet of things: aware of its environment, constantly documenting itself, its existence mirrored in the cloud.AdvertisementPost-millenials share these characteristics, Mr. Molina observed. They are central units in small, personal clusters of technological nodes (made of both people and machines) who leave a data trail throughout their entire lives.But we had a favorite. Four separate people suggested Deltas or the Delta Generation. Kelsy Hillesheim, a 22-year-old New Yorker, provided the most thoughtful explanation.Delta is used to denote change and uncertainty in mathematics and the sciences, and my generation was shaped by change and uncertainty, she explained, mentioning terror attacks, wars, the Great Recession and the 2016 election. I do not have much memory of a sustained time of stability, and Im on the older end of what youre looking for, though I imagine this is also the case for younger deltas.We take nothing for granted, she continued. We were kids when our parents lost their jobs in the recession. We also are a generation of demographic shift — we are more diverse than any in American history. We generally see it as something to embrace, and welcome changes that could make for a more inclusive and just America.Delta also implies members of this generation will be agents of change, not just people reacting to it, she said. We are not passive products of circumstance, but active members of society with agency to affect the course of history, and will to build each other up to make things better, she added. We know all too well that adults arent doing so today.Continue to make suggestions to Jonah by tweeting, preferably in all caps so hes sure to see it: @JonesiemanA version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: What to Call Post-Millennials? Maybe None of the Above.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
City Kitchen By                     
 DAVID TANIS
 
JAN. 26, 2018
Some soups are delicate, light and refreshing, served as the prelude to a meal. Others, like this one, are hearty and nourishing meals in themselves. It is not precisely a soup, but a soupy concoction of potatoes and pasta, known throughout Italy as pasta e patate.This is an example of the countrys bare-cupboard cuisine, la cucina povera, in which inexpensive basics are transformed with small jolts of flavor from aged cheese, dried chiles, herb pastes and the like. Thrifty but flavorful, its principal aim is to feed a family during times when funds are tight. (If no potatoes were in the pantry, you could make a similar soup with beans or lentils.)Humble, but not spartan, many dishes from this tradition are also exceedingly delicious.Here, you soften an onion in a hot pan with a generous glug of olive oil, then add chopped potatoes, salt, a garlic clove, a rosemary sprig and water. When the potatoes are done, a handful of pasta goes in, and when the pasta is al dente, you ladle this steaming, chunky marvel of a soup into bowls. Pass the grated pecorino and Parmigiano, a cruet of oil, the pepper mill and crushed red pepper.Thats the bare-bones version. There are any number of regional variations, of course, and every cook is at liberty to customize according to whim. Some might add, for example, more vegetables, like celery and carrot; some tomato, a little or a lot; bacon or pancetta or ham; beef or chicken broth; or, as in my recipe, a large quantity of chopped kale.AdvertisementThough the soup could be made from start to finish and served right away, you can make it several hours, or even a day, in advance. This allows for the flavors to meld and for the potatoes to break down a bit. But since you dont want the pasta to be overcooked, cook it separately, and stir it in as a final step. Small, textured pasta shapes, like pennette, orecchiette or rigatoncini are the best choice. For potatoes, I like yellow-fleshed ones like Yukon or German Butterball, but russets will suffice.As for the double-carbohydrate, starch-on-starch nature of this soup, I regard it as a satisfying win-win.AdvertisementRecipe: Italian Potato-Pasta Soup With GreensFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: A Satisfying Soup From the Italian Pantry.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

 Andrew Ross Sorkin
 

DEALBOOK
JAN. 29, 2018
Ever since Kenneth I. Chenault announced last fall that he would retire as chief executive of American Express, he has been fielding phone calls from companies looking to hire him.Its not surprising. Mr. Chenault is one of the most prominent African-American chief executives in the world and the man who led American Express through 9/11 and the financial crisis. When it came to selecting his next act, he was bound to have a wide variety of choices.In the last two weeks, he has announced he was joining the boards of Facebook and Airbnb. And for the last several weeks, hes been trying to keep one more secret — perhaps his biggest — about his future plans.Youre right, he said. I literally have been inundated, he reluctantly acknowledged, almost embarrassed, when we spoke Monday. People have talked to me about some very large companies and some digital technology companies. Obviously, I cant say from a confidentiality standpoint.AdvertisementThe recruiters can stop calling. On Tuesday, he will announce he has a new full-time job. Mr. Chenault, a name long synonymous with Wall Street, will soon become a staple of Silicon Valley as a venture capitalist. He will be chairman and managing director of General Catalyst Partners, one of the most successful venture firms of the past two decades, with stakes in companies like Airbnb, Snap, Stripe and Warby Parker.AdvertisementMr. Chenault s choice to jump into the world of start-ups is more than just a business decision; to him, it is an opportunity to have a larger impact on Silicon Valley and its business culture.As he assessed his opportunities, he became convinced that the tech start-up world had often come up short in meeting societys challenges.This area, he said, is where he hopes he can have an impact.Consider Mr. Chenault some much-needed adult supervision.What I think is happening right now in the digital space is a maturation cycle and some people, as weve seen, are going to handle that well and some people are going to crash and burn, he said, without naming names.Of course, he could be talking about any of a host of companies, like Uber, Google or Facebook, the latter of which is facing a revolt among consumers and possibly regulators over the way fake news proliferates on its site.Venture capital firms themselves are not exempt from these problems, as my colleague Katie Benner chronicled last summer with a striking exposé of harassment by powerful investors.Given their age and the scale and size and impact that they can have on our society, unless they make a step up, we are going to have some serious problems, Mr. Chenault said. And we do have serious problems.AdvertisementCompanies are starting to realize that they are growing up, and in growing up, they have to assume some broader responsibilities, he added. Companies are at different stages, from a self awareness standpoint, in accepting that reality.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Chenaults management skills may be a perfect fit for the role General Catalyst needs him to fill. As start-ups are staying private longer, venture capital firms are finding that someone has to actually run the companies they invest in, to think beyond the early stages of fast growth — and a quick sale or initial public offering — and to help them scale over a decade.The median time to I.P.O. has risen dramatically over the last decade, from 4.9 years in 2006 to 8.3 years in 2016, according to a report from Pitchbook, a data company that tracks deals. Airbnb has been private for 10 years, Uber for nine.When Mr. Chenault joined Airbnbs board last week, a company co-founder, Brian Chesky, whom Mr. Chenault has mentored for years, wrote a note to employees announcing the appointment. Many companies are designed to be finite, Mr. Chesky wrote. Finite companies are focused on beating their competitors and appeasing short-term interests. But business is not finite. Unlike sports, there is no time clock, so there can be no winning or losing — there is merely surviving and innovating to endure.Mr. Chenault believes there is real value in trying to influence start-ups early in their life cycle, so that patience and foresight become embedded in the DNA.One problem Mr. Chenault wants to address — conspicuous to anyone paying attention, but bafflingly inconspicuous to those in the Valley — is the lack of diversity, both in gender and race, in the tech industry.Diversity in the technology digital industry is a big issue, he said. If we dont make accelerated progress in that area, it will have dire consequences for our society.It is even worse in the venture capital industry, where there are few women and even fewer African-Americans.The numbers are embarrassing and depressing: African-Americans make up only 3 percent of the venture capital work force, according to a study conducted in 2016 by the National Venture Capital Association and Deloitte University Leadership Center for Inclusion. Latinos represented only 4 percent of the venture capital industry.AdvertisementMr. Chenault said he has known some of founding partners at General Catalyst for more than 20 years, including David Fialkow and Joel Cutler, who have been business partners since they met as children at Camp Cedar (a summer camp in Maine that I also attended). The fund, which has some $3.75 billion, was founded in Cambridge, Mass., in 1999 and has offices in New York; Palo Alto, Calif.; and San Francisco. Mr. Chenault said he would be based in New York.In addition to Facebook and Airbnb, he is also on the boards of IBM and Procter & Gamble, which gives him insight into whats going on in the economy. He acknowledged that there might be times he has to recuse himself from dealing with board issues that conflict with one of the investments General Catalyst makes.But at this stage of his career, he believes a move to venture capital is the right vehicle to try to make a difference. Mr. Chenault hopes to help companies not just make long-term plans, but to think about their role in society.Venture capital firms have to be more catalytic agents of change not just in the business development, he said, but in helping change the culture in the technology digital sector so there is a greater focus on the responsibilities they have.A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: In Second Act, Venture Capital With a Twist.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By VICTOR MATHERFEB. 19, 2018
On the list of snowboarding events for this years Winter Olympics, alongside the now familiar halfpipe and slopestyle, is a new competition with a short but evocative name: big air.The name is accurate. Everything about the event is big. And the dizzying heights achieved by the snowboarders more than justify the air.In big air, snowboarders slide down a 49-meter tall ramp (Pyeongchangs is the biggest in the world) that curls up at the end and shoots them into the sky, seemingly forever, allowing particularly spectacular tricks.Unlike, say, slopestyle, in which athletes go down a course and have several chances to show off tricks, big air is all about the one jump, the one big, spectacular stunt.AdvertisementFor the mens favorite Mark McMorris of Canada, theres a trick that even someone new to the sport can probably guess is a doozy: the backside triple cork 1440. He does four full rotations (1440) and basically turns upside down three times (triple). And, oh yes, he has to land without falling.Snowboarders get three jumps; their best two count.The event has been contested at the world championships and the X Games since 2003, but is making its Olympic debut in Pyeongchang.AdvertisementSnowboarding has been growing at the Games. It made its debut in 1998, with two events each for men and women, and now is up to five.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Like most so-called extreme sports, injuries are a big part of big air.The crazy part about what Im doing is I get injured so much and still — every time Im laying down there, all I want is to get back on my feet, which I think a lot of people think is crazy, said the womens favorite Anna Gasser of Austria.Gasser competed in slopestyle at the Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, four years ago, and fell twice, finishing 10th. I was pretty young and inexperienced, she said. And the expectations went so high overnight. I think, as such a young athlete, I wasnt used to that. I wasnt used to having crazy media attention like everyone — I remember I should have never opened my Facebook. I had a million messages. A million friend requests. I didnt realize until that moment how big the Olympics were, and I think that made me nervous and also made me fall in the finals.A former gymnast, Gasser has completed a backside double cork 1080.McMorris and Gasser will be challenged by a strong American team, including Chris Corning, 18, and Ryan Stassel, 25. The United States has won five of 12 medals in the mens World Cup this year.The American womens team includes Jamie Anderson, who won a gold medal in slopestyle four years ago; Julia Marino; and 17-year-old Hailey Langland, the X Games champion, who will also be showing off a double cork 1080.A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2018, on Page B15 of the New York edition with the headline: Big Ramp, Big Slide, Big Air.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JAN RANSOMFEB. 18, 2018
A woman fell to her death from a fifth-floor window of a Harlem housing development on Saturday, moments after the police arrived in response to an emergency call, the police said.Officers were responding to a 911 call at 70 Lenox Avenue, one of several buildings at the Martin Luther King Jr. Towers, for a violation of an order of protection, when they spotted Quanneisha Baskerville, 30, hanging from the window ledge just after noon, the police said.She had stopped by her estranged boyfriends apartment to drop off their three children, ages 4, 9 and 10, when his roommate called 911, the police said. She was in the bedroom with two of the children; one child opened the apartment door to allow the officers inside, the police said.The officers entered the apartment and spotted Ms. Baskerville outside of the window before she fell, the police said. Emergency responders transported her to Mount Sinai St. Lukes Hospital, where she died. The Police Departments 28th Precinct is investigating the death.AdvertisementThe court filed the order of protection against Ms. Baskerville, according to the police. Ms. Baskerville faced assault and harassment charges after being accused of kicking in his apartment door and damaging the lock on Jan. 26. Later that day, she punched him in the face and bloodied his lip, according to a complaint filed in Manhattan Criminal Court.AdvertisementHer boyfriend did not respond to requests for comment.On Facebook, a woman who identified herself as Ms. Baskervilles sister wrote: Im really lost for words. I️ lost my little sister yesterday. This news has hit me so hard. Quanneisha Im going to miss you. Love you always your big sister.Ms. Baskerville lived near her childrens father in another building within the housing complex. A 15-year-old boy who lives on the same floor as Ms. Baskerville and whose guardian requested his name not be used said he saw the mother-of-three hanging from the window.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The cops came and told her to get off the window sill, he said. By the time the big police van came she jumped. She landed on her back.He said he heard officers shouting from inside the apartment: Get off the window sill. You dont have to do this.Ms. Baskervilles neighbors said she often fought with her childrens father, but was an attentive mother.Id see her taking her kids to school in the morning, said Cristina Segarra, 33. She say, Fix your clothes, fix your sneakers, were going to be late. Im still in shock.Brenda Deleston, 72, who lived next door to Ms. Baskerville, said the young mother didnt take no stuff.The wall would be banging. Shed be in there boxing, Ms. Deleston said referring to the fights she overheard. I miss that banging and fussing and arguing. I prayed it wasnt her.Ashley Southall contributed reporting.Follow Jan Ransom on Twitter: @Jan_RansomA version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Woman Falls to Her Death in Harlem As Police Respond to a Call About Her.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By THE NEW YORK TIMES

JAN. 29, 2018

Tens of millions of fake accounts infest the world's social media platforms. Is one of those fake accounts impersonating you?In a recent article, The New York Times detailed a global black market in stolen social identities. These stolen identities — names, pictures, hometowns, and other personal information ripped from real peoples' social media profiles — are the raw material for many "bots," automated accounts bought and sold in bulk, sometimes by celebrities and entrepreneurs eager to bulk up their apparent influence on social media platforms.We'd like to know if you have ever come across your personal information being used on a fake account on Twitter, Facebook or any other platform. Our goal is to understand how well these social media companies police their own platforms for social identify theft and impersonation.If you've ever reported stolen personal information or an impersonation attempt on social media, please let us know using the form below. Your name and comments may be published, but your contact information will not. A Times reporter or editor may contact you to hear more about your story.First and last preferred, please.City and state, or city and country, please.We will not share your email address. A reporter or editor might call you to hear more about your story. By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, does not plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, does not violate anyones rights and is not libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to our Terms of Service.Thank you for your submission.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLensBy James EstrinChang W. Lee cried as he photographed the opening of the Winter Olympic Games.He had grown up in Busan, South Korea, where his parents rarely spoke about the war that cleaved his homeland in two. His mother had fled the North, leaving behind family members; his paternal uncle was never seen again after being taken prisoner by the North. In elementary school, his teachers had him draw posters and write essays against the communists.Now, in an emotional homecoming he could never have imagined, Mr. Lee has returned to cover the Winter Games for The New York Times. Even harder to believe was the sight of a unified team of women hockey players from North and South Korea as they entered the stadium. We are the same people, Mr. Lee said in a phone call from Korea this week. Unification will probably not happen anytime soon but we dont have to be literally unified to be able to communicate with our relatives on the other side and have activities together. These are the eighth Olympics Mr. Lee has covered for The New York Times, even though he had little interest in sports when he moved to the United States after a semester of college. And even though the 1988 Summer Games were in Seoul, he didnt have the time to watch them on television, since he was busy delivering pizzas in New Jersey to pay his way through English classes. He just knew something big was happening.I heard people screaming from their homes, he recalled. But I was just delivering the pizza.He went on to study photography at New York University and landed a photo internship at The Times in 1994 before being promoted to staff photographer a few months later. And though he started with little knowledge of many American sports, he quickly became an expert sports photographer. He covered his first Olympics in Nagano, Japan, in 1998, where the spectacle and the drama motivated him to photograph as many Olympic Games as possible ever since.I love to cover the Olympics because its really about human drama, he said. These athletes go through extreme hardship and devote so much of their lives to compete in a short period of time that will define their career. To witness that and to be able to capture those moments is a great gift to me and a privilege to be able to do it. His obsession with capturing the perfect moment at the Olympics at times rivals the obsession of the athletes themselves. Two thirds of his job, he said, is making sure everything is working so he can actually take the pictures the rest of the time.At these Olympics, his focus will be on figure skating and ice hockey. Mr. Lee has set up two remote cameras at the skating arena and two more at the hockey rink. He had already scouted the figure skating venue in Pyeongchang a year ago in order to familiarize himself with the location. He also went to the American figure skating trials in order to study the athletes and their routines.To successfully photograph the Olympics, he said, you have to plan, prepare and want it more than anyone else and never give up, two traits he knows well from his personal journey. Planning and patience may be the foundation, but once the event begins, instinct takes over. There is a purely meditative aspect to being a great sports photographer and a feeling of being solely in the moment. Anticipation is critical for capturing the moments that happen so fast. Its really being able to see whats going to happen before it happens, Mr. Lee said. If you wait until you see it with your own eyes, many times its too late.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Chang Lee is on Twitter and Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.  James Estrin, the co-editor of Lens, joined The Times as a photographer in 1992 after years of freelancing for the newspaper and hundreds of other publications.  @JamesEstrinAdvertisement
Wordplay By                     
 DEB AMLEN
 
FEB. 21, 2018
THURSDAY PUZZLE — Brains are funny. You can sit me down in front of a rebus puzzle like Wednesdays by Ori Brian and Zach Spitz and I wont make much headway for a long time. But you want me to write the answers into the grid backward? I got you. Im there. I see what youre doing.Your mileage, as always, may vary. I admire people who can spot a rebus a mile away. But today was my day. Today I raced through a Thursday puzzle as if it were written for me, and maybe you did, too. My point is this: We all have days when we own the puzzle, and we all have days when the puzzle owns us. Dont give up.That doesnt mean it was easy. It took some doing to get where Zhouqin Burnikel was going with this theme, but once I got it, a whoop escaped my mouth and I was off. This was a very clever theme with a terrific Aha! moment. And I didnt need to backtrack at all.The revealer in Ms. Burnikels puzzle is at 60A, a great place for the punch line of a puzzle where the grid has some weird stuff going on above it. The clue is Backtracking … or what 17-, 27- and 46-Across are doing? and the answer is REVERSING COURSE.AdvertisementThats a nice, in-the-language phrase, but how does it apply to the seemingly nonsensical theme entries? For one thing, all three theme entries are types of COURSEs: One is a golf course, one is a school math course and one is the course of a meal.AdvertisementThat in itself is a nice find, but this is Thursday and we have more business to finish. Since we are REVERSING COURSE, we need to write the theme entries into the grid backward, yes? So, Augusta National golf course becomes LANOITAN ATSUGUA. Did you get the other two?1A: I wanted this to be FRIEND instead of ADD ME, since FRIEND has become a verb in the world of social media (as in Why dont you friend me?), but we didnt have enough squares.33A: I did not know Minnesota Senator AMY Klobuchar, but this may be the first time shes been a clue in the puzzle. She is also the first woman elected to represent the State of Minnesota in the United States Senate.36A: My brain shuts down automatically with clues like this, but Ive found that the answer to flashbacks to high school math terror is to take a deep breath and go slowly. If you have a pie and you plan to Divide into 120° sections, say, you will be cutting it into thirds (360° divided by 3 is 120°), so the answer is TRISECT.43A: I had REF until the crossings told me the answer to One who might be second-guessed by instant replays was UMP.68A: The answer to What bagpipes are often played in is not Scotland, at least not today. Today, the answer is KILTS.1D: I should know this. Alfred ADLER has appeared in the crossword many times.3D: DONT PANIC is a phrase from my favorite book, The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, and a Coldplay song as well:6D: Having hands, in a way is a sneaky way to clue ANALOG. This clue is talking about the hands on an ANALOG clock.Advertisement11D: ORGAN donation is a wonderful Non-monetary donation. There is a scene from Monty Pythons The Meaning of Life that involves liver donations, but its fairly grisly, so Im not linking to it here. You can see it on YouTube if you so desire.24D: EROS was the Greek god of love, and therefore a Match maker?31D: Seeing the N.R.A. in the puzzle can be jolting (for me, your mileage etc., etc.). For those who wonder why its there, it is the philosophy of the puzzle editors that the puzzle should reflect real life, and that entries like N.R.A. are part of that.Will and the team helped me with the current theme set. I originally had SOUP OR SALAD (later on CAESAR SALAD/CHICKEN SOUP). They gently let me know that those were dishes rather than courses.One of the things I hope solvers take away from our solving guide is that mental flexibility is one of the important keys to becoming a good puzzle solver, and that its possible to improve that flexibility at any time of life. In a recent interview with U.S.A. Table Tennis, crossword editor Will Shortz revealed that being willing to make a major change in the way he plays table tennis — his other passion besides puzzles — may pay off in the long run.When Mr. Shortz found himself at a plateau in his table tennis game a couple of years ago, he tried something new: He gave up his lifelong Seemiller paddle grip and began using the more conventional shakehands grip. The change came with a sacrifice.It was a radical change, almost like starting over, Mr. Shortz said in the interview. My skill dropped to about a 1000 level. And getting comfortable with the new grip wasnt the biggest issue. I also had to change my mind-set and style of play. But 18 months later, Im fighting my way back. With my old grip, my USATT rating had peaked at 1943. Im hoping eventually to get back to that level and then beyond.When you get frustrated while solving, stop and think about what you can change about your mind-set and way of looking at the clues. Its good for your streak, and its good for you. I think that periodically rewiring the brain is a good thing, he says.And remember that youre not alone. While youre improving your flexibility, Will Shortz is, too.Looking for an excuse to solve during your lunch break? Assistant puzzles editor Sam Ezersky and I solve the Thursday crossword live on Facebook with a few of our friends.Solving together is better, so join us at 1 p.m. every week and help us crush these puzzles.Almost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you.AdvertisementWarning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key.Your thoughts?Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

      By THE NEW YORK TIMES

JAN. 29, 2018

Tens of millions of fake accounts infest the world's social media platforms. Is one of those fake accounts impersonating you?In a recent article, The New York Times detailed a global black market in stolen social identities. These stolen identities — names, pictures, hometowns, and other personal information ripped from real peoples' social media profiles — are the raw material for many "bots," automated accounts bought and sold in bulk, sometimes by celebrities and entrepreneurs eager to bulk up their apparent influence on social media platforms.We'd like to know if you have ever come across your personal information being used on a fake account on Twitter, Facebook or any other platform. Our goal is to understand how well these social media companies police their own platforms for social identify theft and impersonation.If you've ever reported stolen personal information or an impersonation attempt on social media, please let us know using the form below. Your name and comments may be published, but your contact information will not. A Times reporter or editor may contact you to hear more about your story.First and last preferred, please.City and state, or city and country, please.We will not share your email address. A reporter or editor might call you to hear more about your story. By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, does not plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, does not violate anyones rights and is not libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to our Terms of Service.Thank you for your submission.AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 14, 2018
Good Wednesday. Heres what were watching:• Fears of overheating may be overdone.• Goldman adds a new co-head of global M.&A.• Expect Wall Street to keep worrying about inflation.• Finra is looking into potential misconduct involving the VIX.• The Justice Departments antitrust chief may be called as a witness in the Time Warner lawsuit.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.Wall Street is worried about inflation right now – and a government report on Wednesday likely didnt quell those concerns.The consumer price index rose by 2.1 percent rise in January, faster than Wall Street analysts expected. The core index, which excludes food and energy, also came in above forecasts, prompting Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan, to describe it as hotter than Hades.AdvertisementWhile the stock market shrugged off the jump in inflation, bond markets got a bit of a jolt. The yield on the bellwether 10-year Treasury note rose above 2.9 percent on Wednesday, well above the 2.4 percent at which it finished last year.AdvertisementThe scary take on higher yields: To some, the bond market is a particularly prescient predictor of economic trends. So is it picking up on an inflationary surge that the Federal Reserve likely will take too long to recognize? If theres a scenario guaranteed to scare investors, its one in which the Fed, caught out by inflation, has to frantically jack up interest rates.But the overheating fears may be overdone. The January inflation report was hardly conclusive. Mr. Feroli of JPMorgan, waving away sulfurous fumes for a second, said that the January increase probably overstates the underlying trend.Indeed, the index overshot expectations because two items — clothing and medical services — had very strong increases, according to Pantheon Macroeconomics. Clothing was due for a big rebound because it seemed to lag a lot in recent months, Pantheon asserted. As for medical services, the jump there came from hospital costs, which Pantheon described as very erratic.The economy may not be as strong as it looks. It wasnt too long ago that the prevailing view on Wall Street was that the economy was stuck with sluggish growth and perennially low inflation. And even though there are reasons to believe the United States economy is breaking out of that rut – big tax cuts and a revival of the global economy – it may not be as vibrant as it looks.The analysts at Hoisington Investment Management have in recent years highlighted stubborn weaknesses in the United States economy, and the firm still sees significant problems. They note, for instance, that disposable personal incomes, adjusted for inflation, only rose by 1.9 percent last year, an increase that was supported by borrowing. And consumers lack of spending power may explain the weak retail sales that came out on Wednesday.Bond yields may not rise much from here. Since the financial crisis of 2008, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note has risen in anticipation of an economic surge, only to fall again. That pattern may reoccur. Steven Major, global head of fixed-income research at HSBC, expects the yield on the 10-year Treasury to be at 2.3 percent by the end of the year, well below this weeks level. He notes that, over the past decade, actual inflation has been significantly lower than the level implied by the price of the 10-year Treasury note and other Treasury securities. My point is that higher inflation is already in the price, Mr. Major said in an email.— Peter EavisThe Securities and Exchange Commission requires investment managers with more than $100 million in assets to file an update of their holdings within 45 days of the end of each quarter.AdvertisementWell, today is the 45th day, and here are some highlights from the holdings of some of the biggest hedge funds as of Dec. 31.Berkshire Hathaway (via Bloomberg)• Sold nearly all of its IBM stake• Added more to its Apple holding• Made a new investment in TevaJana Partners (via Bloomberg)• Took new stakes in Comcast, Facebook and General Mortors• Exited Salesforce.com and OracleThird Point (via Bloomberg)• Took new stakes in Netflix and Intercontinental Exchange• Exited its positions in Bank of America, T-Mobile US and Shire.Appaloosa Management (via Bloomberg)• Tripled its stake in Apple• Almost doubled its holding of FacebookElliott Management (via Bloomberg)• Pared its stake in Alcoa by almost two-thirdsSoros Fund Management• Sold its stake in AlcoaPaulson & Co.• Maintained its stake in SPDR Gold SharesMoore Capital Management• Added to its Apple stakeTiger Global ManagementAdvertisement• Increased its Facebook stake• Lowered its stake in NetflixLone Pine Capital• Added to its Amazon wager.• Took a stake in Google-parent Alphabet• Reduced its Facebook stakeCoatue Management• Reduce its stake in Apple and FacebookMaverick Capital• Lowered its stakes in Facebook and AlphabetThe investment bank named Dusty Philip as a co-head of its global mergers team. The 27-year Goldman veteran joins Michael Carr and Gilberto Pozzi, the current co-heads of the group.Mr. Philip was most recently co-head of the global industrials banking team, and before that, he was a co-head of Americas M.&A. with Mr. Carr.Matt McClure, who currently is co-head of Americas M.&A., will replace Mr. Philip as co-head of the industrials group, working alongside Clare Scherrer.A spokeswoman for Goldman confirmed the appointments.The stats• Goldman ranks sixth among M.&A. advisers so far this year, according to Thomson Reuters, with 34 deals valued at $55.9 billion.• The firm placed first among deal advisers last year, with 409 transactions worth $949 billion.• Overall, deals worth nearly $380 billion have been announced this year, up 9 percent from the same time last year.The memo about Mr. PhilipWe are pleased to announce that Dusty Philip will become co-head of Global Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) alongside Michael Carr and Gilberto Pozzi. Michael, Dusty and Gilberto will work together to lead this important client franchise by driving our premier merger market share position, implementing important strategic initiatives, and further strengthening and developing our global team.Dusty is currently co-head of the Global Industrials Group. Previously, he was co-head of M&A in the Americas. Dusty is a member of the IBD Executive Committee. He joined Goldman Sachs in 1991 and was named managing director in 1999 and partner in 2000.Please join us in congratulating Dusty and wishing him continued success.Gregg LemkauJohn WaldronMarc NachmannThe memo about Mr. McClureWe are pleased to announce that Matt McClure will become co-head of the Global Industrials (IND) Group alongside Clare Scherrer. Matt and Clare will work to refine and enhance INDs global strategy with a focus on continuing to drive our leadership position across Global Industrials, strengthening client relationships, identifying commercial opportunities, and developing our global team.Matt is currently head of Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) in the Americas. Previously, he was head of Industrials M&A. Matt will join the IBD Executive Committee. He joined Goldman Sachs in 1999 and was named managing director in 2007 and partner in 2010.Please join us in congratulating Matt and wishing him continued success.Gregg LemkauJohn WaldronMarc Nachmann— Michael de la MercedThe mortgage-finance giant reported a net loss of $6.5 billion for the fourth quarter, and said it would seek an infusion of $3.7 billion from the Treasury Department as a result, the WSJ reports.AdvertisementThe loss was driven by a one-time $9.9 billion charge related to the new tax law.The issue is that Fannie has been under government conservatorship since the financial crisis. Under the agreement, Fannie sends nearly all its profits to the government in the form of a dividend and operates with a limited capital buffer.After the quarters planned infusion, Fannie will have sent $166.4 billion to the Treasury Department in total, compared with the $119.8 billion it has received from the government, according to the WSJ.The Consumer Price Index, a government yardstick of inflation, jumped 2.1 percent in January, from a year earlier. That is slightly above the 2 percent rate that Wall Street economists, surveyed by Bloomberg, forecast. The January rate is equal to Decembers increase of 2.1 percent.The number didnt roil the markets, but they did move lower.The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction to its prices, jumped to 2.87 percent after the inflation figure came out. Yields rise when prices fall.The United States stocks market opened down with the Standard & Poors 500 index off 0.3 percent.Inflation fears were perhaps the main cause of the recent plunge in the stock market. After an unexpectedly strong rise in wages, investors became concerned that costs of producing goods and services might be rising, which could in turn prompt the Fed to raise interest rates more quickly than anticipated. Higher interest rates make stocks look like less attractive investments – and, in the longer run, they can slow down the economy and erode companies earnings.— Peter EavisFinra, Wall Streets self-regulatory agency, is looking into it. Its unclear whether this is a formal investigation, but the discovery of any misconduct would be a black eye for the CBOE, which runs the Volatility Index.One theory is that someone could have swayed the VIX through bets on S. & P. 500 options.More from Gunjan Banerji of the WSJ:Last week, the resurgence of market volatility triggered a spike in the VIX and the collapse of a widely traded E.T.P. that buys and sells VIX futures. The E.T.P.s demise helped send CBOEs shares sliding 18 percent over the next four days amid speculation that losses like those suffered by the E.T.P.s investors could lead to greater regulatory scrutiny for the VIX going forward.The markets flyaround• The recent volatility helped Credit Suisses trading results, while Lloyd Blankfein is embracing it as a way to bolster Goldman Sachss trading unit.Advertisement• An Uber driver convinced the hedge fund manager Paul Britton that the Goldilocks bet on market calm was poised to unravel. (Bloomberg)• Pierre-Henri Flamand, chief investment officer of the Man Group, warned against buying stocks in market dips for now. (Bloomberg)The telecom giant wants to call Makan Delrahim, the Justice Departments antitrust chief, as a witness in the governments lawsuit seeking to block the deal. The goal: to probe for political motivations.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More from our colleague Cecilia Kang, who broke the story:AT&T has also asked for internal communications between Mr. Delrahims office and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, according to two people with knowledge about companys demands. As part of that request, AT&T has asked for email, phone and other communications between the White House and officials in the Justice Department, the people said.The strategy isnt without risks. It could blow up in their face if the assistant attorney general is a credible witness for the legitimate challenge of the merger, Gene Kimmelman, a former Justice Department official who has been critical of the deal, said.The deal flyaround• Mini-I.P.O.s allowed under the JOBS Act havent performed well. (Barrons)• Broadcom is now seeking six seats on Qualcomms board, rather than the full 11. (NYT)• Darwin Deason, one of Xeroxs top investors, has sued to block its deal with Fujifilm. (FT)• SkyBridge Capital, Anthony Scaramuccis investment firm, expects regulators to tell it by the end of the month whether theyll block its sale to the HNA Group. (Reuters)• JD.com of China will raise about $2.5 billion by selling a stake in its logistics unit to Hillhouse Capital, Tencent and other investment firms. (Bloomberg)• Danone agreed to sell some of its stake in the Japanese yogurt maker Yakult for about $1.8 billion, amid pressure from Corvex Capital Management. (Bloomberg)AdvertisementLate last year, Mr. Case and his venture capital firm, Revolution, teamed up with J.D. Vance, author of Hillbilly Elegy, to create the $150 million fund to find promising start-ups outside of Silicon Valley, New York and Boston, in which to invest.Today Revolution announced the Rise of the Rests first round of investments:AppHarvest (Pikeville, KY)Catalyte (Baltimore, MD)Cotopaxi (Salt Lake City, UT)ENGAGE Talent (Charleston, SC)Losant (Cincinnati, OH) SafeChain Inc. (Columbus, OH) SEEVA (Seattle, WA)ZenBusiness (Austin, TX)Zylo (Indianapolis, IN)The venture capital firm said that it has closed its biggest-ever fund, bringing its total capital commitments to over $7.5 billion. The firm also announced that it had opened an office in San Franciscos trendy South Park neighborhood, joining a slew of its V.C. competitors.Among Norwests notable investments:• Jet.com, which was sold to Walmart• Casper, the mattress and sleep products company• UberNorwest also promoted Jon Kossow, a nine-year veteran of the firm who built out its growth equity team, to managing partner and Lisa Wu, a six-year veteran who sourced the firms Jet.com investment, to partner.— Michael de la MercedIn naming Jon Gray as its president and C.O.O., the giant investment firm joined a trend toward public succession planning in private equity. K.K.R., Apollo Global Management and the Carlyle Group all recently promoted their next generation of leadership to more visible roles.Mr. Gray, who has long headed Blackstones real estate arm, has long been seen as Steve Schwarzmans likeliest eventual replacement.Mr. Gray is 48. Mr. Schwarzman is 71, while Blackstones longtime president, Tony James, is 67. (He will become executive vice president.) For now, Mr. Schwarzman will still take the biggest decisions, while Mr. Gray will run day-to-day operations.AdvertisementThe critical take: Blackstone isnt run for outsiders benefit, and the gradual approach to change shows it, Tom Buerkle of Breakingviews writes.The alternative assets flyaround• Hillhouse Capital Management of China is raising a $6 billion fund, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• Meet Scott Ferguson, Keith Meister, Alex Denner, Quentin Koffey and other members of the next generation of activist hedge fund managers. (FT)• The White House shifted its story about Rob Porters background check after public testimony from the F.B.I. director, Christopher Wray. (NYT)• Top American intelligence officials warned that Russia is already meddling in this years midterm elections, spreading disinformation through social media. But the Upshot says that the impact of fake news and bots is overblown.• Lawmakers have until March 5 to replace DACA. So far, theres no progress. And the president is now threatening to veto any bill that omits his proposals.• The White House is considering Loretta Meester, the president of the Cleveland Fed, for the Federal Reserves No. 2 position. (WSJ)• Michael Cohen, President Trumps longtime personal lawyer, said he had paid $130,000 out of his own pocket to the pornographic-film actress Stormy Daniels. (NYT)Advertisement• BuzzFeed has sued the Democratic National Committee, seeking any information that would help its defense against a libel lawsuit by a Russian business magnate tied to its publication of the Russia dossier. (Vanity Fair)• Mr. Trump suggested that the U.S. might restrict metal imports. (NYT)• A much-criticized plan to replace the SNAP food stamp program with meal kits was meant more as a signal of the administrations intent than as a proposal for implementation. (NYT)The ride-hailing giant is still losing money — $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter, Dara Khosrowshahis first as C.E.O. But thats down 25 percent from a year ago.One reason is that Mr. Khosrowshahi is clamping down on costs as the company heads toward an I.P.O. as soon as next year. More from Amir Efrati of The Information:Uber spent 7.5 percent less on sales and marketing between the third and fourth quarters of last year. The cost of its operations and customer support fell by 1 percent during that time as the company was able to handle more customer issues without needing more support staff.The tech flyaround• Netflix poached Ryan Murphy, the producer behind Glee, from 21st Century Fox in a five-year deal worth as much as $300 million. (NYT)• Autonomous selfie drones are here. Farhad Manjoo has an escape plan. (NYT)• Amazon has invited hospital executives to Seattle to discuss expanding its business-to-business marketplace. (WSJ)• Tim Cook talked up Apples health care ambitions, hinting at a move beyond wellness apps and devices. (CNBC)• Fitbit is buying Twine Health, a start-up that helps people manage chronic diseases like diabetes and hypertension. (Axios)• Baidu confirmed that it plans to list its video streaming unit in the U.S. (FT)The government will focus on transparency instead — a relief for one of the worlds biggest virtual currency markets. A petition against a ban was backed by more than 200,000 Koreans.AdvertisementWhere Bitcoin is today: Around $8,854, says CoinMarketCap.Elsewhere in virtual currencies: Western Union is joining MoneyGram in testing Ripple. Just a fraction of Americans have reported virtual currency transactions to the I.R.S. Six investors have sued BitConnect, alleging fraud. Theyre also offering a bounty, in JusticeCoins.Blue Apron gained notoriety when its stock sank after its I.P.O. last year, spurring talk that the meal kit industry was a flash in the pan. But its latest results showed signs of life — and those of its biggest rival, HelloFresh of Germany, suggest its unwise to write the sector off right now.What happened at Blue Apron: The companys $39 million quarterly loss was less than expected, and its marketing expenses dropped (in part because management was more focused on operational improvements in its distribution center). But subscriber rolls dropped 15 percent from a year ago, to 746,000.And at HelloFresh: The companys preliminary sales numbers, released last month, beat analyst expectations. Its stock has risen 24 percent since its I.P.O. And its C.E.O., Dominik Richter, told Michael that the industry shouldnt fear competition from Amazon or other supermarket owners. We have more in common with Chipotle or a fast-casual chain, he said.• Nelson Peltz is stepping down from Mondelez Internationals board, to be replaced by Peter May, the president of his investment firm, Trian. (Mondelez)• Chipotle has hired Brian Niccol, the chief executive of Taco Bell, as its C.E.O., replacing its founder, Steve Ells. (NYT)• Sams Club is shifting toward e-commerce and imitating Amazon Prime. (NYT)• Police in Johannesburg raided the home of the Guptas, a powerful business family with close ties to President Jacob Zuma. (FT)• Shell and Eni paid $1.3 billion for oil rights in Nigeria — but was that a bribe? (WSJ)• The Israeli police recommended on Tuesday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust. They said one of his patrons was James Packer, an Australian billionaire. (NYT)Advertisement• A former employee sued Vice Media, saying it systematically paid women less than men for similar work. (NYT)• The U.S. is on track for huge economic expansion, but in California — which accounts for a fifth of the countrys growth — the governor is preparing for doom. (NYT)• Inflated stock prices could discourage capital investments and promote inequality. (NYT)Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byNRATV, the organizations online video channel, has become a little-noticed but vital forum for the dissemination of some of the most strident pro-gun messaging in politics.By Jeremy W. Peters and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — Whenever there is a mass shooting, the National Rifle Association has a well-rehearsed response: Say very little until the inevitable discussion about gun control cools down. But as the leaders of the countrys most influential gun advocacy group kept quiet after the school shooting last week in Parkland, Fla., that claimed 17 lives, a furious debate played out on NRATV, the organizations online video channel. Its hosts spoke chillingly of leftist plots to confiscate weapons, media conspiracies to brainwash Americans into supporting gun control and a deep state campaign to undermine President Trump.Coastal, socialist media elites hate guns so much, said one of the hosts, Grant Stinchfield, a Second Amendment activist based in Dallas and a radio commentator, that they would take everyones away, leaving only criminals, of course, with the firepower — and all of us at the mercy of evil.Critics of the N.R.A. say that they have observed a shift in the organizations tone since Mr. Trump was elected that is much more pugilistic, and that NRATV is where the most outrageous commentary occurs. This change, they say, seems to reflect the fact that like many organizations on the right, the N.R.A. believes it has to guard against complacency among its members with a friendly president in the White House.Theres no boogeyman in the White House now to make people afraid of, said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action, a gun control advocacy group. So they have to make us afraid of one another, and that is how they will market guns in an age when they have a president beholden to them. The channel has become a little-noticed but vital forum for the dissemination of some of the most strident pro-gun messaging in politics today, with hosts and guests who are closely allied with Mr. Trump. Few news media operations seem as in sync with the political sensibilities of the Trump era. They attack the enemies he attacks, condemning the news media as dishonest and failing. They have questioned the credibility of the F.BI., whose failure to act on tips about the suspect in the Florida shooting has intensified criticism from conservatives seeking to discredit the bureau — this week, Dana Loesch, an N.R.A. spokeswoman, encouraged mass demonstrations outside F.B.I. offices.And they often side with Mr. Trump in divisive cultural disputes — some of which have potent racial undercurrents — like his feuding with Black Lives Matter activists and the professional football players who knelt during the national anthem.With broadcast television-quality production and three dozen original series, NRATV has the ability to reach millions of people through the channels that distribute it like Apple TV, Roku and Amazon Fire TV. And it has significant resources at its disposal as part of the N.R.A.s far-reaching membership support program. In recent years, that operation alone spent $35.5 million, according to its most recent publicly available tax filing.But it is just the newest piece of a larger news media operation inside the N.R.A. that receives little attention compared with the groups political and lobbying activity. The organization produces at least seven print and online magazines that have a combined circulation of more than 11 million, according to the N.R.A. Its biggest social media channels on Facebook and Twitter count about 8.7 million followers. On YouTube, five N.R.A.-controlled channels have shared videos that have received nearly 102 million views. Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the N.R.A., declined to discuss the media effort, the size of its online audience or its programming in the wake of the Parkland shooting. As a matter of policy, he said, the N.R.A. does not discuss proprietary matters. NRATV is a budding business for the organization, which has brokered sponsorship arrangements with gun makers like Kimber, Mossberg and Ruger to feature their firearms on its programs. Its series cover a range of topics and interests intended to appeal to gun owners of all kinds, like Armed and Fabulous, which profiles rifle-slinging women; Frontlines, a newsmagazine hosted by Oliver North; and Under Wild Skies, which follows hunters in pursuit of big-game trophies. But politics and provocation are NRATVs specialty. It has singled out news outlets and attacked individual journalists like Don Lemon of CNN, who was targeted in an ad that accused the anchor and his network of smearing Mr. Trump and colluding with Hillary Clintons presidential campaign. In one video released this month, Ms. Loesch, a former Tea Party activist and Breitbart editor, pretended she was about to burn a copy of The New York Times.Stories that circulate throughout right-wing news media often find their way to NRATV, which has devoted numerous segments to portraying anti-Trump demonstrators as paid shills, violent extremists and evangelists for Shariah law in the United States.Its guests and hosts are not shy of trading in racially charged language and imagery. A promo for a program called Noir featuring a Navy SEAL member named Dom Raso opens with a dramatization of a foiled robbery. A black man wielding a knife grabs and forces a white woman to the ground as an armed bystander reaches for his handgun and rushes to her defense. After Mr. Trumps inauguration last year, an NRATV correspondent, Chuck Holton, tweeted that it was time to get busy scrubbing Obamas mocacchino stain off of America! — an apparent reference to the color of President Barack Obamas skin.The N.R.A.s practice is to keep a low profile after mass shootings, as it did after the massacres in Newtown, Conn., and at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Fla. But it was always quietly talking to its members, first by email and later on NRATV, said Danny Barefoot, a partner at Anvil Strategies, an ad agency and communications company that has worked with gun control groups. In those moments, the goal isnt to disseminate mass information and persuade a lot of people,  Mr. Barefoot said. The strategy is to be a messenger to the N.R.A.s own people. Eli Pariser, the co-founder of Upworthy, a site that delivered progressive political videos to targeted audiences on Facebook, said that while videos produced by NRATV after a shooting might not go viral, they helped viewers feel theyre part of a community, led by a news source that speaks to them.NRATV can galvanize members in the wake of a shooting in part because the N.R.A. has coached its followers to believe that the organization is the only credible source for news and information on any gun issue or controversy. NRATVs slogan — Americas Most Patriotic Team on a Mission to Take Back The Truth — reinforces a sense of mistrust in traditional news media, as do its hosts. In the days after the Parkland shooting, Mr. Stinchfield and Ms. Loesch, two of the channels most prominent faces, were relentless in their attacks on the news media.If it can topple us, it gets a direct path to the Second Amendment, Mr. Stinchfield told viewers this week from the organizations studio in Dallas. They will stop at nothing to put us out of business.Some of his more recent antics have included taking a sledgehammer to a television set as clips from MSNBC, CNN and ABC play onscreen, and inviting North Korea to launch a nuclear weapon on Sacramento, where the California state legislature has approved numerous gun control measures opposed by the N.R.A.Mr. Stinchfield went on to question the competence and motivation of the F.B.I. It is time the F.B.I. got back to the business of keeping Americans safe, instead of being so focused on political vendettas, he said. He then turned the microphone over to Mr. Holton, who saw a slippery slope in new gun regulations and identified a new culprit in the proliferation of school shootings: the news media.People could just as easily call for restrictions on the first amendment, Mr. Holton said. They could say, Hey, lets make it illegal to report on those school shootings because we all know, I mean, theres no doubt that the media circus that takes place every time one of these things happens causes more school shootings. Jeremy W. Peters covers national politics in the Washington bureau. His other assignments in his decade at The Times have included covering the financial markets, the media, New York politics and two presidential campaigns.
   @jwpetersNYTFacebook   @jwpetersNYTFacebookKatie Benner covers the Justice Department. She previously wrote about the technology industry from San Francisco. Before coming to The Times, she was a tech columnist at Bloomberg and reported on financial markets for Fortune.  @ktbennerAdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 1, 2018
 Good Thursday morning. Heres what were watching:• A tale of three tech companies earnings.• CBS and Viacom are talking about getting back together.• A shake-up in Airbnbs C-suite• Why Europe matters for Facebook.• Regulators are worried that Bitcoins price is being manipulated.• Jeff Immelt has gone from C.E.O. to V.C.• And when will Congress raise the debt ceiling?Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.Apple reported record profit and sales, Amazon easily beat expectations, and Google-parent Alphabet posted a loss because of the new tax law.AdvertisementHeres a look at the numbers:Apple• $20.1 billion — Apples profit during the quarter, up 12 percent.• $88.3 billion — Apples revenue for the quarter.Advertisement• $61.6 billion — Revenue from iPhone sales, up 13 percent from a year earlier.• 77.3 million — The number of iPhones that Apple sold in the quarter, down 1 percent and below the 80.2 million analysts expected, according to Bloomberg.• $796 -- The average sale price of an iPhone, according to Bloomberg.• $60 billion to $62 billion — Apple's revenue guidance for the current quarter, well below analysts expectations of $65.9 billion.• $285 billion — Apples big cash pile.Critics CornerRobert Cryan of Breakingviews:Apple has long followed Mies van der Rohes design precept that less is more. Now its doing the same financially. The company sold fewer iPhones for more money in the last quarter, it reported on Thursday. That raises fears that the company is losing its innovation edge. But thats OK – persuading customers to pay more arguably requires as much genius as getting people to adopt the technology in the first place.Amazon• $1.9 billion —the e-commerce giants fourth-quarter profit, more than double its profit from a year ago and the first time Amazons earnings have surpassed $1 billion in a quarter.• $789 million —The boost to Amazons bottom line from a one-time tax benefit.• $60.5 billion — Amazons revenue in the quarter, up 38 percent and above analysts estimates of $59.8 billion.Critics cornerRobert Cryan of Breakingviews:Amazon.com is going gangbusters. But some of the nearly $700 billion internet retailers fastest-expanding – and most profitable – businesses could be ones that irritate users. Over time, that could sully the companys image.Alphabet• $3.02 billion — The loss Alphabet reported for the fourth quarter.• $9.9 billion — The hit Alphabet took to its earnings related to the new tax law.• $32.32 billion — The search giants revenue for the quarter, up 27 percent from same period a year ago.Critics cornerJennifer Saba of Breakingviews:Alphabet is stuck at the letter G. The holding company of Google was created to safeguard against conventionality and let moonshot ideas, like self-driving cars, flourish. Almost three years in, its basically still just Google. Which means, in turn, that the A in Alphabet stands mainly for advertising.It wouldnt hurt Alphabet to put more energy into revenue sources that dont start with a G.More than a decade after Viacom and CBS split, the boards of the two companies have formed a special committee to evaluate a possible merger.AdvertisementWhy now• Shari Redstone, who along with her father, Sumner Redstone, controls the two companies, is pushing for a deal.Her previous effort to combine the two companies in 2016 faltered over the concerns of CBS directors and CBSs chief executive, Les Moonves. According to media reports, Mr. Moonves may be more open to a deal, though the WSJ reports that he remains wary.• Walt Disneys deal for much of 21st Century Fox late last year has sparked much strategic rethinking across the industry. Ms. Redstone believes that CBS and Viacom need greater scale to better compete with Disney, Netflix and Amazon.Critics cornerTara Lachapelle of Bloomberg Gadfly:CBS isnt safe from the industrys broad ratings pressure and subscriber declines, which is why scale is important. Viacom wont provide enough of it, but it will offer substantial cost-saving opportunities. Those synergies may amount to some $500 million based on what past deals have yielded, according to Geetha Ranganathan, an analyst for Bloomberg Intelligence. That could create quite a lift for CBSs earnings.Belinda Johnson is moving up. Laurence Tosi is moving out. And dont expect the company to go public this year.Whats happening: Ms. Johnson, whos currently the home-rental companys chief business affairs and legal officer, will become its chief operating officer. Meanwhile, Mr. Tosi, who had been Airbnbs chief financial officer since coming over from Blackstone, will leave the company to focus on his investment fund.Airbnb has hired a search firm to find a new C.F.O. Ellie Mertz, the companys head of global financial planning, will fill in that role on an interim basis.Between the lines• Ms. Johnson had been a rising star at Airbnb, often compared to Facebooks Sheryl Sandberg as the companys business-minded grown-up in the room.• Mr. Tosi had been increasingly at odds with Airbnbs C.E.O., Brian Chesky, over strategy. (The Information covered their disputes — which were over both strategy and tactics — in great detail.)The context Airbnb is heading ever so slowly toward an initial public offering. It hired Ken Chenault as its first outside director, for example, and promoting its most successful business mind to C.O.O. is another step in that direction. Still losing its C.F.O. — particularly one well versed in Wall Street — could set those plans back a bit.AdvertisementThe company lineHeres Mr. Chesky on Ms. Johnson:She takes critical functions that might be seen as constraints in other companies, and clears a path so they can become competitive advantages and facilitate the growth of the business.And heres a statement from Eric Holder, the former U.S. Attorney General who has been advising the company on anti-discrimination policies:Having worked with Belinda over the years and at Airbnb, I have been consistently impressed by her ability to anticipate issues and leverage strategic opportunities. She combines technical expertise with great care for her colleagues.And heres Mr. Chesky on Mr. Tosi:He helped Airbnb establish a rigorous financial discipline, aided our expansion into new businesses including into luxury rentals, which is now one of our core businesses, and helped us develop new and innovative ways to grow Airbnb and our businesses.— Michael J. de la MercedSome of the most consequential battles in the world of technology are playing out in Europe, where governments are cracking down on tech giants like Google and Facebook.Facebooks quarterly results, released Wednesday, provide crucial information for better understanding the balance of power between Silicon Valley titans and the democracies of Europe.The results clearly showed the importance of the European market to Facebooks future growth. The companys average revenue per European user in the fourth quarter of 2017 was $8.86, well below the $26.76 that Facebook rakes in per user in the United States and Canada.Facebook should be able to move that European number a lot higher in the coming years. Europes economy is only a bit smaller than the United States, and the Continent contains prosperous nations whose citizens are just as addicted to social media as Americans. Indeed, Facebook has more daily active users in Europe than in the United States and Canada (277 million versus 184 million.) What is more, total European daily active users grew in the fourth quarter, while the United States and Canada number edged lower.All this helps explain why the growth in European revenue per user, at nearly 50 percent in the fourth quarter versus the year-earlier period, is significantly higher than the 35 percent rate for the United States and Canada.What does this mean for Facebook as European countries introduce measures aimed at protecting their citizens that may go beyond what the company is used to in the United States?Given how lucrative Europe is and will be to Facebook, it may be willing to spend what it takes to comply with new regulations, and even tolerate any inefficiencies the rules impose on its advertising business. Indeed, Facebook itself says it wants to make its network safer for users and democracies. But if there is any slip in that stance, Europes leaders, seeing how important their countries are to Facebooks bottom line, arguably have considerable leverage to respond.— Peter EavisIts price on Thursday: $8,915Its all-time high hit on Dec. 18: $19,511.Thats more than a 50 percent slide, and it marks it lowest price since November. To put the Bitcoins recent slide in perspective, the cryptocurrency has lost $44 billion in market value last month, according to Bloomberg.AdvertisementThe tumble has continued so far in February. Bitcoin is down 11 percent Thursday.Regulators are increasingly worried that Bitfinex, a widely used (and famously opaque) exchange, has been propping it up. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has subpoenaed the company, whose Tether digital token is often used to buy other virtual currencies.More from Nathaniel Popper of the NYT:Hundreds of millions of dollars worth of new Tether were created; almost always when the prices of other virtual currencies were heading down. The Tether were used on the Bitfinex exchange to make big purchases of Bitcoin and other tokens, helping push their prices back up, according to multiple analyses of data from Bitfinex.This became more and more concerning, because every time the markets went down, you have seen the same thing happen, said Joey Krug, the co-chief investment officer at Pantera Capital, which runs several virtual currency hedge funds. It could mean that a lot of the rally over December and January might not have been real.Where we stand: According to CoinMarketCap, Bitcoin is trading at $9,545, down almost 7 percent over the last 24 hours, Ethereums Ether at $1,099, and Ripples XRP at $1.05, down 7 percent.The digital money flyaround• How Goldman Sachs was rushed into supporting Bitcoin. (Bloomberg)• Meet Bibor, a proposed interest rate for lending Bitcoin. (Bloomberg)• Samsung is making specialist chips for mining virtual currency. (CNBC)The Wall Street Journal, citing anonymous sources, is reporting that Saudi Arabias Aramco and Googles parent, Alphabet, are in talks to build a tech hub within the kingdom.Details, including when and if a deal will come to fruition, remain scant at this point.The contextSaudi Arabia is seeking to diversify its economy away from oil, and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has made developing Saudi Arabias tech sector a key part of his Vision 2030 plan. In late 2016, he traveled to Silicon Valley to promote those reforms, and the kingdom has taken bigger steps in recent years into the tech investing world.That year Saudi Arabia poured $3.5 billion into Uber, and its Public Investment Fund put $45 billion into SoftBanks $100 billion Vision Fund, which is making eye-popping investments in tech companies.An interesting point, from the WSJ article:While a potential joint venture between Alphabet and Aramco isnt necessarily connected to the latter companys IPO, if a deal is struck before the offering, advisers to the company could pitch the pact as a way for investors to bake in technology valuations.It isnt clear how setting up tech hubs could fundamentally transform an oil company into a tech company — and therefore command a higher multiple — but itd be interesting to see bankers make that argument.— Stephen GrocerThe former G.E. chairman and C.E.O. will focus on tech and health care companies in his new role as a partner at N.E.A., one of the biggest V.C. firms in the world (that isnt named SoftBank).AdvertisementFrom the release:I am excited to join NEA because they understand how to work with visionary entrepreneurs to build successful technology and health care enterprises, Immelt said. I have a passion for these sectors and I am eager to work with NEA and its partners to develop great businesses, nurture talented leaders and grow diverse teams.and:Jeff is deeply knowledgeable about the complex global innovation landscape were operating in today and he understands how businesses must evolve to compete and win in that environment, particularly across industrial and medical technologies, said Scott Sandell, Managing General Partner, NEA.(Worth noting: Mr. Immelts successor at G.E. is struggling to turn that company around. See below.)Mr. Immelt is only the latest corporate chieftain to find his next act in venture capital. Earlier this week, Ken Chenault announced that he would become chairman of General Catalyst Partners.Mr. Immelt himself famously dallied with Silicon Valley last year, when he was in the running to become Ubers next C.E.O.— Michael J. de la MercedThe good news: Its fourth-quarter earnings handily beat expectations. The average price per ad went up 43 percent.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The possibly bad news: Mark Zuckerberg said changes to the News Feed had cut 50 million hours a day from the time users spent on it (as Shira Ovide of Gadfly points out, thats about 2 minutes less each).Heres where our colleague Peter Eavis says investors should focus:Daily active users in the United States and Canada actually fell to 184 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 from 185 million in the third quarter of last year. But Facebook still managed to generate a huge amount of revenue from the United States and Canada. The region accounted for $6.4 billion of revenue in the fourth quarter of last year, a 40 percent jump from the same period in 2016.Another figure that might cause concern is the growth in capital expenditures, the money a company spends as it invests in new initiatives. Capex hit $2.26 billion in the fourth quarter of last year, a staggering 78 percent jump from the same period in 2016.Todays a big day for tech earnings• Apple: Everyone wants to know how well the iPhone X has sold — well enough to start a new supercycle?• Alphabet: Will Googles hardware sales make its nonadvertising business more than a tiny blip in earnings?• Amazon: Will Wall Street have finally got the fourth-quarter results right? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯• Is digital advertising whats wrong with the internet? (NYT)Advertisement• More than a million followers have disappeared from the accounts of dozens of prominent Twitter users in recent days. Funny, that. (NYT)• Microsofts cloud computing push continues to pay off. (NYT)• Uber is offering bicycle sharing in San Francisco. (NYT)• EBay will shift its payments business from PayPal. That pummeled PayPals share price in after-hours trading. (Bloomberg)• The Twitter co-founder Biz Stone and the Craigslist co-founder Craig Newmark are investing in a fact-checking start-up. (Bloomberg)Steven Mnuchin urged lawmakers to do it quickly, amid worries that the government could run out of borrowing capacity late this month. (The Congressional Budget Office has changed its estimate because of the tax cuts.)The Treasury secretary argued that the cuts would eventually pay for themselves, but conceded that it wouldnt happen this year.In the meantime, the Treasury Department said that the size of Treasury auctions will increase. And Republicans are increasingly split over whether to keep supporting short-term bills to keep the government operating.The policy flyaround• Robert Mueller appears to be focusing on the White Houses initial statement about a June 2016 meeting between Trump campaign officials and Russian individuals over potential dirt on Hillary Clinton. (NYT)Advertisement• The F.B.I. made an unusual public statement opposing the release of a secret House Intelligence Committee memo about surveillance of a Trump campaign aide. (NYT)• A federal appeals court ruled that the president could fire the Consumer Financial Protection Bureaus director only for cause. (NYT)• The E.U. is preparing measures to stop Britain undercutting it on tax or regulation after Brexit. (FT)• The Treasury Department insisted that new sanctions are coming against Russian individuals close to Vladimir Putin. (Bloomberg)• Prosecutors have dropped corruption charges against Senator Bob Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey. (NYT)• The director of the C.D.C., Brenda Fitzgerald, resigned after she was reported to have bought stock in a tobacco company. (Politico)Yesterdays meeting, Janet Yellens last as Fed chairwoman, left rates unchanged. But the accompanying statement hinted that higher inflation — and rate hikes — might be around the corner.Analysts takes:• Economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch write, This shows that the Fed is taking notice of the recent shift in market perception about inflation.Advertisement• Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomics writes, In short, the statement sets up the March hike, which will be followed by Jay Powells first press conference.• Diane Swonk of Grant Thornton said, Everything from stronger growth at home and abroad to debt-financed tax cuts have raised expectations for inflation.The scene at the Fed yesterday, from Binyamin Appelbaum of the NYT:On Wednesday, some Fed employees wore shirts or jackets with the collars turned up, or popped, in a tribute to Ms. Yellen, who favored that look in public appearances.Analysts over at Deutsche Bank think so. They wrote in a research note yesterday:As the companys absolute share price has continued to drop (and as the share prices of the other companies have been increasing), G.E. increasingly falls into the category of outlier and consequently a likely candidate for removal, in our opinion.G.E. is the last survivor of the indexs 12 original components from when it started in 1896, and has been in it continuously for more than 110 years.More on G.E.s troubles in Bloomberg Businessweeks cover story.• SoftBank agreed to buy a majority stake in the cellphone service unit of Line, a Japanese messaging company. (CNBC)• Brookfield Asset Management is in talks to buy Forest City Realty Trust, a fellow real estate owner with a market value of about $6.2 billion, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg)• CVC Capital Partners has hired Morgan Stanley and UBS to lead an initial public offering of the antivirus company Avast Software, which could be the biggest ever in British tech, according to unnamed sources. (Reuters)• Meet the three-month old boutique investment bank that helped put together the Blackstone Groups $20 billion deal for Thomson Reuters financial information unit. (Bloomberg)• General Assembly, the coding boot camp, may sell itself. (Reuters)• Tell us your memories of Xerox as the onetime corporate icon strikes a deal with Fujifilm of Japan. (NYT)The states gaming commission is looking into the numerous, decade-spanning sexual assault and misconduct allegations against Steve Wynn. It has the power to revoke the operating license for Wynn Boston Harbor, the biggest single-phase development in Massachusetts history, which is expected to create thousands of jobs.AdvertisementMore from Susan Pulliam, Jon Kamp, Chris Kirkham and Kate OKeeffe of the WSJ:We will be looking at how the company, from the board on down, handles the allegations, said Karen Wells, who directs the investigations and enforcement bureau at the state gambling commission.She said allegations in the settlement agreement werent disclosed before the commission granted Wynn a license in September 2014, or at any point before The Wall Street Journal report.Shares in Wynn Resorts fell more than 3 percent yesterday.• Stephen Cutler, who spent 11 years at JPMorgan, mostly as its general counsel, has joined Simpson Thacher & Bartlett as a litigation partner. (Simpson Thacher)• The public relations firm Brunswick Group has hired Bob Zoellick, the former president of the World Bank, and Pascal Lamy, the former director general of the World Trade Organization, as part of a new consultancy focused on geopolitical advice. (Brunswick)Our colleagues want to know how youre thinking about retirement. Theyll use the best responses in a forthcoming special section.• U.S. prosecutors have issued grand jury subpoenas in an investigation into potential corruption at international sports bodies, and exploring bringing charges of racketeering, money laundering and fraud. (NYT)• BMW and Daimler said they had taken action against executives involved in an organization that sponsored emissions experiments on monkeys. (NYT)• Equifax began offering a free service on Wednesday that promised to let consumers lock their credit files using their cellphones. It didnt work. (NYT)• Some of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkes rapid moves on environmental regulation look vulnerable to legal challenge, experts say. (NYT)Advertisement• SoFi is laying off dozens of employees in its mortgage division, according to people familiar with the matter. It used to highlight the area as a growth prospect. (WSJ)• Hong Kong developers and distressed debt and private credit funds are lining up to offer financing to HNA, bankers and property investors say. (FT)• David Einhorns Greenlight Capital lost roughly 6 percent in January, extending a multiyear period of weakness. (WSJ)• Private equity heavyweights like K.K.R., Carlyle and Apollo have started issuing U.S. preferred shares, which pay higher interest than traditional bonds and can be a highly efficient way to raise capital. (FT)• Hedge funds have earned spectacular payoffs from bearish bets against companies like Steinhoff International and Carillion, but can accounting sleuths expect more wins on that scale? (FT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NICHOLAS CONFESSOREJAN. 27, 2018
The New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, on Saturday opened an investigation into a company that sold millions of fake followers on social media platforms, some of them copying real users personal information.The company, Devumi, and its sale of automated followers to a swath of celebrities, sports stars, journalists and politicians, was detailed in a New York Times  article published earlier on Saturday. While based in Florida, Devumi claims on its website to be based in New York City.At least 55,000 of its bot accounts used names, pictures, hometowns and other details taken from people on Twitter. The real users hailed from every U.S. state, including New York, and dozens of countries, a Times analysis found.Impersonation and deception are illegal under New York law, Mr. Schneiderman wrote on Twitter. Were opening an investigation into Devumi and its apparent sale of bots using stolen identities.The investigation is the latest in a series of federal and state inquiries into the commercial and political abuse of fake accounts on social media. Tens of millions of fake accounts have been deployed to defraud businesses, influence political debates online and attract customers.AdvertisementSocial media companies, including Twitter and Facebook, have drawn intense scrutiny for not taking greater steps to weed them out. Many of the accounts identified by The Times appear to violate Twitters own policies, but remained active on the social media platform for years, each retweeting and promoting Devumi customers.AdvertisementThe tactics used by Devumi on our platform and others as described by todays NYT article violate our policies and are unacceptable to us, Twitter said in a message posted on its media relations account on Saturday.Mr. Schneiderman, who was first elected in 2010, has brought a series of cases focused on the emerging world of online fraud, impersonation and abuse. In December, he began an investigation into how the Federal Communications Commission was flooded with millions of fake comments on a proposal to scrap so-called net neutrality rules. Many of the comments used names and addresses borrowed from real people, almost always without their knowledge.The internet should be one of the greatest tools for democracy — but its increasingly being turned into an opaque, pay-to-play playground, Mr. Schneiderman said.A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: New York Opens Inquiry on Firm That Sells Fake Followers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Wordplay By                     
 DEB AMLEN
 
FEB. 21, 2018
THURSDAY PUZZLE — Brains are funny. You can sit me down in front of a rebus puzzle like Wednesdays by Ori Brian and Zach Spitz and I wont make much headway for a long time. But you want me to write the answers into the grid backward? I got you. Im there. I see what youre doing.Your mileage, as always, may vary. I admire people who can spot a rebus a mile away. But today was my day. Today I raced through a Thursday puzzle as if it were written for me, and maybe you did, too. My point is this: We all have days when we own the puzzle, and we all have days when the puzzle owns us. Dont give up.That doesnt mean it was easy. It took some doing to get where Zhouqin Burnikel was going with this theme, but once I got it, a whoop escaped my mouth and I was off. This was a very clever theme with a terrific Aha! moment. And I didnt need to backtrack at all.The revealer in Ms. Burnikels puzzle is at 60A, a great place for the punch line of a puzzle where the grid has some weird stuff going on above it. The clue is Backtracking … or what 17-, 27- and 46-Across are doing? and the answer is REVERSING COURSE.AdvertisementThats a nice, in-the-language phrase, but how does it apply to the seemingly nonsensical theme entries? For one thing, all three theme entries are types of COURSEs: One is a golf course, one is a school math course and one is the course of a meal.AdvertisementThat in itself is a nice find, but this is Thursday and we have more business to finish. Since we are REVERSING COURSE, we need to write the theme entries into the grid backward, yes? So, Augusta National golf course becomes LANOITAN ATSUGUA. Did you get the other two?1A: I wanted this to be FRIEND instead of ADD ME, since FRIEND has become a verb in the world of social media (as in Why dont you friend me?), but we didnt have enough squares.33A: I did not know Minnesota Senator AMY Klobuchar, but this may be the first time shes been a clue in the puzzle. She is also the first woman elected to represent the State of Minnesota in the United States Senate.36A: My brain shuts down automatically with clues like this, but Ive found that the answer to flashbacks to high school math terror is to take a deep breath and go slowly. If you have a pie and you plan to Divide into 120° sections, say, you will be cutting it into thirds (360° divided by 3 is 120°), so the answer is TRISECT.43A: I had REF until the crossings told me the answer to One who might be second-guessed by instant replays was UMP.68A: The answer to What bagpipes are often played in is not Scotland, at least not today. Today, the answer is KILTS.1D: I should know this. Alfred ADLER has appeared in the crossword many times.3D: DONT PANIC is a phrase from my favorite book, The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, and a Coldplay song as well:6D: Having hands, in a way is a sneaky way to clue ANALOG. This clue is talking about the hands on an ANALOG clock.Advertisement11D: ORGAN donation is a wonderful Non-monetary donation. There is a scene from Monty Pythons The Meaning of Life that involves liver donations, but its fairly grisly, so Im not linking to it here. You can see it on YouTube if you so desire.24D: EROS was the Greek god of love, and therefore a Match maker?31D: Seeing the N.R.A. in the puzzle can be jolting (for me, your mileage etc., etc.). For those who wonder why its there, it is the philosophy of the puzzle editors that the puzzle should reflect real life, and that entries like N.R.A. are part of that.Will and the team helped me with the current theme set. I originally had SOUP OR SALAD (later on CAESAR SALAD/CHICKEN SOUP). They gently let me know that those were dishes rather than courses.One of the things I hope solvers take away from our solving guide is that mental flexibility is one of the important keys to becoming a good puzzle solver, and that its possible to improve that flexibility at any time of life. In a recent interview with U.S.A. Table Tennis, crossword editor Will Shortz revealed that being willing to make a major change in the way he plays table tennis — his other passion besides puzzles — may pay off in the long run.When Mr. Shortz found himself at a plateau in his table tennis game a couple of years ago, he tried something new: He gave up his lifelong Seemiller paddle grip and began using the more conventional shakehands grip. The change came with a sacrifice.It was a radical change, almost like starting over, Mr. Shortz said in the interview. My skill dropped to about a 1000 level. And getting comfortable with the new grip wasnt the biggest issue. I also had to change my mind-set and style of play. But 18 months later, Im fighting my way back. With my old grip, my USATT rating had peaked at 1943. Im hoping eventually to get back to that level and then beyond.When you get frustrated while solving, stop and think about what you can change about your mind-set and way of looking at the clues. Its good for your streak, and its good for you. I think that periodically rewiring the brain is a good thing, he says.And remember that youre not alone. While youre improving your flexibility, Will Shortz is, too.Looking for an excuse to solve during your lunch break? Assistant puzzles editor Sam Ezersky and I solve the Thursday crossword live on Facebook with a few of our friends.Solving together is better, so join us at 1 p.m. every week and help us crush these puzzles.Almost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you.AdvertisementWarning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key.Your thoughts?Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Advertising By                     
 JOHN HERRMAN
 
FEB. 18, 2018
As advertising has become more intrusive in recent years, hundreds of millions of web users have installed ad-blocking software to ward off full-page pop-ups, blaring video pitches that start automatically and large ads with unstoppable countdown clocks that obscure the content you actually want to see.On Thursday, Google did something about the problem: The company updated its browser, Google Chrome, so that it bans such ads by default on mobile devices and desktop computers.The change will probably improve the average persons internet day — and give the tech giant an even greater role in shaping the web.The update to Chrome, first announced last year, is not a universal ad-blocker, the company insisted, but a filter. It will affect only those websites that allow four types of desktop ads and eight types of mobile ads that violate the standards established by a group called the Coalition for Better Ads, of which Google is a member (as is Facebook).AdvertisementBy focusing on filtering out disruptive ad experiences, we can help keep the entire ecosystem of the web healthy, and give people a significantly better user experience than they have today, Rahul Roy-Chowdhury, a Google vice president, wrote in a blog post on Feb. 13. We believe these changes will not only make Chrome better for you, but also improve the web for everyone.AdvertisementFor the most part, the update has been embraced by the industry. After all, it seems like a win for publishers, quality advertisers and users alike.But Google did not become the creator of the worlds most popular browser and a dominant advertising force by running its business in a manner that did not serve its own interests.With the Chrome update, the company hopes to come out ahead by lessening the temptation of web users to install more comprehensive ad-blocking software. In other words, Google is betting that ridding the web of especially intrusive ads will render it more hospitable to advertising in general — and more profitable for advertisers and Google itself.The new filter will be rolled out gradually to the browsers hundreds of millions of users. Website operators had a few months before the launch to become compliant; going forward, those who violate the standards will be given 30 days to get in line. If they dont, Google will demonstrate its leverage not by simply removing offending ads from a noncompliant site, but by disabling all of its ads. Revenue to the offending websites would presumably plummet as a result.Utilizing Chromes popularity in this way is yet another example of Googles singular position in the modern web.Chrome literally exists to protect Googles advertising business, said Mark Mayo, a vice president at Mozilla, the company behind the web browser Firefox, a competitor to Chrome. Google has done a tremendous amount of stuff — their products are web-based — and probably most of it positive, but what weve also seen, obviously, is a tremendous centralization.The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit digital rights organization, issued a statement on Friday that said the Google Chrome update fails to address the larger problem of tracking and privacy violations on the web. It also criticized Google and the Coalition for Better Ads, calling it a trade group that lacks a consumer voice.AdvertisementGoogle exploiting its browser dominance to shape the conditions of the advertising market raises some concerns, the foundation said.It took some time for Adblock Plus, which makes popular ad-blocking software that can be installed on Google Chrome, to figure out which types of ads, exactly, Google would be filtering, according to a company spokesman, Ben Williams. Once Adblock Plus had a firm idea, it determined that the update will not risk losing the interest of the tens of millions people who use its ad-blocking software.Chrome will not block ads that run before videos on sites like the Google-owned YouTube, for example. Such ads, which can be blocked by Adblock Plus, lay outside  the scope of the recommendations made by the Coalition for Better Ads.Its laudable, what theyre doing, getting rid of the worst of the worst formats, Mr. Williams said, but I dont think it will cause people not to download ad blockers or to uninstall them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Adblock Plus makes money, however, by accepting payments from major companies to white-list them — those who pay, that is, do not get blocked. Among those paying for the kind treatment: Google.Likewise, Mozilla, which is paid by Google for traffic sent to its search engine through Firefox, depends on the company for much of its revenue.As of Friday, Google said that 65 percent of the sites with ads that were out of compliance with the new rules had already made changes to go along with them. Forbes, which has long greeted visitors with an inspirational quote built into an ad equipped with a countdown clock, was among them.A few months ago, we had one minor infraction, which we immediately fixed, and we are now compliant, said Laura Daunis Brusca, a Forbes spokeswoman.In addition to introducing the update to its browser, Google announced last week that it was further expanding its Accelerated Mobile Pages program — which it developed in cooperation with a coalition of partners in 2015 to allow the faster loading of mobile web pages — to Gmail.AdvertisementThe Accelerated Mobile Pages framework provides standard formats for websites — including one for mobile websites to display Google Stories, a Google initiative that is very much like Snapchat Stories — as well as guidelines and limits for displaying advertising. The newly announced AMP for email project will allow users to complete tasks — such as submitting an RSVP or filling out a questionnaire — within Gmail.Publishers and advertisers have responded warmly to the speedy load times made possible by the Accelerated Mobile Pages program, but its adoption has also been rewarded more directly. According to Chartbeat, Google Mobile Search traffic to publishers that do not use Accelerated Mobile Pages has been flat over the past year, while publishers that have adopted the technology saw a jump of 100 percent in their mobile referrals from Google.With each improvement — whether it is the zapping of irksome ads or the restructuring of how mobile sites work — Google is continuing to consolidate its power over the web, which has lost its centrality in the modern internet ecosystem to platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Snapchat.So far, what has been good for users has tended to be good for Google, and the other way around. But the collision of the old notion of the web as a free and open space and the reality of it as a digital territory increasingly colonized by commercial interests has provoked worry among some users.Scott Spencer, a director of product management at Google, said the company is sensitive to consumers growing awareness of its power. Google is not neutral when it comes to the open web, he said. Were a search company, we want to ensure that there is a healthy and sustainable web for people to be searching and getting information from. Were also obviously an ad-serving company.He framed Chromes ad filter as the latest in a series of the browsers positive innovations, spanning back to the pop-up ad blocker in its original incarnation a decade ago and including more recent security protections against scams and malware.Mr. Spencer compared the web to a series of roads crowded by people trying to get to work. At some point someone has the idea that we need to put in some traffic lights, he said. Nobody likes waiting for the light, but everyone appreciates not getting stuck in traffic.Google is in a position to install and operate the traffic lights — with outside input, of course. It also raises questions about what sort of actor Google is on the web. Is it a government? A budding monopoly? A reluctant leader? All three?We dont want to be doing this alone, Mr. Spencer said. We understand the concerns that exist, and we want to make sure that other voices have a channel and are being heard.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Google,  Tamer  Of Ads .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SAM SIFTONFEB. 16, 2018
Good morning. Im still messing around with this recipe for risotto with sausage and parsley (above). Julien Shapiro, who runs the butcher and charcuterie shop at 8 Hands Farm in Cutchogue, N.Y., got on me the other day about how I call for sautéing the onions before I toast the rice, and about how much stirring I do afterward, while adding the stock.Julien used to make risotto like that, he said, until the chef he was working for called him into the walk-in to tell him to stop. He paused then and looked at the ground and I realized he was telling me to stop, too. You dont want any moisture in the pot when you start, he said. Just toast the rice in the oil until it looks like mother-of-pearl, then hit it with the onions, wine and stock. Bare simmer, covered, 10 minutes. Julien makes the best sausages in Suffolk County, and he displays a quiet authority when he talks. I did what I was told.And, man, that is a good way to cook risotto. You may need a little bit more hot stock at the end of the process, before you add butter and cheese to finish the dish. (Maybe a few handfuls of baby greens as well.) But youll cut down on your time at the stove by a considerable amount, with no diminishing of flavor.So maybe cook risotto this weekend. Me, Id also like to take on this recipe for a venison and trotter pie, which Tejal Rao coaxed out of Angie Mar at the Beatrice Inn in New York. I think it would be pretty lip-smacky for a midwinter feast, super unctuous, really strong.AdvertisementThats for Sunday, though, I think: a formal meal to round out the week. Today is the Lunar New Year, and Id like to welcome it this evening with a steamed whole fish with ginger and sesame, maybe some pork and shrimp won tons and definitely noodles for miles.AdvertisementSaturday would be good to bake Dorie Greenspans recipe for lemon-spice visiting cake. But as delicious as it is, its sometimes better to give that cake away than to eat it yourself, since it delivers such intense pleasure to the recipient (hence the name!). So either make two, or follow the gift one with Alison Romans super-popular recipe for salted chocolate chunk shortbread cookies. Those you can eat by yourself on the couch, watching freestyle skiing: U.S.A.Also, perhaps, at some point between now and Monday, in addition to the popcorn youll eat at Black Panther: slab bacon tacos. Shrimp burgers. Radish sandwiches with butter and salt. Its the weekend. Make it into whatever you like.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.There are thousands of other recipes to consider making this weekend on NYT Cooking. Take out a subscription to access them, if you havent already, and then get to work saving them away in a recipe box, where you can organize them as you see fit.And if anything goes wrong along the way, or if you run into trouble with a particular recipe, reach out to us for help. Were at cookingcare@nytimes.com. Well take care of you.Head on over to our Facebook, and visit us on Instagram as well. Check out my Twitter page for media notes, fishing stories and plenty of food.Finally, I think youll like Ivy Pochoda on the closing of a neighborhood bar, on Grub Street.I hope youll like Middle Kids, Mistake. Their album will be out in May.And I know youll like these images from the 142nd Westminster Kennel Club dog show, which ended this week. Ill see you on Sunday. Cook something good.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By BEN HUBBARDFEB. 21, 2018
BEIRUT, Lebanon — On New Years Eve, a Lebanese celebrity soothsayer predicted that Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, would be advised to eat less fast food.For the host of a popular comedy show in Lebanon, it was a great hook for a joke.With everything happening in the region, your advice is that he give up hamburgers? the host, Hicham Haddad, said during his show, referring to the young prince whose policies have shaken the Arab world. I advise him to stop the fast policies, the fast campaigns, the fast military strikes! But fast food? Why do I care?The powers that be were not amused, and the public prosecutor filed charges of libel and defamation of a foreign leader against Mr. Haddad.When Mr. Haddad struck back on his next show, appearing in prison scrubs and singing about the prosecutor while a belly dancer gyrated nearby, a council of judges called for further charges of insulting the judiciary.These cases were among a series of recent legal moves against entertainers, journalists and activists in Lebanon that rights groups worry could stifle free expression in one of the Arab worlds freest environments. While the reason for the rise in cases remains unclear, many suspect that powerful parties are using the courts to prevent criticism of the authorities before parliamentary elections this year.AdvertisementThe bottom line is that you have criminalization of nonviolent speech in Lebanon, speech that criticizes politicians and national symbols, said Lama Fakih, the Beirut director for Human Rights Watch.AdvertisementFree speech has long been under fire across the Arab world, where authoritarian governments have an array of laws they can use to lock up those who criticize leaders, government institutions or religion, even on their own Facebook pages.In 2012, Qatar sentenced a poet to life in prison for criticizing the royal family. (Qatars emir pardoned him in 2016.) This month, Saudi Arabia sentenced a journalist to five years in prison for criticizing the royal court. In its conflict with Qatar, the United Arab Emirates warned last year that prison terms and hefty fines awaited anyone who showed sympathy to Qatar or opposed the governments stance against it. Egypt and Syria have locked up countless critics over the years.Lebanon is better off when it comes to free expression. As a fragile democracy where power is shared by a range of political and religious groups, it has no dictator who can impose his will. On the contrary, it hosts an array of newspapers and television channels that cater to different tastes and are funded by political groups and powerful individuals to promote their agendas and undermine their rivals. The Constitution also guarantees freedom of speech.Still, some of the countrys laws lay down red lines. It is a crime to libel or defame foreign leaders and public officials or to insult the president, the flag, the army or other national symbols. Other laws ban blasphemy and speech deemed insulting to religion.In the past, they have been inconsistently enforced, and it is the recent rise in speech-related cases that is worrying journalists and human rights campaigners.Marcel Ghanem, a popular talk show host, was summoned for questioning in cases against two Saudis who accused the Lebanese president and speaker of Parliament of links to terrorism while appearing as guests on his program. When he refused to show up, in protest of the charges, he was charged with obstruction of justice.Last month, a military court sentenced the political analyst Hanin Ghaddar in absentia to six months in prison for comments deemed insulting to the Lebanese Army, in a talk in Washington in 2014.AdvertisementHuman Rights Watch documented other cases in a recent report: an activist summoned for questioning and detained over comments he made on Facebook; a man detained for writing a post that was perceived as insulting the Virgin Mary; and an Islamist organizer who was arrested and charged with defaming the president and insulting a brotherly country.In an interview, Salim Jreissati, Lebanons justice minister, denied an attack on free speech in Lebanon, comparing those who promoted such an idea to Don Quixotes attacking windmills.We are proud that in this murky, desert region that surrounds us when it comes to freedoms, we are a country of freedoms par excellence, he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He said that laws placing limits on free speech were necessary to prevent flare-ups in a diverse country with a weak central state and a history of sectarian violence, including a 15-year civil war that ended in 1990.We are fragile, he said. Our body is still soft, our democracy is soft.Speech-related cases in Lebanon rarely lead to significant prison time. But the concern, rights groups say, is that the threat of prosecution will chill public discourse, deterring citizens from expressing their thoughts or criticizing powerful people or institutions.If you want to have a stable country, you need to not be going after journalists and civil society organizations that are giving the facts about what is going on, said Ms. Fakih, of Human Rights Watch.For Mr. Haddad, the comedian, the cases have brought unprecedented attention to his show, Enough Is Enough, which airs weekly.He describes the show as a cross between Jay Leno and Jon Stewart, with a touch of Conan OBrien, and the format is familiar. Mr. Haddad sits at a desk, riffs on the weeks news, comments on unflattering videos, receives celebrities and chats with the studio band. His biting sarcasm and pointed attacks on politicians have earned him many fans and strong ratings.Mr. Haddads troubles began with the fortunetellers prediction about Prince Mohammed and fast food.AdvertisementPrince Mohammed has overturned conventions across the Middle East in recent years, beginning a military intervention in Yemen, locking up fellow princes and businessmen on charges of corruption and trying to force Lebanons prime minister to resign.Those actions seemed more important to Mr. Haddad than the princes diet.He grows a gut or he doesnt grow a gut, why do I care? he said on the program. What do I have to do with the cholesterol of the crown prince?A few weeks later, the public prosecutor filed charges against him, outraging many Lebanese frustrated with more fundamental concerns, like their governments failure to offer reliable electricity.
            The country is a mess but all what the Lebanese judiciary cares about is prosecuting comedians.... #جمهورية_ال#هشام_حداد On his next program, Mr. Haddad appeared in black-and-white-stripe prison scrubs and showed clips of Lebanese personalities who had stood up for him. Then, shimmying next to a scantily clad belly dancer, he addressed the state prosecutor in song, suggesting that a case about the countrys failure to pick up its garbage would be more worthwhile.Unimpressed, the High Judicial Council called for new charges, for damaging the prestige of the judiciary, according to Achraf Moussawi, Mr. Haddads lawyer.He presents a comedy show that puts joy and laughter into peoples hearts, Mr. Moussawi said. It is not a show for political criticism or a political show.Mr. Haddad does not expect to stand trial, but his channel could eventually pay a fine of more than $13,000, he said.He said he expected that others would avoid criticizing powerful people to avoid trouble, but vowed to keep his show the same.This is what I do, he said. I dont do a cooking show. I do comedy.Follow Ben Hubbard on Twitter: @NYTBen.Nada Homsi and Hwaida Saad contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Tolerance Drying Up in a Mideast Oasis of Free Speech.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Veronique GreenwoodConsider the cocktail umbrella. Like their larger counterparts, these wee things can be furled and unfurled easily. Once you tire of playing with them, you can lock them into the open position with a little latch before continuing to enjoy your drink.Now imagine you have hundreds of cocktail umbrellas under your skin. This, it turns out, is fairly close to reality for cuttlefish, the sprightly relatives of squids and octopuses, according to new research.Biologists at the University of Cambridge and the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Mass., have discovered that cuttlefish, masters of camouflage whose shape-shifting talents have fascinated biologists for decades, can lock hundreds of tiny structures under their skin into an upright position, giving themselves a particular texture, then go on their way without expending any energy to keep up the look.This is the first time anyone has seen anything like this in cuttlefish, a reminder that even much-studied species still have some surprising secrets.Cuttlefish are the chameleons of the sea: Put one in front of a bank of seaweed and he or she will immediately activate a set of reflectors and colored cells in the skin to match their background and fade from view.Whats more, they will mimic the texture of their environment using little nodules called papillae that they extend and retract using muscles. They can make themselves look like a cobbled seafloor, a spiny piece of coral or a hunk of granite.Theyre even clever enough that theyll put the posture of their arms to match things in their environment, said Trevor Wardill, a neurobiologist at the University of Cambridge and contributor to the study, published Thursday in iScience. If theres seaweed on a 45-degree angle, theyll set their arms to match.In the current study, as part of an experiment to help understand how cuttlefish control their color and shape, Dr. Wardills colleague Paloma Gonzalez-Bellido snipped a nerve that controls one section of the cuttlefishs skin.One of the two cuttlefish she used in the experiment, as expected, kept its skin smooth and could no longer change color in the portion affected by the surgery, though it swam around healthily enough.The other, however, had had its papillae extended at the moment the cut was made. To Dr. Gonzalez-Bellidos surprise, they did not relax. Instead, as she perplexedly moved the animal to different water tanks and watched its unaffected side change shape and color quite normally, the papillae stayed up. Only after an hour did they finally subside.It turns out that these papillae can be locked in position if they are dosed with certain neurotransmitters, which that particular cuttlefish had likely just released when the nerve was cut.The researchers believe that cuttlefish use this previously unknown locking mechanism to sustain their disguise as a piece of rock or coral without having to actually hold their muscles in the same posture for an extended period of time.This is similar to a well-known phenomenon in clams and related creatures: When these mollusks want to clam up, they lock the muscles that open and close their shells by altering the chemistry of certain muscle proteins. In both cases, it seems that this approach can save energy for the animal, as it doesnt have to strain to maintain its pose.Ultimately the study may offer a path toward understanding other mysteries about cuttlefish. If the researchers can decipher the individual neurons that control each of these papillae and understand better how this lock functions, it may lead to deeper insights into how these strange and beautiful creatures hide themselves in plain sight._____Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.Advertisement

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
FEB. 14, 2018
Good morning. Happy Valentines Day, if you celebrate that feast of courtly love. Its a nice evening for cooking someone special a rib-eye steak with potatoes (above) — or at any rate a nice evening for cooking something special for someone, even if its just a mug of spicy hot chocolate (or a platter of Melissa Clarks brownie-style cookies with white chocolate, nuts and dried cherries!)No? Be kind to people on this day, however you feel about the hearts and Cupids and flowers. Not everyones a cynic. Not everyones happy. But pretty much everyone likes sweet potato fries.I could see making shrimp scampi this evening, as a gesture of affection for those I feed. I could absolutely imagine serving a bowl of pappardelle with greens and ricotta. I might make Rishia Zimmerns amazing recipe for chicken with shallots, and put a Valentine card in front of each setting at the table. Apple crisp for dessert! With ice cream!Or, because its Wednesday, and theres no way Im making ice cream on a Wednesday, I might freestyle dessert in keeping with our midweek tradition of cooking without a recipe: Valentines sundaes of strawberry ice cream with hot fudge. The fudge is easy so long as you keep the ratios right: 1 cup each of cocoa powder, white sugar and heavy cream, whisked together over medium heat; 1 stick of unsalted butter, stirred in by pats until everythings velvet; a glug of vanilla and youre good to go. Drizzle that over the strawbo, and call this evening a win. It beats the jarred stuff from the bodega by a considerable margin. Store what you dont eat in the refrigerator, in a covered jar.AdvertisementOther things to make in coming days: salmon with sesame and herbs; chicken teriyaki; pressure-cooker pho. And some day real soon, this new recipe for Limpin Susan, a Gullah relation to Hoppin John that Kim Severson picked up from the Charleston chef B.J. Dennis while she was reporting on the discovery of a lost strain of African hill rice. Its an okra stir-fry, essentially, and I think itd be great with shrimp. So that, too.AdvertisementThousands and thousands of other recipes to make this week are on NYT Cooking. Yes, youll need a subscription to access them, but we think what weve got and what we offer will be worth the time and scratch. Let me know if that exercises you, either way. Im here to serve: foodeditor@nytimes.com.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.And if anything goes wrong with your subscription or with a recipe or with the technology we use to run everything you see, just write the good people at cookingcare@nytimes.com. Theyre invaluable and kind. (Speaking of, come join us on Facebook, where were building a friendly community of the food obsessed. Try us on Instagram as well!)Now, a very long way from the spice rack and drawer full of knives, I think you should spend some time with The New Vintage, a feature on the Popular Mechanics site that celebrates Americans and the cars they love. Heres the latest, about Jackie Kearneys 1991 Mitsubishi Montero.You should absolutely read Lisa Demers farewell column in the Anchorage Daily News, about her time spent reporting on rural Alaska life from her bureau in Bethel, in the Yukon Delta.And it is always the right time to listen to the Jam. This is Eton Rifles, live. See you on Friday.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byNRATV, the organizations online video channel, has become a little-noticed but vital forum for the dissemination of some of the most strident pro-gun messaging in politics.By Jeremy W. Peters and Katie BennerWASHINGTON — Whenever there is a mass shooting, the National Rifle Association has a well-rehearsed response: Say very little until the inevitable discussion about gun control cools down. But as the leaders of the countrys most influential gun advocacy group kept quiet after the school shooting last week in Parkland, Fla., that claimed 17 lives, a furious debate played out on NRATV, the organizations online video channel. Its hosts spoke chillingly of leftist plots to confiscate weapons, media conspiracies to brainwash Americans into supporting gun control and a deep state campaign to undermine President Trump.Coastal, socialist media elites hate guns so much, said one of the hosts, Grant Stinchfield, a Second Amendment activist based in Dallas and a radio commentator, that they would take everyones away, leaving only criminals, of course, with the firepower — and all of us at the mercy of evil.Critics of the N.R.A. say that they have observed a shift in the organizations tone since Mr. Trump was elected that is much more pugilistic, and that NRATV is where the most outrageous commentary occurs. This change, they say, seems to reflect the fact that like many organizations on the right, the N.R.A. believes it has to guard against complacency among its members with a friendly president in the White House.Theres no boogeyman in the White House now to make people afraid of, said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action, a gun control advocacy group. So they have to make us afraid of one another, and that is how they will market guns in an age when they have a president beholden to them. The channel has become a little-noticed but vital forum for the dissemination of some of the most strident pro-gun messaging in politics today, with hosts and guests who are closely allied with Mr. Trump. Few news media operations seem as in sync with the political sensibilities of the Trump era. They attack the enemies he attacks, condemning the news media as dishonest and failing. They have questioned the credibility of the F.BI., whose failure to act on tips about the suspect in the Florida shooting has intensified criticism from conservatives seeking to discredit the bureau — this week, Dana Loesch, an N.R.A. spokeswoman, encouraged mass demonstrations outside F.B.I. offices.And they often side with Mr. Trump in divisive cultural disputes — some of which have potent racial undercurrents — like his feuding with Black Lives Matter activists and the professional football players who knelt during the national anthem.With broadcast television-quality production and three dozen original series, NRATV has the ability to reach millions of people through the channels that distribute it like Apple TV, Roku and Amazon Fire TV. And it has significant resources at its disposal as part of the N.R.A.s far-reaching membership support program. In recent years, that operation alone spent $35.5 million, according to its most recent publicly available tax filing.But it is just the newest piece of a larger news media operation inside the N.R.A. that receives little attention compared with the groups political and lobbying activity. The organization produces at least seven print and online magazines that have a combined circulation of more than 11 million, according to the N.R.A. Its biggest social media channels on Facebook and Twitter count about 8.7 million followers. On YouTube, five N.R.A.-controlled channels have shared videos that have received nearly 102 million views. Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the N.R.A., declined to discuss the media effort, the size of its online audience or its programming in the wake of the Parkland shooting. As a matter of policy, he said, the N.R.A. does not discuss proprietary matters. NRATV is a budding business for the organization, which has brokered sponsorship arrangements with gun makers like Kimber, Mossberg and Ruger to feature their firearms on its programs. Its series cover a range of topics and interests intended to appeal to gun owners of all kinds, like Armed and Fabulous, which profiles rifle-slinging women; Frontlines, a newsmagazine hosted by Oliver North; and Under Wild Skies, which follows hunters in pursuit of big-game trophies. But politics and provocation are NRATVs specialty. It has singled out news outlets and attacked individual journalists like Don Lemon of CNN, who was targeted in an ad that accused the anchor and his network of smearing Mr. Trump and colluding with Hillary Clintons presidential campaign. In one video released this month, Ms. Loesch, a former Tea Party activist and Breitbart editor, pretended she was about to burn a copy of The New York Times.Stories that circulate throughout right-wing news media often find their way to NRATV, which has devoted numerous segments to portraying anti-Trump demonstrators as paid shills, violent extremists and evangelists for Shariah law in the United States.Its guests and hosts are not shy of trading in racially charged language and imagery. A promo for a program called Noir featuring a Navy SEAL member named Dom Raso opens with a dramatization of a foiled robbery. A black man wielding a knife grabs and forces a white woman to the ground as an armed bystander reaches for his handgun and rushes to her defense. After Mr. Trumps inauguration last year, an NRATV correspondent, Chuck Holton, tweeted that it was time to get busy scrubbing Obamas mocacchino stain off of America! — an apparent reference to the color of President Barack Obamas skin.The N.R.A.s practice is to keep a low profile after mass shootings, as it did after the massacres in Newtown, Conn., and at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Fla. But it was always quietly talking to its members, first by email and later on NRATV, said Danny Barefoot, a partner at Anvil Strategies, an ad agency and communications company that has worked with gun control groups. In those moments, the goal isnt to disseminate mass information and persuade a lot of people,  Mr. Barefoot said. The strategy is to be a messenger to the N.R.A.s own people. Eli Pariser, the co-founder of Upworthy, a site that delivered progressive political videos to targeted audiences on Facebook, said that while videos produced by NRATV after a shooting might not go viral, they helped viewers feel theyre part of a community, led by a news source that speaks to them.NRATV can galvanize members in the wake of a shooting in part because the N.R.A. has coached its followers to believe that the organization is the only credible source for news and information on any gun issue or controversy. NRATVs slogan — Americas Most Patriotic Team on a Mission to Take Back The Truth — reinforces a sense of mistrust in traditional news media, as do its hosts. In the days after the Parkland shooting, Mr. Stinchfield and Ms. Loesch, two of the channels most prominent faces, were relentless in their attacks on the news media.If it can topple us, it gets a direct path to the Second Amendment, Mr. Stinchfield told viewers this week from the organizations studio in Dallas. They will stop at nothing to put us out of business.Some of his more recent antics have included taking a sledgehammer to a television set as clips from MSNBC, CNN and ABC play onscreen, and inviting North Korea to launch a nuclear weapon on Sacramento, where the California state legislature has approved numerous gun control measures opposed by the N.R.A.Mr. Stinchfield went on to question the competence and motivation of the F.B.I. It is time the F.B.I. got back to the business of keeping Americans safe, instead of being so focused on political vendettas, he said. He then turned the microphone over to Mr. Holton, who saw a slippery slope in new gun regulations and identified a new culprit in the proliferation of school shootings: the news media.People could just as easily call for restrictions on the first amendment, Mr. Holton said. They could say, Hey, lets make it illegal to report on those school shootings because we all know, I mean, theres no doubt that the media circus that takes place every time one of these things happens causes more school shootings. Jeremy W. Peters covers national politics in the Washington bureau. His other assignments in his decade at The Times have included covering the financial markets, the media, New York politics and two presidential campaigns.
   @jwpetersNYTFacebook   @jwpetersNYTFacebookKatie Benner covers the Justice Department. She previously wrote about the technology industry from San Francisco. Before coming to The Times, she was a tech columnist at Bloomberg and reported on financial markets for Fortune.  @ktbennerAdvertisementBy PATRICK BOEHLERFEB. 20, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.The latest from the Winter Olympics, Irans secretive war in Syria and the resurgent popularity of opera music in Europe. Heres the news:• Curling, a sport not accustomed to high-profile controversy, has been rocked by a failed doping test by a Russian medal winner at the Winter Olympics.The French ice dancers Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron won silver a day after gracefully skating through a wardrobe malfunction.And our Pyeongchang team looked at the German Olympians sport drink of choice: beer, of course (but nonalcoholic).Here are the full Olympic medals table, results and schedule._____• Iran is training thousands of militiamen in Syria, in an effort to expand its network of militant proxies in the Middle East. (Above, satellite imagery of bases in Syria.)AdvertisementIts goals, according to analysts, are changing the regions strategic map and building a united front in a possible future war with Israel.AdvertisementOur correspondent in the city of Kobani writes about how Kurdish fighters are using the veneration of the war dead as a potent recruiting tool.(And in a not-very-subtle act of defiance, Turkey renamed the U.S. Embassys street in Ankara after its military offensive in Syria against Kurdish forces.)_____• Ukraines conflict with pro-Russian separatists is slowly mutating in the public mind from a heroic struggle into yet another sinkhole of profiteering and graft. (Above, a protest camp in Kiev.)Our correspondent took a closer look at the sale of military ambulances meant to assist wounded troops.Sold to the armed forces by a friend of President Petro Poroshenko, the vehicles were unsuitable for the front lines._____• In Washington, the White House indicated that President Trump was open to supporting a bipartisan effort to revise federal background checks for prospective gun buyers in the wake of last weeks deadly shooting at a school in Florida.Around the U.S., teachers are reflecting on whether they are prepared to take a bullet for their students. I think about it all the time, one said.AdvertisementSocial media bot swarms tied to Russia rushed to inflame the American debate on gun control.Our fact-check found that claims by a Facebook executive, whose tweets about Russias disinformation effort received widespread attention after they were cited by Mr. Trump, were only partly true._____• In Europe, opera music is hip again, in part thanks to a new focus on theatrical performance (and discounted tickets).Nearly 100,000 people younger than age 28 went to see the Paris Opera last season. Londons Royal Opera also had a large younger following.(Above, a scene from Romeo Castelluccis production of Schoenbergs Moses und Aron in Paris.)In other classical music news, Ping-Pong made its philharmonic debut in New York.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• At Google, Facebook and other tech companies, executives are making statements about priorities with their office seating arrangements. (One example: A.I. researchers get to sit next to the boss.)• Spains economy minister, Luis de Guindos, is poised to become vice president of the European Central Bank, raising hopes in Madrid for more clout in the E.U.s halls of power.• The European Central Bank froze payments by ABLV Bank, one of Latvias biggest banks, amid accusations, which it denies, of doing business with North Korea. The Baltic countrys central bank chief, who is facing separate bribery charges, has been released from detention on bail.• An enviable job dilemma: A reader retired early but now feels adrift and wonders whether to get back into the work force. And if so, how?Advertisement•  Heres a snapshot of global markets.• In Germany, the far-right AfD party overtook the Social Democrats for the first time in a poll. Rank-and-file Social Democrats begin to vote on a new coalition deal today. [Politico / Deutsche Welle]• President Trumps lawyer made headlines over his $130,000 payment to silence a pornographic film actress. But thats just one example of his behind-the-scenes efforts to protect his employer. [The New York Times]• A Spanish trial of a Russian lawmaker and 17 others on money-laundering charges could shed light on ties between organized crime and Russias elite. [ProPublica]• Readers, including a former member of the Hungarian Parliament, share their opinions on Prime Minister Viktor Orbans increasingly autocratic rule. [The New York Times — Letters to the Editor]• Oxfam, one of Britains largest charities, said three employees who were the subject of a 2011 inquiry into sexual misconduct in Haiti physically threatened a witness. [The New York Times]• In memoriam: Günter Blobel, the Nobel laureate who laid some of the foundations of modern cell biology, died at 81. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• A Paris-style hamburger respects, but doesnt replicate, steak tartare.• What to do with a day off? Nothing is one of our newsletters (best!) suggestions.• At any age, hangovers are trying to tell you something.Advertisement• Black Panther is not only a blockbuster at cinemas worldwide, its soundtrack is also a hit, opening at No. 1 on the Billboard chart in the U.S. (Heres our critics review of the album, which includes work by Babes Wodumo and other South African artists.)• The artist Geta Bratescu, 91, spent most of her career in obscurity in Communist Romania. She has come to international recognition late in life and now has a major show in Los Angeles.• At London Fashion Week, we tagged along with Adwoa Aboah, the model and activist, as best we could. (At the end of two jam-packed days, she headed home for a Thai green curry, some knitting and a long bath.)• Theres a new wave of reasonably priced restaurants in the Parisian quarter of Montmartre. Here are five places worth your appetite.• And good news in education: Students from anywhere in the world, even Britain, can now qualify for  the Rhodes scholarship to study at Oxford University.The Florida high school that was the site of last weeks mass shooting is named for her.But Marjory Stoneman Douglas, pictured above in 1987, has a much longer legacy in the history of Florida and the fight to preserve the Everglades, the tropical wetlands that once covered the southern part of the state.Born in Minnesota in 1890, she graduated from Wellesley College and for a period worked as a newspaper reporter for her father, the editor of The Miami Herald.She was later asked to contribute to a book series about U.S. rivers. In researching the Miami River, she became interested in the Everglades and persuaded her publisher to let her write about them instead.AdvertisementThe Everglades: River of Grass was published in 1947. An environmental classic, the book changed the way the U.S. viewed its wetlands, as important ecosystems and surge buffers rather than worthless swamps more useful when drained.But despite Mrs. Douglass warning that There are no other Everglades in the world, development has continued to encroach.The school now in the news was named in her honor in 1990, commemorating her 100th birthday. She died eight years later, in the same Miami cottage in which shed lived since 1926.Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing inaccurately described ABLV Bank. It is one of Latvias biggest banks, not one of Europes largest lenders.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By RAJAN MENONFEB. 12, 2018
THE UKRAINIAN NIGHT An Intimate History of Revolution By Marci Shore 290 pp. Yale University Press. $26On Nov. 21, 2013, Viktor Yanukovych, Ukraines president, abruptly suspended long-running negotiations on an association agreement with the European Union. Though Yanukovych personified the corruption, cronyism and oligarchical capitalism rampant in Ukraine, he had previously promoted the accord, which many Ukrainians, particularly in the countrys center and west, anticipated as a pathway to a better life and communion with the West.Within hours, thanks to Facebook and Twitter, protesters thronged Kievs Independence Square (Maidan Nezalezhnosti). Once the riot police started beating demonstrators, and especially after the first fatalities, Yanukovych was doomed. By late February, he had fled. Moscow reacted by annexing the Crimea, Ukraines sole Russian-majority region, and supporting an armed insurgency in the Donbass (eastern Ukraine), which, compared with central and western Ukraine, has been shaped more by Russian culture and the Soviet past and contains many ethnic Russians, as well as Ukrainians whose primary language is Russian. The fighting has killed more than 10,000 people and placed a heavy economic burden on a country that can ill afford it.Though the Maidan movement cleared the way for the election of the current Ukrainian government, led by the tycoon Petro Poroshenko, the reformers within it face fierce resistance from the beneficiaries of corruption and oligarchy, some of whom are in the cabinet. The reforms have stalled, eroding public faith in Ukraines political institutions. The dreams that drove the uprising may yet be realized — or dashed, as happened after the 2004 Orange Revolution, whose failure enabled Yanukovychs election in 2010.AdvertisementThe Ukrainian Night, the Yale historian Marci Shores compact book (its large-font chapters typically range from two to seven pages), seeks to portray the ideals that animated the protesters. Shore succeeds admirably, particularly because she tells the story through their words. Her sympathy for their courage and her support for a democratic Ukraine aligned with the West are evident, her depictions of the sights, sounds and smells on the Maidan superb. In lucid, if occasionally overwrought, prose she draws evocative portraits of people who braved the bitter cold — and truncheons and bullets — to create a parallel polis with barricades, soup kitchens, libraries, rock concerts, fiery speakers and solidarity among Ukrainians of disparate backgrounds.This is not a work of historical scholarship, nor is it comparable to the detailed eyewitness reportage of writers like Keith Gessen or Sophie Pinkham. Shore strides through centuries of Ukraines past, but the result verges on potted history: It offers little to readers familiar with Ukraine and not nearly enough for novices seeking to understand the stark cultural and political variations within the country or the complex forces that produced the Maidan revolution. Shore wishes to give the movement a human face, but she devotes so much space to peoples appearances, professions, families, ruminations and inner thoughts that her account resembles a collage of personalities.AdvertisementShore does not dispute that Yanukovych was elected fairly in 2010 yet fails to explain how a crook and a thug (hoodlum is her apt description), who betrayed even the inhabitants of the Donbass, his political bastion, prevailed, or why he suddenly shelved the association agreement. Given her overwhelming focus on Kiev and parts west, she says little about those Ukrainians in Crimea and the Donbass who opposed the Maidan revolt. Generally, they are voiceless — spoken for by Shore herself, or by her pro-Maidan interlocutors (who tend to characterize them as troglodytes). The internal political differences produced by Ukraines history are obscured, or dismissed as backward when they do not align with the ideals of the Maidan.The Ukrainian Night vividly depicts life on the Maidan. It is less effective in uncovering Ukraines complexities and the roots of a still-unfinished revolution.Rajan Menon is a professor of international relations at City College/CUNY and the author, with Eugene B. Rumer, of Conflict in Ukraine.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.A version of this review appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page BR15 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Revolution From the Inside.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
FEB. 12, 2018
Good morning. These are hard commutes some of us are taking these days, after long nights watching the Olympics, cheering the giant slalom, trying to understand curling, digging the slopestyle, eating a lot of fried chicken on the couch. The hard slap of the newspaper hitting the front door awakens us in the morning with a start. And the cycle continues: D.J. Puffy Eyes heads out to the spare bedroom to make more SoundCloud rap. (Or, you know, goes to the cube farm to write newsletters and talk about 2018 KPIs.)I think comforting foods can help at night, just as much as the warm embrace of real sleep. Try out this great recipe I scored from the chef Chris Jaeckle back in 2014, for polenta with mushrooms and soy (above). Its phenomenally good.Or, if youd prefer fish, try this terrific salty-sweet salmon dinner with a spicy cucumber salad.I made this mapo ragu the other night after walking home in freezing rain from two canceled ferries and a lumbering bus full of Norovirus and rage, mixed rice cakes into it and a big bunch of mustard greens. Thats a flu killer, right there, and delicious to boot. You could make that.Or you could steer into old-school domesticity, make grilled cheese sandwiches to dunk in tomato soup. Thats a fine way of making dinner at the start of the week seem as if its a Sunday lunch, and bed afterward as luxurious as an afternoon nap.AdvertisementCreamy pasta with smoked salmon and arugula? Roman egg-drop soup? A platter of roasted brussels sprouts with pomegranate-tahini sauce that you can spear with toothpicks as you watch people luge?AdvertisementThe point is simply to cook tonight for no other reason than it will make you feel a little better than you did in the morning, palming Advils and drinking coffee before walking the dog.Remember, though: Tomorrow is Mardi Gras, Shrove Tuesday, a last chance to eat big before the Lenten season of fasts and self-denial. (Im giving up Red Bull myself.) Here are a lot of recipes you could plan to cook for the feast — poboys, for one, and so, so great.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many, many, many more recipes for this week are waiting for you on NYT Cooking. Take out a subscription to gain access to them, and for the chance to save and organize them in whatever order you like. (You can use your recipe box even if the recipes dont come from The Times. Check out our tools page.)If anything goes wrong along the way, do reach out for help. Write cookingcare@nytimes.com. Well write back. Or come join us on Facebook, where the comments run fast and furious and fun. You can find us on Instagram as well, if you like browsing pictures of beautiful food.Now, on the subject of cheeseburgers in paradise, do read Taffy Brodesser-Akner on Jimmy Buffett, who emphatically does not live the Jimmy Buffett lifestyle.Afield of food entirely, Im pretty stoked to get going on Robert Harriss new thriller, Munich.And see what you make of this dispatch from Raan Jay Fai in Bangkok, a Michelin-starred street food stand that wants to return its star. In a video, Supinya Junsuta, the restaurants chef and owner, prepares the crab omelet that has brought her fame. Her technique is impressive, and her goggles out of this world. Enjoy. Ill see you on Wednesday.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MAGGIE ASTORFEB. 9, 2018
The assignment from Nichole Wards microbiology professor was simple: Choose a location, open a petri dish for three minutes and observe what grew over the next two days.No ones sample came back clean — a foregone conclusion given that a petri dish opened in any nonsterile room will collect microbes from the air. But when Ms. Ward returned to class with a dish that she had put in an enclosed Dyson hand dryer in a womens restroom, the colonies of fungi and bacteria that had grown in it outstripped anything her classmates had found in their chosen locations.Mine just had so much more mass in the fungal growth, she said in a phone interview on Thursday. Their little colonies were just a speck here and a speck there. It just stood out by far.Without further testing, which the class did not do, it is impossible to say whether the organisms in Ms. Wards petri dish were harmful to humans. But when she posted a photo on Facebook at the urging of her classmates, more than 500,000 people shared it in a matter of days.AdvertisementMany horrified commenters vowed never to use a hand dryer again. Others ridiculed what they called unscientific fearmongering. Ms. Ward, who is taking the microbiology class as a prerequisite for a nursing program, said she had even received death threats.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Dyson, the manufacturer of the hand dryer she used, said in a statement to ABC that it was very surprised to see these results, and unclear on the methodology employed.AdvertisementAll Dyson Airblade hand dryers have HEPA filters that capture particles as small as bacteria from the washroom air before it leaves the machine, the company said. Dyson Airblade hand dryers are proven hygienic by university research and are trusted by hospitals, food manufacturers and businesses worldwide.Whether hand dryers do, in fact, spread pathogens is a matter of dispute among scientists.The hot air will kill the bacteria on the hands, but some studies have found they will also deposit bacteria in the restroom on your hands — i.e., from the air, said Charles P. Gerba, a microbiologist at the University of Arizona.A study published in 2016 in The Journal of Applied Microbiology found that jet air dryers — high-powered machines like the one Ms. Ward used — contaminated the surrounding area with 1,300 times as many viral particles as a paper towel would. Standard hand dryers — those that simply blow warm air — spread far fewer particles, but still 60 times as many as a paper towel. (Dyson said when that study was released that it had been conducted under unrealistic conditions: Participants hands were thoroughly coated with a virus, which would not be the case for a typical pair of just-washed hands.)A similar study in 2014, using a bacterium instead of a virus, found that jet air dryers spread 4.5 times as much bacteria as warm air dryers, and 27 times as much as paper towels — but the study was funded by a trade association for paper manufacturers. Another study published in 2010 found that jet air dryers resulted in fewer bacteria on the hands than warm air dryers — but it was funded by Dyson.One of the few independently funded studies on the subject, published by the Mayo Clinic in 2000, found no statistically significant hygienic difference between dryers and paper towels.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Kevin Roose
 

THE SHIFT
FEB. 10, 2018
Among the many, many Democrats who will seek the partys presidential nomination in 2020, most probably agree on a handful of core issues: protecting DACA, rejoining the Paris climate agreement, unraveling President Trumps tax breaks for the wealthy.Only one of them will be focused on the robot apocalypse.That candidate is Andrew Yang, a well-connected New York businessman who is mounting a longer-than-long-shot bid for the White House. Mr. Yang, a former tech executive who started the nonprofit organization Venture for America, believes that automation and advanced artificial intelligence will soon make millions of jobs obsolete — yours, mine, those of our accountants and radiologists and grocery store cashiers. He says America needs to take radical steps to prevent Great Depression-level unemployment and a total societal meltdown, including handing out trillions of dollars in cash.All you need is self-driving cars to destabilize society, Mr. Yang, 43, said over lunch at a Thai restaurant in Manhattan last month, in his first interview about his campaign. In just a few years, he said, were going to have a million truck drivers out of work who are 94 percent male, with an average level of education of high school or one year of college.That one innovation, he continued, will be enough to create riots in the street. And were about to do the same thing to retail workers, call center workers, fast-food workers, insurance companies, accounting firms.AdvertisementAlarmist? Sure. But Mr. Yangs doomsday prophecy echoes the concerns of a growing number of labor economists and tech experts who are worried about the coming economic consequences of automation. A 2017 report by McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, concluded that by 2030 — three presidential terms from now — as many as one-third of American jobs may disappear because of automation. (Other studies have given cheerier forecasts, predicting that new jobs will replace most of the lost ones.)Perhaps it was inevitable that a tech-skeptic candidate would try to seize the moment. Scrutiny of tech companies like Facebook and Google has increased in recent years, and worries about monopolistic behavior, malicious exploitation of social media and the addictive effects of smartphones have made a once-bulletproof industry politically vulnerable. Even industry insiders have begun to join the backlash.To fend off the coming robots, Mr. Yang is pushing what he calls a Freedom Dividend, a monthly check for $1,000 that would be sent to every American from age 18 to 64, regardless of income or employment status. These payments, he says, would bring everyone in America up to approximately the poverty line, even if they were directly hit by automation. Medicare and Medicaid would be unaffected under Mr. Yangs plan, but people receiving government benefits such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program could choose to continue receiving those benefits, or take the $1,000 monthly payments instead.AdvertisementThe Freedom Dividend isnt a new idea. Its a rebranding of universal basic income, a policy that has been popular in academic and think-tank circles for decades, was favored by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the economist Milton Friedman, and has more recently caught the eye of Silicon Valley technologists. Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen have all expressed support for the idea of a universal basic income. Y Combinator, the influential start-up incubator, is running a basic income  experiment with 3,000 participants in two states.Despite its popularity among left-leaning academics and executives, universal basic income is still a leaderless movement that has yet to break into mainstream politics. Mr. Yang thinks he can sell the idea in Washington by framing it as a pro-business policy.Im a capitalist, he said, and I believe that universal basic income is necessary for capitalism to continue.Mr. Yang, a married father of two boys, is a fast-talking extrovert who wears the nu-executive uniform of a blazer and jeans without a tie. He keeps a daily journal of things hes grateful for, and peppers conversations with business-world catchphrases like core competency. After graduating from Brown University and Columbia Law School, he quit his job at a big law firm and began working in tech. He ran an internet start-up that failed during the first dot-com bust, worked as an executive at a health care start-up and helped build a test-prep business that was acquired by Kaplan in 2009, netting him a modest fortune.He caught the political bug after starting Venture for America, an organization modeled after Teach for America that connects recent college graduates with start-up businesses. During his travels to Midwestern cities, he began to connect the growth of anti-establishment populism with the rise of workplace automation.The reason Donald Trump was elected was that we automated away four million manufacturing jobs in Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, he said. If you look at the voter data, it shows that the higher the level of concentration of manufacturing robots in a district, the more that district voted for Trump.Mr. Yangs skepticism of technology extends beyond factory robots. In his campaign book, The War on Normal People, he writes that he wants to establish a Department of the Attention Economy in order to regulate social media companies like Facebook and Twitter. He also proposes appointing a cabinet-level secretary of technology, based in Silicon Valley, to study the effects of emerging technologies.Critics may dismiss Mr. Yangs campaign (slogan: Humanity First) as a futurist vanity stunt. The Democratic pipeline is already stuffed with would-be 2020 contenders, most of whom already have the public profile and political experience that Mr. Yang lacks — and at least one of whom, Senator Bernie Sanders, has already hinted at support for a universal basic income.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Opponents of universal basic income have also pointed to its steep price tag — an annual outlay of $12,000 per American adult would cost approximately $2 trillion, equivalent to roughly half of the current federal budget — and the possibility that giving out free money could encourage people not to work. These reasons, among others, are why Hillary Clinton, who considered adding universal basic income to her 2016 platform, concluded it was exciting but not realistic.AdvertisementIn our political culture, there are formidable political obstacles to providing cash to working-age people who arent employed, and its unlikely that U.B.I. could surmount them, Robert Greenstein, the president of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington research group, wrote last year.But Mr. Yang thinks he can make the case. He has proposed paying for a basic income with a value-added tax, a consumption-based levy that he says would raise money from companies that profit from automation. A recent study by the Roosevelt Institute, a left-leaning policy think-tank, suggested that such a plan, paid for by a progressive tax plan, could grow the economy by more than 2 percent and provide jobs for 1.1 million more people.Universal basic income is an old idea, Mr. Yang said, but its an old idea that right now is uniquely relevant because of what were experiencing in society.Mr. Yangs prominent supporters include Andy Stern, a former leader of Service Employees International Union, who credited him with opening up a discussion that the countrys afraid to have. His campaign has also attracted some of Silicon Valleys elites. Tony Hsieh, the chief executive of Zappos, is an early donor to Mr. Yangs campaign, as are several venture capitalists and high-ranking alumni of Facebook and Google.Mr. Yang, who has raised roughly $130,000 since filing his official paperwork with the Federal Election Commission in November, says he will ultimately raise millions from supporters in the tech industry and elsewhere to supplement his own money.Mr. Yang has other radical ideas, too. He wants to appoint a White House psychologist, make taxes fun by turning April 15 into a national holiday and put into effect digital social credits, a kind of gamified reward system to encourage socially productive behavior. To stem corruption, he suggests increasing the presidents salary to $4 million from its current $400,000, and sharply raising the pay of other federal regulators, while barring them from accepting paid speaking gigs or lucrative private-sector jobs after leaving office.And although he said he was socially liberal, he admitted that he hadnt fully developed all his positions. (On most social issues, Mr. Yang said, I believe what you probably think I believe.)The likelihood, of course, is that Mr. Yangs candidacy wont end with a parade down Pennsylvania Avenue. Still, experts I spoke with were glad to have him talking about the long-term risks of automation, at a time when much of Washington is consumed with the immediate and visible.AdvertisementErik Brynjolfsson, the director of M.I.T.s Initiative on the Digital Economy and a co-author of The Second Machine Age, praised Mr. Yang for bringing automations economic effects into the conversation.This is a serious problem, and its going to get a lot worse, Mr. Brynjolfsson said. In every election for the next 10 or 20 years, this will become a more salient issue, and the candidates who can speak to it effectively will do well.Mr. Yang knows he could sound the automation alarm without running for president. But he feels a sense of urgency. In his view, theres no time to mess around with think-tank papers and super PACs, because the clock is ticking.We have five to 10 years before truckers lose their jobs, he said, and all hell breaks loose.Email Kevin Roose at kevin.roose@nytimes.com, or follow him on Facebook at facebook.com/kevinroose and on Twitter: @kevinroose.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page BU1 of the New York edition with the headline: His 2020 Slogan: Beware of Robots.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MATT STEVENSFEB. 17, 2018
A Baltimore County, Md., jury on Friday awarded more than $38 million to the family of a woman who was fatally shot by the police in 2016 after a standoff that had been partly broadcast on Instagram.The woman, Korryn Gaines, was shot several times by a Baltimore County police officer as her 5-year-old son lingered nearby, in the line of fire. During the standoff, the son, Kodi Gaines, was struck twice by the officers gunfire — once in the face and once in the elbow.After an approximately three-week trial and less than three hours of deliberation, the all-female jury found that the first shot the officer had fired was not reasonable; they then doled out damages on the grounds that Baltimore County had violated the Gaineses civil rights and had committed battery on the mother and son.The jury awarded Kodi Gaines, now 6, more than $32.8 million; Karsyn Courtney, Kodis younger sister, who was not in the apartment at the time of the shooting, was awarded more than $4.5 million; and Korryns mother and father were awarded $300,000 each, as was the estate of Korryn Gaines.AdvertisementKenneth Ravenell, a lawyer representing Kodi Gaines and his father, Corey Cunningham, called the verdict a huge win for his clients. While he acknowledged that the award was significant, he emphasized that he believed the payout was justified given that Kodi had been shot and continues to suffer from post-traumatic stress.AdvertisementEveryone should consider whether, if it was their child, would this number be too high? Mr. Ravenell said in a telephone interview on Friday.We are moved by the jurys swift verdict in this case, he continued. We believe it sends a message not only to the police officer who shot my client and killed his mother in front of him, we hope it sends a message to police officers around the country that the citizens here, and the citizens all around the country, are tired of police abuses.In a statement, Mike Field, the Baltimore County attorney, said the county was disappointed with the verdict and is reviewing all of its options, including an appeal.A mother died, a child was unintentionally injured, and police officers were placed in mortal danger, he said. By any account, this was a tragic situation.The Baltimore County Fraternal Order of Police Lodge No. 4, the police union, did not respond to a phone message or return an email requesting comment.As the case was unfolding, the police had said Ms. Gaines, 23, had a shotgun and had pointed it at an officer at least once during the confrontation.In the fall of 2016, the Baltimore County States Attorneys Office announced that it had completed its review of the shooting and had determined that it had been justified, and that criminal charges were not warranted. The officer who fired the shots, Royce Ruby, was promoted to the rank of corporal while the matter was pending, Mr. Ravenell said.AdvertisementThe Baltimore Sun reported that lawyers for the family had sought more than $42 million in damages.J. Wyndal Gordon, a lawyer for the estate as well as Karsyn Courtney and Korryns mother, Rhanda Dormeus, said he had sought more money for Ms. Dormeus, but had been awarded more money for Karsyn Courtney than he had asked for.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Were happy, Mr. Gordon said in a telephone interview on Saturday night.A lot of this case was about men, men, men — men feeling safe, men having their body armor, he added. This victory is a healing balm for women and children — for all those who have been ignored and dismissed when theyve made their allegations of police misconduct and abuse, this victory says, Me too.Defendants have a right to ask a judge to reduce the damages they must pay. But Mr. Ravenell said he did not believe the judge would make any changes.The police standoff involving Ms. Gaines occurred in Randallstown on Aug. 1, 2016, and lasted several hours. That Monday morning, the police were trying to serve her with an arrest warrant after she failed to appear in court on charges related a traffic stop. The police were also serving an arrest warrant on her boyfriend, Kareem Courtney, 39, who the police said was wanted on an assault charge.The first officer to enter the apartment testified that he saw Ms. Gaines holding a shotgun and that she had pointed it at him, according to The Sun. Officer Ruby also testified that he had observed Ms. Gaines seated in the hallway of her apartment, a shotgun on her lap and a cellphone to her ear, according to the newspaper.Mr. Ravenell confirmed that Ms. Gaines had posted videos during the standoff, effectively live-streaming what was going on. Through Facebook — which owns Instagram — the police were able to essentially deactivate her account just a minute or two before the fatal shot was fired, Mr. Ravenell said.Still, he said, Ms. Gainess use of live streaming played no part in what occurred here. He added that it was never alleged during the trial that her posts on social media played any part in escalating the situation. (Facebook did not immediately reply to a email seeking comment.)Eventually, Mr. Ravenell said, Officer Ruby fired the first shot from outside the apartment — a vantage point from which the officer could not see Kodi Gaines, the 5-year-old child. Mr. Ravenell said the officer knew the child was in the kitchen and allegedly could only see braids of Ms. Gainess hair and the barrel of a shotgun when he took a blind shot through the drywall.The shot struck Korryn Gaines in the back and also struck Kodi Gaines in the face, Mr. Ravenell said. The officer then went into the apartment and fired three more rounds, striking Ms. Gaines three more times and also striking Kodi Gaines a second time, Mr. Ravenell said.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Jury Awards $38 Million In Shooting By the Police.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Advertising By                     
 JOHN HERRMAN
 
FEB. 18, 2018
As advertising has become more intrusive in recent years, hundreds of millions of web users have installed ad-blocking software to ward off full-page pop-ups, blaring video pitches that start automatically and large ads with unstoppable countdown clocks that obscure the content you actually want to see.On Thursday, Google did something about the problem: The company updated its browser, Google Chrome, so that it bans such ads by default on mobile devices and desktop computers.The change will probably improve the average persons internet day — and give the tech giant an even greater role in shaping the web.The update to Chrome, first announced last year, is not a universal ad-blocker, the company insisted, but a filter. It will affect only those websites that allow four types of desktop ads and eight types of mobile ads that violate the standards established by a group called the Coalition for Better Ads, of which Google is a member (as is Facebook).AdvertisementBy focusing on filtering out disruptive ad experiences, we can help keep the entire ecosystem of the web healthy, and give people a significantly better user experience than they have today, Rahul Roy-Chowdhury, a Google vice president, wrote in a blog post on Feb. 13. We believe these changes will not only make Chrome better for you, but also improve the web for everyone.AdvertisementFor the most part, the update has been embraced by the industry. After all, it seems like a win for publishers, quality advertisers and users alike.But Google did not become the creator of the worlds most popular browser and a dominant advertising force by running its business in a manner that did not serve its own interests.With the Chrome update, the company hopes to come out ahead by lessening the temptation of web users to install more comprehensive ad-blocking software. In other words, Google is betting that ridding the web of especially intrusive ads will render it more hospitable to advertising in general — and more profitable for advertisers and Google itself.The new filter will be rolled out gradually to the browsers hundreds of millions of users. Website operators had a few months before the launch to become compliant; going forward, those who violate the standards will be given 30 days to get in line. If they dont, Google will demonstrate its leverage not by simply removing offending ads from a noncompliant site, but by disabling all of its ads. Revenue to the offending websites would presumably plummet as a result.Utilizing Chromes popularity in this way is yet another example of Googles singular position in the modern web.Chrome literally exists to protect Googles advertising business, said Mark Mayo, a vice president at Mozilla, the company behind the web browser Firefox, a competitor to Chrome. Google has done a tremendous amount of stuff — their products are web-based — and probably most of it positive, but what weve also seen, obviously, is a tremendous centralization.The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit digital rights organization, issued a statement on Friday that said the Google Chrome update fails to address the larger problem of tracking and privacy violations on the web. It also criticized Google and the Coalition for Better Ads, calling it a trade group that lacks a consumer voice.AdvertisementGoogle exploiting its browser dominance to shape the conditions of the advertising market raises some concerns, the foundation said.It took some time for Adblock Plus, which makes popular ad-blocking software that can be installed on Google Chrome, to figure out which types of ads, exactly, Google would be filtering, according to a company spokesman, Ben Williams. Once Adblock Plus had a firm idea, it determined that the update will not risk losing the interest of the tens of millions people who use its ad-blocking software.Chrome will not block ads that run before videos on sites like the Google-owned YouTube, for example. Such ads, which can be blocked by Adblock Plus, lay outside  the scope of the recommendations made by the Coalition for Better Ads.Its laudable, what theyre doing, getting rid of the worst of the worst formats, Mr. Williams said, but I dont think it will cause people not to download ad blockers or to uninstall them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Adblock Plus makes money, however, by accepting payments from major companies to white-list them — those who pay, that is, do not get blocked. Among those paying for the kind treatment: Google.Likewise, Mozilla, which is paid by Google for traffic sent to its search engine through Firefox, depends on the company for much of its revenue.As of Friday, Google said that 65 percent of the sites with ads that were out of compliance with the new rules had already made changes to go along with them. Forbes, which has long greeted visitors with an inspirational quote built into an ad equipped with a countdown clock, was among them.A few months ago, we had one minor infraction, which we immediately fixed, and we are now compliant, said Laura Daunis Brusca, a Forbes spokeswoman.In addition to introducing the update to its browser, Google announced last week that it was further expanding its Accelerated Mobile Pages program — which it developed in cooperation with a coalition of partners in 2015 to allow the faster loading of mobile web pages — to Gmail.AdvertisementThe Accelerated Mobile Pages framework provides standard formats for websites — including one for mobile websites to display Google Stories, a Google initiative that is very much like Snapchat Stories — as well as guidelines and limits for displaying advertising. The newly announced AMP for email project will allow users to complete tasks — such as submitting an RSVP or filling out a questionnaire — within Gmail.Publishers and advertisers have responded warmly to the speedy load times made possible by the Accelerated Mobile Pages program, but its adoption has also been rewarded more directly. According to Chartbeat, Google Mobile Search traffic to publishers that do not use Accelerated Mobile Pages has been flat over the past year, while publishers that have adopted the technology saw a jump of 100 percent in their mobile referrals from Google.With each improvement — whether it is the zapping of irksome ads or the restructuring of how mobile sites work — Google is continuing to consolidate its power over the web, which has lost its centrality in the modern internet ecosystem to platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Snapchat.So far, what has been good for users has tended to be good for Google, and the other way around. But the collision of the old notion of the web as a free and open space and the reality of it as a digital territory increasingly colonized by commercial interests has provoked worry among some users.Scott Spencer, a director of product management at Google, said the company is sensitive to consumers growing awareness of its power. Google is not neutral when it comes to the open web, he said. Were a search company, we want to ensure that there is a healthy and sustainable web for people to be searching and getting information from. Were also obviously an ad-serving company.He framed Chromes ad filter as the latest in a series of the browsers positive innovations, spanning back to the pop-up ad blocker in its original incarnation a decade ago and including more recent security protections against scams and malware.Mr. Spencer compared the web to a series of roads crowded by people trying to get to work. At some point someone has the idea that we need to put in some traffic lights, he said. Nobody likes waiting for the light, but everyone appreciates not getting stuck in traffic.Google is in a position to install and operate the traffic lights — with outside input, of course. It also raises questions about what sort of actor Google is on the web. Is it a government? A budding monopoly? A reluctant leader? All three?We dont want to be doing this alone, Mr. Spencer said. We understand the concerns that exist, and we want to make sure that other voices have a channel and are being heard.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Google,  Tamer  Of Ads .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Vito Perillo, a 93-year-old World War II veteran, was elected to his first term as mayor of Tinton Falls. But hes dealing with a familiar problem: a disagreeable Borough Council.By NICK CORASANITIFEB. 16, 2018
TINTON FALLS, N.J. — The new mayor here looked gleefully down at the 6-month old girl, the daughter of a councilman, but opted against the traditional political peck on the babys cheek — it was the germs, he said.Of course, there is not much that is traditional about this first-term mayor, Vito Perillo. He is a 93-year-old World War II veteran who had never held elected office. His campaign consisted largely of knocking on every door in town, accompanied by his campaign manager, and wearing out two pairs of shoes in the process. And he defeated a two-term incumbent who had been involved in the boroughs government for nearly two decades.His surprise victory last fall gave him a national profile — even Lester Holt of NBC came for an interview. Tinton Falls, a quaint town of roughly 18,000 people five miles inland from the Jersey Shore, was quickly in the spotlight, and it had its new mayor to thank.But now, after several weeks in office, he is running into the kind of traditional problem that plagues mayors across the country: a disagreeable Borough Council.AdvertisementTheres been a lot of pushback, but things are getting better now, Mr. Perillo said. He had expected to be able to appoint his choice for borough administrator and borough attorney quickly, but the Council was not moving as fast as he hoped.It took more than a month, but he finally has his administrator, Michael Skudera, though he is still waiting for the borough attorney to be approved. He calls his experience with the Council a bothersome thing, but chalks some of it up to a political miscalculation.When I ran for mayor, there were two people who ran for Council unopposed, and that was a big mistake, he said. I mean, I should have had two people run with me — at least I would have had two people on the Council that I could count on.Tinton Falls has a nonpartisan government so the Council does not caucus as political parties or proclaim allegiance to Republicans or Democrats. Mr. Perillo is a registered Republican, though he said that was because of a single vote long ago, adding that he has always been an independent.The battle with the Council has quickly enveloped the entire town. Mr. Perillos supporters have launched a Facebook group to back him, while his campaign Facebook has also been pushing his arguments.AdvertisementSoon, hundreds of people were flooding the normally staid Council sessions, loudly cheering on their new mayor. It elicited a rare emotion from Mr. Perillo: surprise.I dont know what was going on, he said. The public was doing more than I was. There were people who thought I wasnt being treated fairly.Some Council members have described their early dealings with Mr. Merillo as challenging, attributing it to the mayors inexperience.He is very new at politics, and the things that go on in the internal side of it, said Christopher Pak, a councilman. But hes working hard toward making it work.If there is a starting point for Mr. Perillos decades-long, relatively unplanned drift into politics, it might be sometime in the last year, when he finally reached a breaking point with his property tax bill, and grew increasingly angry at what he viewed was opaque spending by the towns administration. A whistle-blower lawsuit involving the Police Department that cost his town $1.1 million further motivated him.I wanted to find out what was going on actually, he said. That kind of ticked me off a little bit.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.So he made up his mind to run. Or, more precisely, walk.I asked a previous mayor, I says, Mayor so-and-so, howd you get elected, what was your secret? explained Mr. Perillo.Vito, he says, You gotta walk.In a stroke of luck in a campaign marked by good fortune, Mr. Perillos campaign manager, Steve Leech, was a former postal worker. Perhaps no one was better suited to canvass the 15-square-mile borough.We didnt really see the point of mailing a flier out if we could walk them to peoples doors, said Mr. Leech, 60, who has also been Mr. Perillos next-door neighbor since 1992.AdvertisementSo the two men with no political experience (Mr. Leech says did technically serve as campaign manager for a student council president in high school — Im two-for-two now) set out for a monthslong walkabout.Sometimes they just left fliers, while other times visits led to extended conversations. Mr. Perillo was always proud to end an encounter with a handshake, a grip that even after 93 years — 38 of them as an electrical engineer for the Department of Defense, plus a tour in the South Pacific during World War II — can still crack a knuckle.His vigor, he says, comes from keeping his body in motion. He tries to play golf at least two times a week, though he laments that he uses a golf cart now, and considers himself a consistent player (Sometimes I wish I could hit it like him, said his grandson, Mike Perillo-Gentile). Mr. Perillo also belongs to the local Y.M.C.A., regularly completing a demanding circuit of about 10 to 12 machines.I think thats why Im here today, is because I keep active, he said.His campaign was a sparse operation — aside from Mr. Leech, he relied on his family, especially Mr. Perillo-Gentile, who managed a lot of the online efforts and helped book his interviews. The two men are close; Mr. Perillo was the best man at his grandsons wedding last October. Though he passed on the bachelor party, he gave a standup comedy shtick toast that Mr. Perillo said had the crowd shouting his name.Theres more pictures of him on the dance floor than of me and my wife, Mr. Perillo-Gentile said.A month after the wedding, it was time to get to work running the town. Except no one had an instruction manual.I think when he won it was kind of like, Oh this is really cool, but then the next day it was, Oh, what do you do, we dont really know how to do anything, Mr. Perillo-Gentile said.So Mr. Perillo helped form an advisory team and laid out his plans. The newly minted mayor, who earned an M.B.A. from Fairleigh Dickinson University, was eager to delve into the towns $24 million budget.AdvertisementFor the first year, hopefully, I dont want to see any increase in the budget, he said. No increases. I want to hold the line on the budget, and I hope I can do that.He acknowledged that he has some tough negotiations to tackle that may affect the towns bottom line, including a new contract for the Police Department. But he has surprised people before — starting with the fact that he is in this position in the first place.If I didnt think I could win I wouldnt have run, Mr. Perillo said, before adding, But thats not completely true. I would have run anyway.Follow Nick Corasaniti on Twitter: @NYTnickcA version of this article appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Tinton Falls Mayor Is New to Office, but an Old Hand at Life.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
FEB. 5, 2018
Good morning. I used to feel guilty about how, some time at the top or middle of most weeks, Id have a loaf of fancy artisanal bread going stale on the counter, left over from a run to this cool bakery or that one on Saturday mornings. Maybe it happens to you, too, sometimes? How often can you make bread crumbs before youre taking them to work like extra zucchini in August?Comes now a fantastic recipe for French onion panade (above) from Samin Nosrat, along with a terrific column in The Times all about making it, to remove all shame from your purchase and failure to use. Indeed, Samin writes, you may find yourself buying good bread with the express purpose of letting it go stale just so you can make this meal: a kind of French onion soup thats more onion and bread and cheese than soup, though theres an enormous amount of stock in it, to rehydrate the stale slices that form its base.Heres hoping you can make that dish this week. But not only that dish!Check out Melissa Clarks new recipe for a chicken sheet-pan dinner with sweet potatoes, peppers and sage. Its amazing: velvety sweet potatoes next to soft and caramelized bell peppers next to crisp roasted chicken thighs and wafts of pungent sage. Too rich? Melissa doesnt mess around: thin slices of quick-pickled red onion provide a zip at the end, above the dense deliciousness. Get to that meal soon.Look, too, at Samins recipe for tofu on rice and quinoa. And Florence Fabricants recipe for chicken tagine with olives and preserved lemons. You could cook the fettuccine Alfredo they used to serve at Elaines, on the Upper East Side. And you could definitely make some cowboy cookies for dessert, on a weeknight, because you are a home cook now and that is what home cooks do. (What a triumph it is, seriously, to bake on a weeknight. Do so in your varsity jacket.)AdvertisementMany thousands more recipes to cook tonight and in coming days are on NYT Cooking. Take out a subscription if you havent already. Then go visit the site and apps and see what strikes your fancy. Or come visit us on our Facebook page to see whats striking ours. (Were on Instagram as well: lots of luscious photos of food.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.And please reach out for help, if you run into problems with the cooking or the technology. We are at cookingcare@nytimes.com and well get back to you as soon as we can.AdvertisementNow, far from pluots and nachos, heres Todd Purdum in Vanity Fair, on Richard Rodgers, Oscar Hammerstein and the birth of South Pacific. That is a must-read.Three Twitter follows for you, just because: Gene Demby of NPRs Code Switch team; Lisa Lucas, the executive director of the National Book Foundation; and David Hills, who photographs commercial fishermen.And thats that. America gathered around its flickering hearth last night to watch the Super Bowl and all its associated commercial enterprises, that amazing Eagles trick play that had Trey Burton throwing to quarterback Nick Foles for a touchdown at the end of the first half, Justin Timberlake at halftime, everyone cheering, drinking, eating chicken wings and molten blue cheese dip. I kept thinking about Brandin Cooks taking that bad hit early in the game, and about this new ad for The Times. There is a dark side to football, for all the revelry. See you on Wednesday.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS, AMY HARMON and JESS BIDGOODFEB. 16, 2018
From New Jersey to Kansas to Texas, the aftermath of the Florida high school shooting has turned the routine of going to class into a nerve-racking proposition, as schools have ordered new lockdown drills, beefed up security and in some cases closed down entirely.Since the killing of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., on Wednesday, teachers and administrators have been working to avoid a repeat in their own schools, while in many cases having to react to copycat threats or jittery nerves misinterpreting innocent sounds as approaching gunfire.There were metal detectors and bag checks at B.M.C. Durfee High School, in Fall River, Mass., on Friday morning, after an anonymous Snapchat post warned the school could turn into Florida part 2.In Nutley, N.J., the superintendent, Julie Glazer, shut down schools for all 4,100 students in the district after a parent reported seeing a video that included images of a student firing a gun and a school building. (The police said that there was no imminent threat and that the student was cooperating with them.)AdvertisementAs both the superintendent of the Nutley Public Schools and as a parent, and because of the nature of the world in which we live, there was no other decision to be made, the superintendent said in a statement.AdvertisementLaw enforcement officers have been busy rushing to schools. A Broward County deputy accidentally shot himself in the leg on Thursday while answering a mistaken report of a shooting in a school not far from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High.A community college south of Seattle that serves 17,000 students locked down its 80-acre campus on Friday morning as the police investigated reports of shots fired. No evidence of a shooting was found.Some of the incidents have led to arrests on charges that include making threats or false reports.Among those arrested: A 16-year-old student who, the local authorities said, got off a school bus in Macon County, N.C., threatened to return the next day and kill people, then mimed raking the area with gunfire; an 11-year-old girl in Davie, Fla., who was accused of leaving a note under an assistant principals door threatening to bring a gun to her middle school and kill people; and two high school students at Brooklyn Prospect Charter School who were accused of threatening on Snapchat to gun down their school, according to Sgt. Brendan Ryan of the New York Police Department.Threat or no, many schools ordered teachers to immediately practice lockdown drills. A teacher in Denver, Carlee Easton, said she moved items from a closet in her classroom to make more space for 9-year-olds to hide. A teacher in the Bronx, N.Y., Kaela Brundage, said she and her students practiced cramming into a bathroom, staying silent inside for five minutes. A few students cried even though they knew it was just practice, she wrote on Twitter.
            When we practiced the drill, all 25 students and 4 teachers were able to lock the door, shove ourselves in the bathroom, and lock that door in about 20 seconds. We stayed inside for about 5 minutes, totally silent. A few students cried even though they knew it was just practice.        Mindful of the Florida shooting, administrators supplied Jennings Senior High School in Jennings, Mo., with portable metal detectors and wands to search for weapons at the championship basketball game being held Friday night, said Rhonda Key, the principal. Dr. Key said this would not be permanent. Were just doing this because its so fresh, she said.You dont want to scare them, Dr. Key said. But when you talk about these things, you must also say there is a real world out there.Some districts sent messages on Friday that parents found disconcerting. We assure you that all rumors are being thoroughly investigated, read one from the administration of the Haldane Central School District in Putnam County, N.Y. At this moment, there is no credible threat to the district.AdvertisementNeedless to say, I am freaking out, wrote one parent on Facebook.At Da Vinci Arts Middle School in Portland, Ore., a drama teacher, Nicole Accuardi, took a different tack after listening to the fear and sadness expressed by many of her students.During the day on Thursday, her 150 or so drama students cut out paper hearts and stuffed them in their pockets. At a routine end-of-day assembly, on Ms. Accuardis cue, they stood up, threw the hearts in the air and sang You Are My Sunshine to the surprise of the other teachers and students. Many joined in.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many schools and districts have developed protocols for handling school shootings since 20-year-old Adam Lanza shot and killed 20 students and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in 2012.But those protocols would probably be revised, education officials said, with lessons learned from the latest shooting.There has to be an autopsy to really understand what went wrong and what went well, Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said Friday. I was really concerned the first day that there was too much self-congratulation by the pundits on TV. The first responders did an unbelievable job. The teachers did an unbelievable job. But kids were killed, people were killed.For instance, she said, it appeared that despite a well-honed intruder plan, the suspect in the Parkland shooting, an expelled former student named Nikolas Cruz, may have been able to take advantage of his knowledge of dismissal procedures to slip into the school at the end of the day, according to the authorities.But Ms. Weingarten also cautioned about overreacting. Not every threat was equally serious, she said: We have no idea these days whats a Russian bot and whats a copycat.Some schools took pains to try to keep nerves calm. At Dysart High School in El Mirage, Ariz., the principal took extra steps to make sure students knew the previously scheduled drill on Thursday was, in fact, just a drill. The reminder was included in the morning announcements, and was reiterated on the public address system several times throughout the day, said Zachery Fountain, a district spokesman.Eureka High School in California postponed its drill that had been scheduled for Thursday, partly because officials were concerned about the mental state of students, said Fred Van Vleck, the district superintendent.AdvertisementWe determined it was best to allow the teachers the time in the classroom to have the conversations with students, rather than running them through drills at this point, he said.But across the country, other officials were on edge as rumors and hoaxes flew at broadband speed. In the East Texas school district of Redwater, the superintendent, Kelly Burns, said the schools would be closed Friday, to address a rumor about a possible shooter.In Topsham, Me., an elementary school was evacuated on Friday morning in response to a threat, following frenzied speculation about a different threat to the high school.These are unsettling times. I too am a parent, and understand the fear and anxiety that school incidents generate, Brad Smith, the superintendent, said in a statement on Friday. We are pleased that neither situation proved to be as significant as initially reported.In Kansas, the Atchison County sheriffs office and the local school district declared a lockdown Friday while investigating a threat. The lockdown was quickly lifted, and the sheriffs office said on Facebook, We apologize for the panic this may have caused.Reporting was contributed by Claudio Cabrera, Elizabeth A. Harris, Kirk Johnson, Mitch Smith Nikita Stewart and Daniel Victor.A version of this article appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Across a Jittery U.S.,  Schools Shut Down  To Prevent a Part 2.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
City Kitchen By                     
 DAVID TANIS
 
FEB. 9, 2018
For a special occasion, your best friend, sweetheart or spouse deserves the finest dinner you can produce. For many people, that means the simple luxury of steak and potatoes. Instead of going to a crowded restaurant, you can easily pull off this meal at home — and use the money you save by splurging on an expensive, top-quality cut like rib-eye or tenderloin or strip steak.Of the three choices, I prefer the rib-eye. It makes the most succulent steak, richly marbled and very tasty. (In France, this cut is called côte de boeuf, and considered very special.)Not to dismiss the milder tenderloin, sliced into filets mignon, but to me those are best pan-fried in butter with a lot of pepper. They are delicious, but not as meaty. Strip loin, or New York strip steak, can be quite lean and thus a bit chewy, but some swear by it. I find it makes a good roast beef, cooked whole.But we digress. Assuming youre going for a high-end steak, youll want to stop in a real butcher shop if you can. Or, order from a source you trust. It will cost you, but will still be cheaper than dinner out for two. Rather than buying two pieces for two people, get one large steak, about two inches thick. It will produce juicier, more flavorful meat. Cover it with generous dashes of salt and pepper, a little sliced garlic and some roughly chopped rosemary, then leave it for a while to absorb the seasonings. (Youll remove the garlic before cooking, as it would burn immediately in the hot skillet.)Start the steak in a scorching hot cast-iron pan on the stovetop, to brown one side well. Flip, then proceed by popping the pan in a hot oven to roast until done in the center and the interior reaches 120 degrees, usually 8 to 10 minutes. Let it rest 10 minutes or so before slicing into wide strips, across the grain. The residual heat will get the steaks interior to medium-rare.AdvertisementMy favorite simple potato dish right now is made by boiling the tiny ones called pee-wee (even smaller than baby potatoes) in heavily salted water and tossing them with butter, garlic, parsley and lemon zest. They take but 10 minutes to cook and are fragrant and delicious, with extra potato flavor from the skins. You might substitute your own preferred potato, of course: mashed, baked or otherwise.AdvertisementIm suggesting this for a Valentines Day dinner à deux. (Throughout the year, however, at my house, we just call it Steak Night, and consider it an occasional, no-occasion indulgence.) The fact that its dead easy to make doesnt diminish its appeal, and sometimes it is the perfect solution on a night when youre not inclined to embark on a kitchen project.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Steak and potatoes is great for any last minute celebration and quick to prepare. Just open a great bottle of wine. Its a simple, no-fuss dinner, yet very special.Recipe: Rib-Eye Steak and Potatoes for TwoAnd to Drink …A fine steak calls for an equally fine red wine, ideally with structure and intensity, yet without leaving the impression of fruity sweetness. California cabernet or Bordeaux are excellent choices, especially those wines of the traditional school that have savory depth rather than upfront sweet fruit. But other bottles can be equally good. A great sangiovese wine, like a Chianti Classico or a Brunello di Montalcino, is wonderful with steak. So is a deep, rich syrah, like a Cornas or Hermitage. Honestly, you wont go wrong with just about any red, but if you are investing in a top-flight steak, why not complete the experience with a wine of comparable style and quality? ERIC ASIMOVFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: For a Special Day, or Just a Tasty Indulgence.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
FEB. 7, 2018
Good morning. Craig Claibornes recipe for beef stroganoff (above) is on the menu for dinner tonight. It is a delicious meal when served over buttered noodles with parsley and maybe especially so if you make like some of your fellow Cooking subscribers and add a smidgen of smoked paprika to the sour cream that coats the meat.For dessert, pick up some ice cream, apples and butter and make this no-recipe recipe for dessert: sautéed apple slices in a lot of butter. Dont go too far. Dont let them collapse. Just let them start to soften and get hot in the pan, then hit them with some cinnamon, maybe, or a flash of bourbon, and serve with a scoop of ice cream. Thats living large, on a Wednesday night in America. Soundtrack: Broken Social Scene, Halfway Home.Heading in a very different direction indeed, you might try this Florence Fabricant recipe for baked fish with potatoes, peppers and olives, which she picked up, in classic Fabricant style, from the kitchen of the hotel La Mamounia in Marrakesh. I like that with white rice. But you may prefer couscous.Taking yet another tack, this time toward a meatless meal, you could cook Melissa Clarks recipe for a shredded tofu and shiitake stir-fry. I like that with white rice as well. You could absolutely make it with brown.AdvertisementOther recipes to consider tonight and in coming days: this terrific meatloaf recipe from the late designer Bill Blass. Its comfort food for the 740 Park set. Take a look, as well, at the hummus tehina that Michael Solomonov serves at Zahav in Philadelphia. And consider the chicken tagine that I caught emerging from the kitchens of Boulud Sud, Daniel Bouluds excellent canteen across the street from Lincoln Center.AdvertisementYou should make Alison Romans recipe for ginger-molasses cookies sometime soon. And maybe a sour-cream coffee cake. Are you making your own yogurt yet, as the moms and dads of bohemian Brooklyn used to do back in the 1970s in their Salton machines, and as their children do now in the Instant Pot? Thatd be good to do this week as well!Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Thousands and thousands more recipes to cook in the middle of the week and in the days that will follow are on NYT Cooking. Take out a subscription to our site and apps, if you havent already. Then see what piques your interest. You can also visit us on our Facebook page to see whats arousing ours. (Were on Instagram, too, if youd like just to look at pretty pictures of food.)And, as always, please reach out to us for help if you run into problems with the cooking or the technology. We are at cookingcare@nytimes.com.Now, do read Gustavo Arellano in The New Yorker, on the Syrian baker who is bringing a famous Middle Eastern ice cream to California.Then take a look at CJ Lotz in Garden & Gun, writing about a new king cake for Mardi Gras, this one made of biscuits.And nothing to do with jackfruit or sauté pans, but youll definitely want to read this excellent tale from John Ruddy in The Day, of New London, Conn. Its about the Blizzard of 1978 and how it played out for two young men trying to get home to Noank from their jobs on Fishers Island, 40 years ago this week. Nautical! See you on Friday.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Student Opinion By                     
 SHANNON DOYNE
 
FEB. 5, 2018
Do you use social media? If so, would you ever consider disconnecting from a particular platform you use now, or leaving all your social media feeds entirely? What do you think you would gain or lose?In the Opinion essay I Quit Twitter and It Feels Great, Lindy West writes about quitting Twitter more than a year ago:To be clear, its not brave to quit Twitter, or righteous (Im still on Facebook, which is just a differently shaped moral stockyard), or noteworthy. Quitting Twitter is just a thing that you can do. I mention it only because there was a time when I didnt think it was a thing that I could do, and then I did it, and now my life is better.Im frequently approached by colleagues, usually women, who ask me about quitting Twitter with hushed titillation, as if Ive escaped a cult or broken a particularly seductive taboo. Well, heres what my new life is like: I dont wake up with a pit in my stomach every day, dreading what horrors accrued in my phone overnight. I dont get dragged into protracted, bad-faith arguments with teenage boys about whether poor people deserve medical care, or whether putting nice guys in the friend zone is a hate crime. I dont spend hours every week blocking and reporting trolls and screen-grabbing abuse in case it someday escalates into a credible threat. I no longer feel like my brain is trapped in a centrifuge filled with swastikas and Alex Joness spittle. Time is finite, and now I have more of it.At the same time, I know this conversation is more complicated than that. Ive lost a large platform to self-promote and make professional connections, which isnt something many writers can afford to give up (less established writers and marginalized writers most of all — in a horrid irony, the same writers disproportionately abused on Twitter). I get my news on a slight delay. I seethe at the perception that I ceded any ground to trolls trying to push me out. I will probably never persuade RuPaul to be my friend. Also, I loved Twitter. Twitter is funny and smart and validating and cathartic. It feels, when you are embroiled in it, like the place where everything is happening. (Scoff if you like, but the president of the United States makes major policy announcements there. This is the world now.)Students: Read the entire essay, then tell us:— What are your thoughts on the experiences Ms. West says shes had while using Twitter and after she stopped using her account?— Is Twitter a form of social media that you use regularly? What other platforms do you use? Are there any youd consider quitting? Why?— Would you ever consider giving up all social media for a short time?— What about permanently giving it up?Advertisement— Ms. West mentions that because shes a writer, there is an expectation that she engage with the discourse taking place on social media as well as use social media to network. Do you think your career will require you to maintain a social media presence? How do you feel about that?— She also says she has more time as a result of giving up Twitter. What are your thoughts about that?Advertisement— What do you think would happen if everyone stopped using social media?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NEIL MacFARQUHARFEB. 17, 2018
MOSCOW — Trolling political opponents has become so routine in Russia, such a part of the everyday landscape, that operations are typically performed without much effort to cover any tracks.So when Russian trolling techniques were exported to the United States as part of the effort to influence the 2016 presidential election, it seems to have been done with the same lack of discipline that characterizes the practice in Russia.That devil-may-care attitude helped make possible the identification and indictment of 13 Russians and three Russian companies, with the United States accusing them of trying to subvert the election, including efforts to bolster the candidacy of Donald J. Trump and undercut the campaign of his opponent, Hillary Clinton.Just because the operation was thinly veiled, however, does not mean that the Russian trolling — creating provocative online posts about immigration, religion and race to try to sway voters — lacked high-level support.AdvertisementIndeed, ever since the first reports surfaced in 2014 about the existence of a troll farm called the Internet Research Agency, there have been questions about its Kremlin ties.AdvertisementThe United States indictment is among the clearest documents yet in stating outright that Yevgeny V. Prigozhin, a businessman grown fabulously wealthy off government contracts, controls the agency despite denials from him and the Kremlin. He has long been linked to President Vladimir V. Putin, not least through his nickname, Putins cook, inspired by his catering company, which mushroomed from hosting state banquets to feeding much of the military.Because it targets someone pretty close to the Kremlin, it really points at the Kremlin, said Konstantin von Eggert, a veteran journalist and political analyst, referring to the indictment. Such things are very tightly controlled in Russia. You cannot launch your own private war against the United States.Others noted, however, that degrees of control vary. There is a saying in Russian that the Kremlin has many towers, meaning that various bureaucratic cabals and government agencies hold differing and sometimes competing interests.The Kremlin; the F.S.B., the main security service; and the S.V.R., or the foreign intelligence service, all have interests overseas, which complicates singling out the troll farms ultimate godfather.Also, this kind of operation is designed for deniability, with the overall mandate endorsed by the government but probably not the day-to-day operations.People do not go ask permission from Putin: Vladimir Vladimirovich, can we go hack the servers of the Democratic Party? Its not like that, said Anton Merkurov, an internet analyst. Putin never really uses the internet, so he doesnt understand how it works.Those named in the indictment have proved difficult for reporters to reach, with their cellphones often shut off and no response to messages left for them on social media.AdvertisementThe overall aim of the Russian government — be it through trolling, hacking or disinformation — was to spread confusion and unease about government institutions in the West and to shore up popular support at home. The actual techniques were unlikely to be laid out in a paper trail, Mr. Merkurov noted.The fact that the efforts of the troll farm described in the indictment — the fake campaign protests in Florida or New York; the myriad accounts mimicking Americans set up on Twitter and Facebook; the trips to the United States to organize it all — were so easy to trace back to the Internet Research Agency that it probably underscores that the intelligence services were not involved in running the organization.The government and its proxies had been using bots and trolls for so long against its internal critics that it probably did not consider that shifting the operations overseas demanded a significantly different approach, said Vladimir Frolov, a foreign affairs analyst.It was very ad hoc, very amateurish, he said. They did not consider this to be a sensitive operation. They used easily traceable methods.A lot of the information in the 37-page indictment had appeared previously in Russia, especially in a nearly 5,000-word article in RBC magazine last November. Quoting unidentified current and former employees, the articles details ranged from the names of key employees, to their tasks, to their working methods.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Analysts noted that the relatively easily tracked efforts by the Internet Research Agency are very different from, for example, the American investigation into what could be a strategically more threatening case: whether Kaspersky Labs gave a back door entry to Russian intelligence services into United States government computers running its software. Kaspersky Labs strenuously denies any such collusion.On Thursday the White House also blamed Russia for the calamitous NotPetya cyber attack last year, echoing the British government in condemning Moscow for unleashing a virus that shuttered some of Ukraines infrastructure and damaged computers globally. Russia denied any link.Those operations involved highly sophisticated penetration of cybernetworks, the analysts noted, whereas the troll farm work is akin to graffiti — writing nasty messages on Twitter and Facebook.If there was any substantial Russian influence in the election, it was far more likely from the information hacked from the Democratic Party headquarters that was leaked to the press, Mr. Frolov said.AdvertisementIn Russia, all kinds of dirt about opposition figures turns up online, or even on state television channels, ranging from documentaries that set out to prove these politicians are fifth columnists on the payroll of the State Department to videos from hidden hotel room cameras that show them engaging in extramarital sex.So for many Russians, the main surprise after the United States indicted the most notorious troll farm was that the work might be considered criminal.Lyudmila Savchuk, an internet activist who went undercover as an employee at the Internet Research Agency in St. Petersburg, said that there should be thousands of names in the indictment, not just 13 top managers.We are in a situation now where these people are not even criticized by society, much less punished legally, Ms. Savchuk said in a telephone interview. No troll or propagandist ever bears any responsibility for what they write in Russia, she said.The Internet Research Agency was initially formed in 2013 to attack members of the political opposition, like Aleksei A. Navalny, Mr. Putins most outspoken critic. The basic task of the trolls was to flood social media with articles and comments that painted Russia under Mr. Putin as a stable, comfortable country in contrast to the chaos and moral corruption of the West, according to two former trolls who worked there. From domestic matters it moved on to attacking Ukraine and eventually the West.In Russia, one discussion about the ramifications of the indictment was the extent to which it might actually help the Kremlin. The charges laid out in the indictment roughly correspond with Mr. Putins position that perhaps rogue patriots are responsible not only for the trolling, but also for the email hacking and other cyberattacks connected to the U.S. election.The fact that there were no senior government officials named probably helps Russia, said Mr. Frolov, because that echoed statements from Mr. Putin last summer that any election meddling was the work of eager Russian civilians rather than government agents.The first impulse is to dismiss it as inconsequential, something that makes clear that there is no evidence of Russian state involvement in what Mueller describes as an interference operation, Mr. Frolov said, referring to Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel who brought the indictment. Assuming it ends up only with those pranksters, that gives Moscow room to maneuver, the ability to distance themselves from this.AdvertisementOn Saturday, Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, dismissed the indictment as just blabber.I have no response. We see these statements and indictments multiplying, Mr. Lavrov said at an international security conference in Munich, Germany.The official reaction basically mocked the idea that 13 people could somehow muster a negative impact on American democracy. Muellers list: Russian superagents are capable of anything read one sarcastic headline on a television website.Follow Neil MacFarquhar on Twitter: @NeilMacFarquharOleg Matsnev and Sophia Kishkovsky contributed reporting from Moscow, Ivan Nechepurenko from St Petersburg and Steven Erlanger from Munich.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Russian Trolls Were Sloppy, but U.S. Indictment Still Points at the Kremlin.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NATASHA SINGERFEB. 12, 2018
PALO ALTO, Calif. — The medical profession has an ethic: First, do no harm.Silicon Valley has an ethos: Build it first and ask for forgiveness later.Now, in the wake of fake news and other troubles at tech companies, universities that helped produce some of Silicon Valleys top technologists are hustling to bring a more medicine-like morality to computer science.This semester, Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are jointly offering a new course on the ethics and regulation of artificial intelligence. The University of Texas at Austin just introduced a course titled Ethical Foundations of Computer Science — with the idea of eventually requiring it for all computer science majors.And at Stanford University, the academic heart of the industry, three professors and a research fellow are developing a computer science ethics course for next year. They hope several hundred students will enroll.AdvertisementThe idea is to train the next generation of technologists and policymakers to consider the ramifications of innovations — like autonomous weapons or self-driving cars — before those products go on sale.AdvertisementIts about finding or identifying issues that we know in the next two, three, five, 10 years, the students who graduate from here are going to have to grapple with, said Mehran Sahami, a popular computer science professor at Stanford who is helping to develop the course. He is renowned on campus for bringing Mark Zuckerberg to class.Technology is not neutral, said Professor Sahami, who formerly worked at Google as a senior research scientist. The choices that get made in building technology then have social ramifications.The courses are emerging at a moment when big tech companies have been struggling to handle the side effects — fake news on Facebook, fake followers on Twitter, lewd childrens videos on YouTube — of the industrys build-it-first mind-set. They amount to an open challenge to a common Silicon Valley attitude that has generally dismissed ethics as a hindrance.We need to at least teach people that theres a dark side to the idea that you should move fast and break things, said Laura Norén, a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Data Science at New York University who began teaching a new data science ethics course this semester. You can patch the software, but you cant patch a person if you, you know, damage someones reputation.Computer science programs are required to make sure students have an understanding of ethical issues related to computing in order to be accredited by ABET, a global accreditation group for university science and engineering programs. Some computer science departments have folded the topic into a broader class, and others have stand-alone courses.But until recently, ethics did not seem relevant to many students.Compared to transportation or doctors, your daily interaction with physical harm or death or pain is a lot less if you are writing software for apps, said Joi Ito, director of the M.I.T. Media Lab.One reason that universities are pushing tech ethics now is the popularization of powerful tools like machine learning — computer algorithms that can autonomously learn tasks by analyzing large amounts of data. Because such tools could ultimately alter human society, universities are rushing to help students understand the potential consequences, said Mr. Ito, who is co-teaching the Harvard-M.I.T. ethics course.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As we start to see things, like autonomous vehicles, that clearly have the ability to save people but also cause harm, I think that people are scrambling to build a system of ethics, he said. (Mr. Ito is a director of The New York Times Company.)AdvertisementLast fall, Cornell University introduced a data science course where students learned to deal with ethical challenges — such as biased data sets that include too few lower-income households to be representative of the general population. Students also debated the use of algorithms to help automate life-changing decisions like hiring or college admissions.It was really focused on trying to help them understand what in their everyday practice as a data scientist they are likely to confront, and to help them think through those challenges more systematically, said Solon Barocas, an assistant professor in information science who taught the course.In another Cornell course, Karen Levy, also an assistant professor in information science, is teaching her students to focus more on the ethics of tech companies.A lot of ethically charged decision-making has to do with the choices a company makes: what products they choose to develop, what policies they adopt around user data, Professor Levy said. If data science ethics training focuses entirely on the individual responsibility of the data scientist, it risks overlooking the role of the broader enterprise.The Harvard-M.I.T. course, which has 30 students, focuses on the ethical, policy and legal implications of artificial intelligence. It was spurred and financed in part by a new artificial intelligence ethics research fund whose donors include Reid Hoffman, a co-founder of LinkedIn, and the Omidyar Network, the philanthropic investment firm of Pierre Omidyar, the eBay founder.The curriculum also covers the spread of algorithmic risk scores that use data — like whether a person was ever suspended from school, or how many of his or her friends have arrest records — to forecast whether someone is likely to commit a crime. Mr. Ito said he hoped the course would spur students to ask basic ethical questions like: Is the technology fair? How do you make sure that the data is not biased? Should machines be judging humans?Some universities offer such programs in their information science, law or philosophy departments. At Stanford, the computer science department will offer the new ethics course, tentatively titled Ethics, Public Policy and Computer Science.The expectations for the course are running high in part because of Professor Sahamis popularity on campus. About 1,500 students take his introductory computer science course every year.The new ethics course covers topics like artificial intelligence and autonomous machines; privacy and civil rights; and platforms like Facebook. Rob Reich, a Stanford political science professor who is helping to develop the course, said students would be asked to consider those topics from the point of view of software engineers, product designers and policymakers. Students will also be assigned to translate ideal solutions into computer code.AdvertisementStanford absolutely has a responsibility to play a leadership role in integrating these perspectives, but so does Carnegie Mellon and Caltech and Berkeley and M.I.T., said Jeremy Weinstein, a Stanford political science professor and co-developer of the ethics course. The set of institutions that are generating the next generation of leaders in the technology sector have all got to get on this train.A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: On Campus, Computer Science Departments Find a Blind Spot: Ethics.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KATHERINE ROSMANFEB. 12, 2018
LOS ANGELES — Against the backdrop of a green screen in a studio space, Nico Santos, a star of the sitcom Superstore, was performing an SMH.To translate for those unfamiliar with abbreviations popular on internet platforms, this means the actor was shaking his head, implying a judgment of I truly cannot believe how stupid people are.He did an SMH while looking at the camera, then again with his eyes closed and his lips pursed in a disappointed sideways smirk. People are stupid in many different ways, and so too must be the reaction shot Mr. Santos was filming for Giphy, the company that is the best-known purveyor of GIFs, the seconds-long soundless video clips that give people a shorthand to express an emotion or reaction through their phones or computers. Most GIFs are pulled from movies, television shows and other media events. But here at Giphy Studios, the emphasis is on creating original content.How about a shake my head into a face palm, said Wallis Millar-Blanchaer, one of the studios associate producer and director.AdvertisementMr. Santos, who will appear in the coming film Crazy Rich Asians, removed his glasses and delivered the two-tiered SMH reaction. Then he delivered a Girl, no. This was followed by a Yasss, queen, and then a EWWW/just threw up in my mouth.AdvertisementLike emojis, GIFs have become an oft-used replacement for words in texts and messaging apps. This gives these video snippets a lot of currency as young people increasingly favor private messaging over posting publicly on social media. A 2016 study by BI Intelligence reported that the number of global active users on four top messaging services (WhatsApp, Messenger, WeChat and Viber) was exceeding those on the Big Four social networks (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn).It also is a new marker of that increasingly atomized American achievement: fame. You know youve made it when youre a GIF, Mr. Santos said.GIFs (pronounced like gifts without the T) are now so ubiquitous that even non-techies in their 40s recognize them when shown on a phone. (Oh those! they will say. Yes, Ive see them on Facebook.) Some 300 million Giphy daily users are sharing 2.5 billion GIFs per day through Twitter, Tinder, text messages, Slack, Gmail and, as of recently, in Instagram stories, said Brad Zeff, the chief content officer of Giphy.Giphy Studios thinks it can help old-school companies like H &R Block break into private messaging with branded GIF campaigns. For a campaign for HP, a spinoff of Hewlett-Packard, Giphy brought in Matt Cutshall, a star on Instagram, and shot him holding an HP device and acting silly.Absolut Vodka, known since the 1980s for its distinctive photography in advertising, has also succumbed, commissioning GIFs of the fruits that flavor its booze, twisting temptingly.In some cases, Giphy Studios asks such companies to help cover production costs; for other brands, it offers the service for free. GIFs featuring actors, musicians and other talent are also made for free, with Giphy staff members assessing pop-cultural relevance in deciding who should get such star treatment.Giphy, which was founded in 2013 and has raised about $150 million from venture capitalists, is still pre-revenue, to use start-up parlance. We dont want to turn revenue on in earnest prematurely, Mr. Zeff said.Part of its strategy is to make this Los Angeles studio a hub for actors, musicians and social-media influencers on promotional tours, where they will film reaction shots based on terms that Giphy users often plug into search boxes. The dissemination, it is hoped, will make them GIF-amous.AdvertisementI really want it to be a stop on a press tour, said Samantha Scharff, Giphy Studios C.E.O., offering a tour of the space. You go to Kimmel. You go to Giphy. There is a miniature golf course that winds through the office and most of the conference and meeting tables double as Ping-Pong tables, as is de rigueur at start-ups. Pillows on couches are stitched with LMAO and OMG. There are a few different filming rooms, including one with a brick wall that the staff thinks of as its New York stage.And upstairs is a steep slide that visitors are encouraged to try. You never know where GIFs might happen. We wanted people to come here and hang out and make content, said Ms. Scharff, whose career path has tracked the decreasing attention span of viewers (from Saturday Night Live, to The Colbert Report, to producing YouTube videos, to Giphy).The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It is a risky strategy; part of the appeal of GIFs is that they are organically referential to collective nostalgia for previous pop-culture touchstones — not choreographed and overtly promotional. She and Mr. Zeff, however, have high hopes that they can change the form from a repurposed clip of existing content into an entertainment medium in its own right. We want to be the MTV of the messaging generation, he said.In the summer, Martellus Bennett, then a tight end for the Green Bay Packers, came to check out Giphy Studios and toss ideas around with Mr. Zeff. Giphy then decided to send staff members to Green Bay, Wis., to GIF-ify Mr. Bennett and teammates including Aaron Rodgers as they pantomimed popular hashtagged gestures (#thumbsup, #letsgo and #middle finger). The clips racked up 150 million views in 48 hours, according to Mr. Zeff.This December day at Giphy Studios was an unusually busy one, with Gwen Stefani stopping by at the last minute to film holiday-themed GIFs, and three other scheduled shoots: with Mr. Santos, a band called Portugal. The Man, and the actress Amber Stevens West.Against another green screen, Ms. West filmed tarot-card-theme GIFs, under the direction of Ms. Millar-Blanchaer and Michael Bruno, an associate producer and director at Giphy Studios. Best known for her role in the 2014 film 22 Jump Street, Ms. West stood behind a white rectangular cutout that was suspended from a rod. She wore a blue cape and then a white robe over her jeans and T-shirt. This was the first time Giphy had used a costume for a shoot.How about a You are awesome? Ms. Millar-Blanchaer said. Then: Lets do a You Got This!AdvertisementMs. West posed gamely and emoted as directed.Its kind of like an acting exercise, she said.For nonactors, preening in front of a camera with directors calling out emotions to convey merely with facial expressions and gestures can be cringe inducing.This was the case with Portugal. The Man, who are originally from Wasilla, Alaska, and who won a 2018 Grammy for best pop duo/group performance for Feel It Still. They arrived at Giphy Studios toward the end of the day and sat down with the production staff to get organized.The idea was to make GIFs connecting to internet holidays, which tend to be popular among Giphy users — in this case National Doughnut Day, Pizza Day, Beer Day, Video Game Day/Gaming Day and Earth Day.Mr. Bruno asked if anyone would object to these. We have no reservations or moral compass whatsoever, one of the bandmates said. Well do anything. The group laughed. That was before they knew theyd be asked to juggle doughnuts and pose next to slices of pizza.In the studio, each of the four musicians took his turn and was a good sport, hamming it up for the camera as producers shouted hashtags.Zach Carothers, the bassist, went first, and seemed relieved when he was done posing with doughnuts placed over each finger like rings. He sat down in the back of the studio and shrugged. Our record label is always looking for interesting ways to shovel us into all sorts of crap, he said. I dont know if youve heard, but these GIF things are pretty popular on the interwebs.A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: At Six Seconds Per Spot, Fame Really Is Fleeting.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Australia Fare By                     
BESHA RODELL

FEB. 15, 2018

CreditAsanka Brendon Ratnayake for The New York Times        HOBART, Tasmania — Once a dependable bastion of this countrys social life, the ubiquitous Australian pub is now vulnerable to a slew of modern ailments. Many rural, suburban and blue-collar pubs have been inundated with gambling machines — known here as pokies — turning what were vibrant social hubs into blinking, buzzing low-rent casinos that smell of cheap beer and desperation. (To be fair, they always smelled of cheap beer; it was just more charming without the pokies.)At the same time, urban pubs are being gentrified at an alarming rate: Charcuterie plates replace counter meals of steak and chips, loud music drowns out the boisterous chatter of regulars, spendy craft beers eclipse dependable brews.These changes are driven by culture and economics, factors that vary widely depending on location and clientele. But the common thread is a need to diversify revenue, as well as the sad truth that cheap drinks and cheap food alone will often no longer support these hulking old buildings and the people who work in them.The New Sydney Hotel in the Tasmanian capital, Hobart, has found an immensely lovable middle path. Opened in 1835, the building spent a few years as a private residence, and also had a short stint as a brothel around the end of the 19th century. But for most of its history it has been one of the central business districts most popular pubs.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The last renovation happened a decade ago, leaving the interior with wood-paneled walls covered in various memorabilia: old photos, vintage advertisements, license plates, taxidermied animals (a kookaburra, a raven, a ringtail possum). In the winter, bartenders pull double duty slinging drinks and stoking the leaping flames in the huge brick fireplace.AdvertisementAlistair Derham, the owner, has been proactive in balancing tradition with the needs of a modern urban clientele. There are no televisions, but there are USB outlets under the bar to charge your phone. There are cheap beers, and there are craft beers. The back bar holds some truly exciting local whiskeys and gins. And in terms of food, the pub classics are all available, done very well with little to no gourmet pretensions.AdvertisementYou can also order a tasting menu. Part of that menu will be cooked at your table by a waiter brandishing a blowtorch. A large portion of the New Sydneys food offerings can be credited to the creative impulses of the chef, Klee Clemens. Mr. Clemens was born and raised in Tasmania, but he spent time in the kitchens of Melbourne, most notably that of Vue De Monde, one of the countrys most established fine-dining restaurants. Mr. Clemens has been at the New Sydney for a decade now, and his kitchen manages to achieve remarkably varied aims.Here is a chicken Parma, the classic Australian pub meal that puts a breaded, fried chicken cutlet under a slice of ham, a layer of red sauce and melted cheese, and over a pile of fries. The sauce is house-made, with a hint of smokiness; the cheese is blistered perfectly. Theres no tinkering with the form, no cleverness. It is just a very good Parma.But maybe youre not in the mood for a Parma or a pub steak (though the porterhouse here is wonderful). Perhaps, instead, you have a hankering for rare wallaby leg with mustard cream and capers. The New Sydney can help you there as well.The easiest way to gauge the breadth of Mr. Clemenss ambitions is to order the $55 six-course tasting menu, but his more modern efforts are available à la carte as well. Southern Tasmanian calamari comes crisped over spiced carrots, some of which have been roasted to a caramelized sear, others turned into a sweet purée. Pickled seaweed salad and furikake take the dish in a somewhat kaleidoscopic direction, in terms of both texture and flavor.Mr. Clemens takes the classic Christmas ham and turns it on its head, serving pork croquettes with charred pineapple, then ramping up the tropical element by adding coconut and chile. The blowtorch comes into play with a starter of Wagyu, which is cut thin and dramatically scorched at the table by your waiter. It is not the only silly but fun cooking method. Sometimes a hot rock is provided, with elaborate instructions about how to cook bits of seafood or meat. Sometimes youre given a warm salt rock, which seasons and cooks simultaneously.There are times when Mr. Clemenss cooking runs slightly askew, when the copious cross-cultural influences muddy the experience. But given the location and price and sheer fun of it all, the main takeaway of this food is joy.If nothing else, you should consider patronizing the New Sydney for the people-watching. The customers are as varied and fascinating as the cacophony of memorabilia that adorns its wood-paneled walls.AdvertisementOn a recent midweek evening, a family with two young children tucked into an overwhelming platter of roasted lamb, served with pita bread and salad and dips, like a giant deconstructed souvlaki. Nearby, a group of drinkers in their early 20s gossiped about their favorite new cookbooks, remarking on the chefs and recipes the way my friends and I used to discuss musicians and songs. A biker couple nestled into the comfy corner nook near the front windows. At the bar, a few weather-worn older dudes sat in the time-honored pub stance: elbows out, one hand on a cold beer, talking in low, friendly voices.Everyone fits right in at the New Sydney, and it gives me hope for the future of the great Australian pub. Which is saying something, because that future is far from certain.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Timess Australia bureau would love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.87 Bathurst StreetHobart03 6234 4516websiteRecommended Dishes Chicken Parma, porterhouse steak, potted eel, southern Tasmanian calamari, roasted duck, glazed Christmas ham, slow-cooked lamb shoulder.Price $$ (moderate)Open Monday to Saturday for lunch and dinner; Sundays and public holidays for dinner only.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access Dining room, bar and bathrooms are wheelchair accessible; there is no handrail in the bathroom.
                This information was last updated: Feb. 15, 2018 Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
City Kitchen By                     
 DAVID TANIS
 
FEB. 2, 2018
When the question is whats for dinner? the Italian word calamari makes a nicer-sounding answer than squid. And squid for supper sounds better than the scientific cephalopod, the class of seafood to which it belongs.But squid (and its thicker-fleshed cousins, cuttlefish), whether deep-fried, stir-fried, roasted or braised, is eaten all over the world, in many attractive guises.It can be bright and fresh, sautéed with garlic, parsley and lemon. Cooked in a rich sauce containing jet-black ink, squid finds a perfect, deeply flavored home in risotto, pasta and paella. Whole squid stuffed with bread crumbs and herbs is extremely popular across the Mediterranean. Crisp Chinese salt and pepper squid is addictive, with a whisper of five-spice powder. Ill never forget a dried squid snack I ordered from a street food vendor in Thailand; it was toasted briefly over coals, then flattened to the thickness of a potato chip and served with a spicy dipping sauce.In Spain, you can buy a paper cone full of glorious flash-fried cuttlefish rings and the tiny squid known as chipirones for just a few euros. But youll also find many types of long-simmered squid stew there, many of which contain chorizo and garbanzo beans and, more often than not, a few clams, too.AdvertisementFor tender results, the rule is, cook it high and fast (think frying or sautéing) or low and slow, just as with many tougher, inexpensive cuts of meat. (Squid is also one of the cheapest items in most fish markets.)Once, in a restaurant north of Barcelona, I had a dish of long-cooked squid that didnt seem Spanish at all. It didnt even seem like seafood. I had ordered it without paying much attention to the menu description. When it appeared, it looked rather like braised veal, served in a brown gravylike sauce, surrounded by peas, carrots and potatoes. This squid stew tasted remarkably like pot roast, in the best possible way. It was savory and satisfying and very meatlike. I fantasized about having mashed potatoes to accompany it.The other day, when I found large squid at the fish market, that dish from long ago immediately came to mind, and I attempted to recreate it. It is an easy stew to put together in a heavy soup pot with just an onion, a thyme sprig, some white wine and chicken broth. A few carrots and turnips, some chopped leek and a handful of (frozen) peas completed the picture. The squid was fork tender in 30 minutes, and the broth had become divinely complex. Slurping a large bowlful, I felt as if I were in the company of an old friend: comforted, reassured, and yet not at all bored.AdvertisementRecipe: Wine-Braised Calamari With VegetablesFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Squid, Braised Not Fried, Makes for a Savory Stew.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Australia Fare By                     
BESHA RODELL

FEB. 15, 2018

CreditAsanka Brendon Ratnayake for The New York Times        HOBART, Tasmania — Once a dependable bastion of this countrys social life, the ubiquitous Australian pub is now vulnerable to a slew of modern ailments. Many rural, suburban and blue-collar pubs have been inundated with gambling machines — known here as pokies — turning what were vibrant social hubs into blinking, buzzing low-rent casinos that smell of cheap beer and desperation. (To be fair, they always smelled of cheap beer; it was just more charming without the pokies.)At the same time, urban pubs are being gentrified at an alarming rate: Charcuterie plates replace counter meals of steak and chips, loud music drowns out the boisterous chatter of regulars, spendy craft beers eclipse dependable brews.These changes are driven by culture and economics, factors that vary widely depending on location and clientele. But the common thread is a need to diversify revenue, as well as the sad truth that cheap drinks and cheap food alone will often no longer support these hulking old buildings and the people who work in them.The New Sydney Hotel in the Tasmanian capital, Hobart, has found an immensely lovable middle path. Opened in 1835, the building spent a few years as a private residence, and also had a short stint as a brothel around the end of the 19th century. But for most of its history it has been one of the central business districts most popular pubs.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The last renovation happened a decade ago, leaving the interior with wood-paneled walls covered in various memorabilia: old photos, vintage advertisements, license plates, taxidermied animals (a kookaburra, a raven, a ringtail possum). In the winter, bartenders pull double duty slinging drinks and stoking the leaping flames in the huge brick fireplace.AdvertisementAlistair Derham, the owner, has been proactive in balancing tradition with the needs of a modern urban clientele. There are no televisions, but there are USB outlets under the bar to charge your phone. There are cheap beers, and there are craft beers. The back bar holds some truly exciting local whiskeys and gins. And in terms of food, the pub classics are all available, done very well with little to no gourmet pretensions.AdvertisementYou can also order a tasting menu. Part of that menu will be cooked at your table by a waiter brandishing a blowtorch. A large portion of the New Sydneys food offerings can be credited to the creative impulses of the chef, Klee Clemens. Mr. Clemens was born and raised in Tasmania, but he spent time in the kitchens of Melbourne, most notably that of Vue De Monde, one of the countrys most established fine-dining restaurants. Mr. Clemens has been at the New Sydney for a decade now, and his kitchen manages to achieve remarkably varied aims.Here is a chicken Parma, the classic Australian pub meal that puts a breaded, fried chicken cutlet under a slice of ham, a layer of red sauce and melted cheese, and over a pile of fries. The sauce is house-made, with a hint of smokiness; the cheese is blistered perfectly. Theres no tinkering with the form, no cleverness. It is just a very good Parma.But maybe youre not in the mood for a Parma or a pub steak (though the porterhouse here is wonderful). Perhaps, instead, you have a hankering for rare wallaby leg with mustard cream and capers. The New Sydney can help you there as well.The easiest way to gauge the breadth of Mr. Clemenss ambitions is to order the $55 six-course tasting menu, but his more modern efforts are available à la carte as well. Southern Tasmanian calamari comes crisped over spiced carrots, some of which have been roasted to a caramelized sear, others turned into a sweet purée. Pickled seaweed salad and furikake take the dish in a somewhat kaleidoscopic direction, in terms of both texture and flavor.Mr. Clemens takes the classic Christmas ham and turns it on its head, serving pork croquettes with charred pineapple, then ramping up the tropical element by adding coconut and chile. The blowtorch comes into play with a starter of Wagyu, which is cut thin and dramatically scorched at the table by your waiter. It is not the only silly but fun cooking method. Sometimes a hot rock is provided, with elaborate instructions about how to cook bits of seafood or meat. Sometimes youre given a warm salt rock, which seasons and cooks simultaneously.There are times when Mr. Clemenss cooking runs slightly askew, when the copious cross-cultural influences muddy the experience. But given the location and price and sheer fun of it all, the main takeaway of this food is joy.If nothing else, you should consider patronizing the New Sydney for the people-watching. The customers are as varied and fascinating as the cacophony of memorabilia that adorns its wood-paneled walls.AdvertisementOn a recent midweek evening, a family with two young children tucked into an overwhelming platter of roasted lamb, served with pita bread and salad and dips, like a giant deconstructed souvlaki. Nearby, a group of drinkers in their early 20s gossiped about their favorite new cookbooks, remarking on the chefs and recipes the way my friends and I used to discuss musicians and songs. A biker couple nestled into the comfy corner nook near the front windows. At the bar, a few weather-worn older dudes sat in the time-honored pub stance: elbows out, one hand on a cold beer, talking in low, friendly voices.Everyone fits right in at the New Sydney, and it gives me hope for the future of the great Australian pub. Which is saying something, because that future is far from certain.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Timess Australia bureau would love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.87 Bathurst StreetHobart03 6234 4516websiteRecommended Dishes Chicken Parma, porterhouse steak, potted eel, southern Tasmanian calamari, roasted duck, glazed Christmas ham, slow-cooked lamb shoulder.Price $$ (moderate)Open Monday to Saturday for lunch and dinner; Sundays and public holidays for dinner only.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access Dining room, bar and bathrooms are wheelchair accessible; there is no handrail in the bathroom.
                This information was last updated: Feb. 15, 2018 Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
City Kitchen By                     
 DAVID TANIS
 
FEB. 2, 2018
When the question is whats for dinner? the Italian word calamari makes a nicer-sounding answer than squid. And squid for supper sounds better than the scientific cephalopod, the class of seafood to which it belongs.But squid (and its thicker-fleshed cousins, cuttlefish), whether deep-fried, stir-fried, roasted or braised, is eaten all over the world, in many attractive guises.It can be bright and fresh, sautéed with garlic, parsley and lemon. Cooked in a rich sauce containing jet-black ink, squid finds a perfect, deeply flavored home in risotto, pasta and paella. Whole squid stuffed with bread crumbs and herbs is extremely popular across the Mediterranean. Crisp Chinese salt and pepper squid is addictive, with a whisper of five-spice powder. Ill never forget a dried squid snack I ordered from a street food vendor in Thailand; it was toasted briefly over coals, then flattened to the thickness of a potato chip and served with a spicy dipping sauce.In Spain, you can buy a paper cone full of glorious flash-fried cuttlefish rings and the tiny squid known as chipirones for just a few euros. But youll also find many types of long-simmered squid stew there, many of which contain chorizo and garbanzo beans and, more often than not, a few clams, too.AdvertisementFor tender results, the rule is, cook it high and fast (think frying or sautéing) or low and slow, just as with many tougher, inexpensive cuts of meat. (Squid is also one of the cheapest items in most fish markets.)Once, in a restaurant north of Barcelona, I had a dish of long-cooked squid that didnt seem Spanish at all. It didnt even seem like seafood. I had ordered it without paying much attention to the menu description. When it appeared, it looked rather like braised veal, served in a brown gravylike sauce, surrounded by peas, carrots and potatoes. This squid stew tasted remarkably like pot roast, in the best possible way. It was savory and satisfying and very meatlike. I fantasized about having mashed potatoes to accompany it.The other day, when I found large squid at the fish market, that dish from long ago immediately came to mind, and I attempted to recreate it. It is an easy stew to put together in a heavy soup pot with just an onion, a thyme sprig, some white wine and chicken broth. A few carrots and turnips, some chopped leek and a handful of (frozen) peas completed the picture. The squid was fork tender in 30 minutes, and the broth had become divinely complex. Slurping a large bowlful, I felt as if I were in the company of an old friend: comforted, reassured, and yet not at all bored.AdvertisementRecipe: Wine-Braised Calamari With VegetablesFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Squid, Braised Not Fried, Makes for a Savory Stew.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
A Good Appetite By                     
 MELISSA CLARK
 
FEB. 23, 2018
Once upon a time, way back in the annals of home cooking, there was an era before sheet-pan suppers.In that dark age, even well-equipped kitchens did not have so much as a single professional sheet pan, let alone the two or three deemed indispensable today.Sure, there were deep-sided roasting pans, cookie sheets, and narrow, thin-gauge jellyroll pans — all perfect for their designated purposes.But none has the same functionality and convenience as the humble, heavy-duty, 13-by-18-inch rimmed sheet pan. Not only can you use it to cook an entire meal for four in your oven all at once, it can also help you heat up a dozen bagels simultaneously. It has enough room to cradle your bo ssam or Thanksgiving turkey, and, in a pinch, it can double as a cookie sheet.However, as useful as regular sheet pans are, their capaciousness can be unwieldy when youre dealing with just a halved acorn squash or that quartet of trout fillets youre planning for dinner tonight. Even worse, sheet pans can also be too big to fit into the dishwasher, especially if youve used more than one.AdvertisementAnd this is why Ive made room for yet one more tool in my already overstuffed kitchen cabinets. For home cooks everywhere, its time to get acquainted with the adorable and versatile quarter-sheet pan.Measuring approximately 9 by 12 inches, its the helpful little sibling of your standard-size sheet pans.AdvertisementI can fit four in my oven all at once, which makes them highly flexible when you want to cook several things at the same time. Then I can toss them into the dishwasher, where they scarcely take up more room than my plates.For example, what if you wanted to cook up a wintry dish of paprika-rubbed chicken legs, potatoes and turnips in the oven all at the same time? If you arranged all those ingredients together on one large pan, youd be hard pressed to get the timing just right so the vegetables and chicken all come out evenly cooked and gorgeously caramelized.Separating the chicken and vegetables onto two small pans, however, gives you a lot more control. You can remove each pan from the oven exactly when its contents are perfectly done, without worrying about over- or undercooking.Here, it means pulling out the chicken and letting it rest while cranking up the oven to crisp the potatoes and turnips. Youll have juicy chicken, crunchy potatoes, and a lot less stress getting them there.The same logic can be applied to a sheet-pan supper of sausage Parmesan and garlicky broccoli. Using two pans prevents the sausage juices and tomato sauce from seeping all over the broccoli, making it soggy.Or, in the case of cumin-rubbed pork chops with brussels sprouts and crispy sage leaves, while the ingredients would all taste great cooked together on one large sheet pan — the rendering pork fat mingling gorgeously with the sprouts and sage — it would automatically make the vegetables unfit for any vegetarians at your table. And keeping the meat away from the vegetables encourages the porky edges to crisp, which is always a good thing in a chop.AdvertisementIf you can find the space to store a few of these quarter-sheet pans (maybe stacked inside your larger sheet pans), buying them isnt at all expensive. They cost less than $10 each. Id suggest starting with two, and if you find yourself reaching for them often, you can always pick up a couple more.Whether you use big pans or small, once you immerse yourself in the tasty, convenient world of sheet-pan suppers, you wont want to stop.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Recipes: Roasted Paprika Chicken With Potatoes and Turnips | Sausage Parmesan With Garlicky Broccoli | Cumin-Roasted Pork Chops and Brussels SproutsAnd to drink...To nobodys surprise, sausage parmesan with garlicky broccoli, with its cooked tomato sauce, sausages and cheese, is a natural with red wine, particularly one with lively acidity. Sangiovese is the obvious choice, especially the less expensive wines of Chianti and Montalcino. Why less expensive? Those are the wines that are least likely to taste oaky, a quality that would clash with this dish. Look for Chianti Rufina, Chianti Classico and Rosso di Montalcino. Other good options include Montepulciano dAbruzzo and Etna Rossos. If you would prefer a white, look for a fresh, vibrant wine, likewise not influenced by oak. Options include Orvieto from Umbria, verdicchios and perhaps Soaves and Etna Biancos. Want something bubbly? Try a good Lambrusco from Emilia-Romagna. ERIC ASIMOVFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Transform Your Weeknight Cooking.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By IAN AUSTENFEB. 9, 2018
BATTLEFORD, Saskatchewan — Prime Minister Justin Trudeaus push for reconciliation of Canadas troubled history with its Indigenous people particularly resonates here in the town of Battleford, in the central part of Saskatchewan Province.A pass system, similar to South Africas under apartheid, once required Indigenous people to get a government officials written permission to step off their reserves. A public hanging in 1885 of six Cree and two Assiniboine men on murder charges that have since been questioned remains the largest mass execution in Canadas history.And now there is the verdict in the Gerald Stanley trial.Mr. Stanley, a local farmer, had been charged with second-degree murder in the death of Colten Boushie, a 22-year-old Cree man from the nearby Red Pheasant Cree Nation.In August 2016, Mr. Boushie and four other Indigenous people drove onto Mr. Stanleys property. Mr. Stanley, 56, testified at trial that he believed their goal was robbery, which he and his son tried to prevent.AdvertisementIn what the farmer called an unintended accident, Mr. Boushie was killed by a bullet to the back of his head that came from a semiautomatic handgun Mr. Stanley fired during a confrontation with the group.On Friday night, after a week of testimony and a day and half of deliberations, a jury found Mr. Stanley not guilty, setting off cries of anguish from Mr. Boushies relatives and supporters.AdvertisementFor the past 17 months, the case had been hotly debated in Battleford, stirring deep feelings here about the treatment — both past and present — of the provinces Indigenous population.Mr. Stanleys supporters have used the episode to call for American-style stand your ground self-protection laws. Meanwhile, online vitriol has exposed the provinces divide between the Indigenous and non-Native communities with a torrent of overtly racist comments that led to a call from the provinces premier for everyone to rise above intolerance.Ben Kautz, a member of the municipal council in Browning, Saskatchewan, wrote, under his full name, in a Facebook page for farmers, now defunct, that Mr. Stanleys only mistake was leaving three witnesses. He has since stepped down from the council.At the same time, many non-Indigenous people in Saskatchewan view Mr. Boushies death as an injustice, including a group that stood in front of the courthouse on Thursday in bone-chilling cold holding signs and banners calling for justice.Mr. Boushies family and their supporters were angry about the police inquiry, which they called flawed and inadequate, contending that it initially focused more on the actions of the five young Indigenous people than on the killing of Mr. Boushie. They also said the case exposed a lack of progress in Mr. Trudeaus reconciliation effort.If we are making progress why would it have exploded so much when he got shot? Jade Tootoosis, Mr. Boushies cousin, asked the other day in the living room of their grandmothers house at Red Pheasant. I pity them because I dont understand why they feel so much hate for someone they dont know.AdvertisementEleanore Sunchild grew up in the Thunderchild Cree First Nation north of Battleford. Now she runs a legal practice in town that specializes in resolving claims by former pupils of mandatory boarding, or residential, schools the federal government established in the 19th century.In 2015 a national truth and reconciliation commission found the program to be cultural genocide against Indigenous people. Saskatchewan had more of the notorious schools than any other province, which both the commission and Ms. Sunchild blame for destroying Indigenous families for generations.Ms. Sunchild, 45, said her home province was the national laggard on reconciliation.Saskatchewan is just beginning, I dont even know if we have really started on reconciliation, she said. Im not saying that Indian people deserve a break because weve been victimized. Im saying that both sides have to take accountability and responsibility for what got us into this situation in the first place.The area is also an outlier on crime. Using data from Statistics Canada, a government agency, Macleans magazine found that North Battleford, Battlefords sister community across the North Saskatchewan River, is the most dangerous place in Canada.Car theft is common, and farmers in the sparsely settled region complain about agonizingly slow wait times for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to arrive. A Facebook group, Farmers With Firearms, appeared after Mr. Boushies death to call for allowing citizens to arm themselves, and also to support Mr. Stanleys actions on that fateful day.Last year, an association of rural municipalities in Saskatchewan passed a resolution asking the federal government to expand self-defense laws.Both groups say their efforts are directed against criminals, not Indigenous people.Alvin Baptiste, Mr. Boushies uncle, gave a tour of Red Pheasant to visitors this week. He acknowledged that some of the reserves young people, along with white youths in the area, passed too much of their time with drinking, drugs and petty crime. For that he blamed the lack of job opportunities since the decline in oil prices, the lingering effects of the residential schools on families and the general dysfunction of the reserve.A relatively new and well-maintained school is an exception in the area. No footprints lead through the snow to a hockey arena seemingly too large for the 500 or so people who live there. Money and energy to keep it operating ran out some time ago.Pointing to the community center across the street, Mr. Baptiste said that its basketball programs had stopped and that the building was used only for wakes and ceremonial occasions. Next to it are the abandoned gas pumps and building of what had been Red Pheasants only store.AdvertisementTheres nothing much to do on this reserve, theres nothing for them, he said, referring to young people.Evidence presented at the trial showed that the group in the car, while driving on a flat tire, had tried to steal a car at another farm before going to the Stanleys. In court, Mr. Stanleys lawyer acknowledged that a toxicology report showed that Mr. Boushie was so impaired its hard to believe that he could function at all.Chris Murphy, a lawyer retained by the Boushie family, said that a junior constable was initially put in charge of the investigation, forensic experts were not brought in and the car in which Mr. Boushie died was left uncovered, its doors open, for two rainy days, washing away evidence.The police force declined to comment.Mr. Stanley testified at trial that he grabbed his semiautomatic pistol to fire two warning shots. He said he was trying to turn off the engine of the car the men were driving while holding the pistol when the fatal bullet fired in what he testified was a complete surprise.Experts brought in by Mr. Stanleys lawyer said that on rare occasions, bullets can briefly linger inside guns and rifles after a trigger is pulled — although neither those experts nor ones with the police were able to recreate the flaw using Mr. Stanleys gun and ammunition.For Ms. Tootoosis, the social media hatred prompted by the killing of her cousin may also prove to be his legacy.Ultimately Cocos death needs to have a purpose, she said using the familys nickname for Mr. Boushie. Its brought to light such a divide, and the question now isnt what is the government do about it, what are the courts going to do about it? Its, What am I going to do about it? Follow Ian Austen on Twitter: @ianraustenA version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Trial Reflects on Canadas Relations With Indigenous Population.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
A Good Appetite By                     
 MELISSA CLARK
 
FEB. 2, 2018
For most of the year, I hold to the notion that what grows together goes together, especially when it comes to mingling things on a sheet pan.Springs tender greens and shoots; summers juicy zucchini and tomatoes; falls pumpkins and brussels sprouts; winters dense roots — its easy to come up with a harmonious dish within each season, in which all the vegetables roast at about the same rate.This recipe ignores all that.Although winter sweet potatoes are undeniably the focus here (along with ever-seasonal, stalwart chicken thighs), Ive paired them with summery bell peppers, imported from who-knows-where. They can be expensive, but the other ingredients here are thrifty.Peppers give a burst of juicy sweetness not available from a root, and by February, thats as welcome on the plate as a sunny, 50-degree afternoon on the weekend. Enjoy them when you have them.AdvertisementIts important to use red, yellow or orange bell peppers, the fleshier the better. Green ones dont have the sweetness needed to become profoundly caramelized.AdvertisementBack in winters root cellar, I also add red onion to the dish, in two different ways. In the first, the onion is roasted along with the peppers and potatoes. Roasted at high heat, red onions get crisp at the edges, providing textural contrast to all the luxurious softness.I also add them raw as a garnish, quick-pickling them to add some tangy brightness to the mix. I use cider vinegar as the acid, tamed with a drizzle of honey. You dont need to plan ahead for this kind of pickle; it comes together in about half an hour while the vegetables and chicken roast.And as for that chicken, thighs are my preferred sheet-pan cut because they are forgiving in terms of timing. A few minutes more or less wont dry them out in the way chicken breasts do. However, if youd rather make this with chicken breasts, choose the bone-in, skin-on kind if possible, and watch them carefully. They cook more quickly than thighs, so remove them just as their juices no longer run pink when poked with a knife (150 degrees on an instant-read thermometer). Leave the vegetables in the oven for a few more minutes until they are thoroughly golden and very tender.Then set the table, uncork the wine and enjoy a not-perfectly-seasonal dinner while dreaming about spring.And to drink...You could choose a lot of different kinds of wine for this dish, and you would be happy. Im going to opt for a lively red with plenty of acidity that will go with both the earthy chicken thighs and sweet potatoes as well as the bright flavorings and caramelized bell peppers. Beaujolais is the natural choice, especially one of the crus like Morgon, Fleurie or Côte de Brouilly. Other options of the same ilk include frappato from the Vittoria region of Italy, barberas from the Piedmont region of Italy, and any number of fresh reds made by the perhaps arcane process known as carbonic maceration. You want white? Why not? Dry chenin blancs, dry rieslings and lively, easygoing chardonnays will go very well. ERIC ASIMOVRecipe: Sheet-Pan Chicken With Sweet Potatoes and PeppersFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: A Sheet-Pan Supper That Defies the Seasons.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MAGGIE ASTORFEB. 21, 2018
On Tuesday, a dining hall at New York University advertised a special meal in honor of Black History Month. On the menu? Barbecue ribs, corn bread, collard greens, and two beverages with racist connotations: Kool-Aid and watermelon-flavored water.Nia Harris, a sophomore in N.Y.U.s College of Arts & Science, sought an explanation from Weinstein Passport Dining Halls head cook. The cook dismissed her objections, Ms. Harris said in an email to university officials, telling her that the Kool-Aid was actually fruit punch (it was not, she said) and that the dining hall served fruit-flavored water all the time (it does, she said, but not watermelon).Ms. Harris, 19, posted a screen shot of her email on Facebook, along with a post that began, This is what its like to be a black student at New York University. It spread quickly.Within a day, Andrew Hamilton, the university president, had released a statement calling the menu inexcusably insensitive. He said that the food and beverage choices had been made by Aramark, the universitys food service provider, with no input from N.Y.U. officials, and that the error was compounded by the insensitivity of the replies to Ms. Harriss questions.AdvertisementN.Y.U.s dining administrators will insist that Aramark put in place a mechanism to avoid a repeat of yesterdays episode, such as consulting the existing student advisory body and campus cultural groups about the menu for special events, Mr. Hamilton said in his apology, which was reported  by The Washington Square News, N.Y.U.s student newspaper.AdvertisementAramark already requires employees to do that, but it said that two of its workers violated that standard by planning the menu on their own. Both were fired on Wednesday, and the company said it was retraining its N.Y.U. employees.We have zero tolerance for any employee who does not adhere to our values or contradicts our longstanding commitment to diversity and inclusion, Aramark said in a statement Wednesday evening. Employees at N.Y.U. who acted independently and did not follow our approved plan for the celebration of Black History Month have been terminated and are no longer with the company. We are extremely disappointed by this regrettable situation and apologize to the entire N.Y.U. community and communities everywhere for their insensitive and offensive actions.Ms. Harris was initially told by the dining halls head cook that the employees who made up the menu were black. But later, she said on Sunday, she and other students learned from university officials that the Kool-Aid and watermelon water were the work of white employees; black employees were consulted only on the food offerings, not the drinks.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The fired workers — the dining halls general manager and head cook — are both white men, she said.A statement from the universitys Governance Council of Minority and Marginalized Students said the same, and attributed the information to three N.Y.U. officials who work on diversity and multicultural initiatives: Lisa Coleman, Monroe France and Leah Lattimore. The officials could not be reached for comment Sunday afternoon. But an Aramark spokeswoman said that one of the two managers who was terminated was a person of color, and the other was not.Watermelons and Kool-Aid have long histories as racial stereotypes. Watermelons, especially, have been used for more than a century as a symbol of black peoples perceived uncleanliness, laziness, childishness and unwanted public presence, the historian William R. Black wrote in The Atlantic in 2014, after two highly publicized uses of the stereotype.In October 2014, shortly after an intruder managed to enter the White House, The Boston Herald published a cartoon that showed him standing in President Barack Obamas bathtub, asking Mr. Obama if he had tried the new watermelon-flavored toothpaste. And in November, the author Daniel Handler (a.k.a. Lemony Snicket) came under fire after joking about the fact that Jacqueline Woodson, a National Book Award winner who is black, is allergic to watermelon. (Ms. Woodson responded with a New York Times Op-Ed essay.)AdvertisementIn a phone interview Wednesday evening, Ms. Harris said she chose to believe that the Aramark employees had acted out of ignorance of their menus implications, not out of malice. But she added that it should not have been her responsibility to point out the problem — one that she said went far beyond a single incident.I would consider today a victory, she said. But its also very important that we had to publicize it in order to put the pressure on them to do the right thing, because I feel like had I not publicized it, this could have gone a little bit differently.Kayla Eubanks, a sophomore studying neuroscience, said in an interview last week that most of the students and faculty members she had spoken to were unaware of the incident.They cant address a problem they dont know exists, she said. They dont know the issues that were facing, so they cant even be held accountable.On a daily basis, Ms. Harris said, she and other black students are doing the same work and were getting the same grades as you, and were doing this extra work, teaching people how to be sensitive to us.The burden of teaching people how to be respectful to us is falling on us, she said.Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 2018, on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Anger and Firings Follow A Special Menu at N.Y.U. For Black History Month.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
A Good Appetite By                     
 MELISSA CLARK
 
JAN. 26, 2018
Gently cooked onions, simmered in butter or oil until they collapse in a golden-brown heap, need very little help to become a meal.Add broth and some toasted bread, and they become a soothing soup. Scoop them onto pizzas or stir them into risotto or pasta, and they shine sweetly against the plainer carbs.And in this hearty, warming stew, they melt into a soft-textured sauce for brawny cubes of beef.Pound for pound, theres nearly as much onion in the pot as there is meat, with the two flavors melding into each other. Bite into a strand of onion without any meat attached, and youll emphatically taste the beef, while the meat absorbs all the oniony broth that surrounds it, becoming redolent as it falls apart on your fork.For a simple stew like this one, you could use any meat. Pork, lamb or even venison would provide ballast for the mellowness of the allium. But beef cooked with copious onions is a classic. Youll see it in Greek stifado, flavored with red wine vinegar; in Ugandan Bunyoro stew, scented with curry powder; and in ale-spiked Flemish carbonnade, on which this recipe is very loosely based.AdvertisementThe ale here is essential. It adds a restraining note of bitterness to counter the onions, which can become overwhelming depending on their natural sugar content and how long you cook them. The longer and slower they go, the sweeter they become. A shot of ale keeps them in check.AdvertisementThe same can be said for a spoonful of strong Dijon mustard served alongside the stew. Although many traditional beef carbonnade recipes call for stirring the mustard into the stew pot, cooking mustard tames its bite. I like it pungent and raw, a bracing contrast to all the beefy tenderness on the plate. If you can find extra-hot Dijon, even better.Another ingredient to seek out is good, strong fresh paprika. Contrary to the beliefs of many cooks, paprika should actually taste like something, and should not just be a bland and ruddy garnish for deviled eggs. If you cant remember when you last bought a jar of paprika, buy a new one. Then open it and inhale. It should smell sweet, fruity and a little funky.Like all good stews, this one needs a soft bed on which to land. Noodles, potatoes, polenta, rice or quinoa will all work to absorb every drop of that gloriously oniony, meaty sauce.Recipe: Beer-Braised Beef and OnionsAnd to Drink …With this variation on Flemish carbonnade, beer would be a natural selection: a Belgian ale, a brown ale, or a dry stout or porter. Good sturdy red wines would be delicious as well. Gigondas or Châteauneuf-du-Pape, from the southern Rhône Valley, would be great so long as they are not too fruity. Cornas from the northern Rhône would go well, as would structured cabernet francs from the Loire Valley. You could also try syrahs from California or Washington. I would be happy with a Rioja reserva. From Italy, you could try an aglianico from Campania or Basilicata, or a Sicilian nerello mascalese from Mount Etna. The key for the red is to have enough body and structure to stand up to the assertive stew but not overwhelm it with sweet fruit flavors. ERIC ASIMOVFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Warm, Hearty and Meant for Each Other.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Student Opinion By                     
 NATALIE PROULX
 
JAN. 31, 2018
Complete this Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale or just read through some of the statements. What does it tell you about perfectionist attitudes and behaviors?Does your score indicate that you have a tendency toward perfectionism? If so, is it self-oriented, other-oriented, socially prescribed or a combination of these? Is it adaptive or maladaptive?Note to students and teachers: This scale is not a clinical measure, but the statements can be a good starting point for discussing and understanding perfectionist tendencies.In More College Students Seem to Be Majoring in Perfectionism, Jane Adams writes:New data from American, Canadian and British college students indicates that perfectionism, especially when influenced by social media, has increased by 33 percent since 1989.As a psychologist, Im not shocked. The study, published last month in the Psychological Bulletin, reflects what my colleagues and I are hearing from our clients and discussing among ourselves: As college students are returning to school after their winter breaks, many parents are concerned about the state of their mental health. The parents worry about the pressure their kids are putting on themselves. Thinking that others in their social network expect a lot of them is even more important to young adults than the expectations of parents and professors.Millennials feel pressure to perfect themselves partly out of social media use that leads them to compare themselves to others, said Thomas Curran, the studys lead author and a lecturer in the Center for Motivation and Health Behavior Change at the University of Bath in England. He added that this theory hasnt been tested and would require further research.Meritocracy places a strong need for young people to strive, perform and achieve, he said. They have increasingly unrealistic educational and professional expectations for themselves.Parents in my practice say theyre noticing how often their kids come away from Facebook and Instagram feeling depressed, ashamed and anxious, and how vulnerable they are to criticism and judgment, even from strangers, on their social media feeds.Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:— What expectations do you have of yourself when it comes to school, friends, sports, extracurricular activities, community service, your future career or any other parts of your life? Would you consider yourself a perfectionist in any of these areas? Would others describe you this way? Why or why not?Advertisement— In your family, are personal accomplishment and hard work in academics, sports, socializing or other areas rewarded? Do you feel as if your familys expectations for you are too high, too low or just right? Why?Advertisement— From whom do you feel the most pressure to be successful or happy? Your parents, teachers, coaches, friends or yourself? How does this compare to what Ms. Adams has seen from young people in her psychology practice?— How much do you think social media influences your perfectionism? Do you feel pressure to present yourself well online? Does spending time on social media ever make you feel depressed, ashamed or anxious? Are you ever afraid of criticism and judgment from friends and strangers online?— Do you think setting high standards for yourself is a positive attribute? Or can it be cause for concern? Do you have any strategies for managing these expectations of yourself so you are productive and not paralyzed by worry?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Roger CohenPeople are weak. They are susceptible. They are easily manipulated through their fears. They long to prostrate themselves. They can be led by the nose into the gutter. The angels of their better natures, if theyve ever given a moments thought to them, are a lot less powerful than the devils of their diabolical urges.They lie, they exploit, they seek distraction at any price from the monotony of existence. The life of humankind, as Hobbes famously put it, is solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short. Especially short: You no sooner begin to get the hang of it, learn a few useful tricks like lowered expectations, than its over. Poof!This is the basic setup. Society is an exercise in trying to offset horrors through law and convention.Every now and again, along comes somebody, or some new technology, or both, capable of taking this raw human material and shaping it into a crazed, baying, hypnotized mob that is convinced the Great Leader has come. Whatever this Messiah says goes. The moon is a balloon, if he says so; and entire communities with the wrong beliefs or shade of skin are chopped liver.Examples? Dear reader, I respect you too much to belabor the obvious. Look around. The wealthiest society on earth is currently subjected to the chaotic rule of a mean and vulgar charlatan who refined the manipulation of humanity through a TV show that was a ratings smash in its first season, continued under his guidance for more than a decade, and relied on the cruelty of whimsical humiliation for its frisson. Donald Trump had a solid education in the power of images, the flimsiness of objective reality, and the magnetism of authority.I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldnt lose any voters, O.K.? he declared during the campaign. Lets hand it to Trump: he was right. Americans voted him into office after he said that. They were ready to roll the dice, even on nuclear war, if the alternative was to be bored. They were mad.Theres not much new under the sun. Long before Facebook and Twitter and Russian trolls on social media, the potential to combine the bombardment of visual media, the genius of an individual (Trumps word), and mass disorientation to forge dystopian madness had been imagined.So heres a little test. The following three passages are not in chronological order. Which came first, and when do they date from?We deal in illusions, man! None of it is true! But you people sit there, day after day, night after night, all ages, colors, creeds. Were all you know. Youre beginning to believe the illusions were spinning here. Youre beginning to think the tube is reality and that your own lives are unreal. You do whatever the tube tells you.Heres the second: This whole countrys just like my flock of sheep! Rednecks, crackers, hillbillies, hausfraus, shut-ins, pea-pickers — everybody thats got to jump when somebody else blows the whistle….. Theyre mine. I own em. They think like I do. Only theyre even more stupid than I am, so I gotta think for them.And finally: The stresses set up by the social changes wrought by the advent of technology are straining the structure of civilization beyond the limits of tolerance. The machine does our work for us and meekly comes and goes at our bidding. But it inexorably demands its wages.The answers are: the first dates from 1976 and is from the extraordinary Sidney Lumet movie Network, written by Paddy Chayefsky. The second, from 1957, appears in the equally prescient Elia Kazan movie A Face in the Crowd, written by Budd Schulberg. (Watch them both if you want to understand Trump.) The third dates from 1938. Its a passage from my fathers high school magazine in Johannesburg that I stumbled on while researching my last book. Civilization, of course, would collapse a year later when Hitler invaded Poland.Network traces the apotheosis of a news anchor, Howard Beale, who goes off-script on TV, raging against the world and television — their lies and manipulations — and develops a following with his unforgettable cri de coeur: Im as mad as hell, and Im not going to take this any more! His ratings, previously in a dive, soar. A Face in the Crowd also follows a media sensation, Lonesome Rhodes, who parlays his charm and popular touch into a meteoric rise to national television. He is a fraud, with startling instincts for human weakness, who takes everyone in.Beale, whose rise begins when he announces he will commit suicide live on TV, succumbs in the end to the terrible logic of his success when he is assassinated during his show.Rhodes is undone by a hot mic as he dissects the idiocy of the Americans he has entranced: Those morons out there? Shheh, I can take chicken fertilizer and sell it to em for caviar. I can make them eat dog food and theyll think its steak ... You know what the publics like? A cage full of guinea pigs."Somewhere, a hot mic is waiting for Trump. Its name might be the Mueller investigation, whose painstaking nature is making him hotheaded. People are dumb, but they know when their president is compromised. As a wise man once observed, You cant fool all the people all the time.You can follow me on Twitter (@NYTimesCohen) or join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySoumya Sankar Boses collaborative photos imagine possible futures, and re-examine traumatic pasts, through his subjects visions and anxieties.By Jake NaughtonPhotographs by Soumya Sankar BoseIt started, as these things sometimes do, with a recurring dream: There is a woman lying prostrate on a bed. It is unclear who she is — mother? sister? lover? — but always she is dead. The dreamer has arrived, seemingly fresh from the battlefield, just in time to mourn her. The vision haunted the nighttime hours of the dreamer for 16 years.If that dream seems ripe for interpretation and artistic reimagining, well, thats kind of the idea. For the Kolkata-based photographer, Soumya Sankar Bose, the dream (whose dreamer is a lesbian and close friend of Mr. Sankar Boses) formed the kernel around which he crafted his new project, Full Moon in a Dark Night, in which he explores the psychological ramifications of anti-L.G.B.T.Q. laws and culture in present-day India. My work is about people, he said. It takes time to develop the trust and the connection. So initially there are not lots of photographs because I just start meeting new people and asking about their feelings. For Mr. Sankar Bose, a Magnum Foundation fellow, the dreams and anxieties of his subjects provide fertile ground to explore the complex etchings that history and culture can carve into our psyches. In a previous project, Lets Sing an Old Song, he revisited famous folk artists from the 1960s whose stars had faded with the advent of cinema and television. Together, they manufactured scenes and created images that reminisced on the bygone glory days and are permeated with a tangible melancholy. In Full Moon in a Dark Night, Mr. Sankar Bose set his sights on the psychic landscape of the L.G.B.T.Q. community living in the shadow of a colonial-era law, Section 377, which criminalizes same-sex sexual activity. He often spends weeks getting to know the people who will become his subjects, whom he meets through friends, local L.G.B.T.Q. organizations and referrals from people who have already become a part of the project. Once a person expresses interest, Mr. Sankar Bose will meet with her or him several times so they can get to know each other. He researches the potential subjects social media posts and asks about their thoughts, fears, desires and past traumas. Armed with all of this, they then discuss what kind of picture they might make together.The people are part of this project too. For me they are like collaborators, rather than the subject, he said. Its for me to understand someone and their psychology. Every picture is a kind of story, one persons story. Despite the potentially dour subject matter, the resulting images are limned with tenderness and, if not always uplifting, are darkly beautiful. They imagine possible futures, reimagine traumatic pasts and explore the now that could have been.When Im doing this project, he said, most of the friends of mine who are a part of this project, they say sometimes: This project is not just a project. This is a counseling thing. This is the only world we are making that people can express their problems or desires or dreams. It gives them a kind of relief. For me its very important to do this work.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Soumya Sankar Bose and Jake Naughton are on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gail CollinsSo people, how do you think the sex scandal in Missouri will affect the Democrats attempt to take control of the Senate?That was actually a test. Which part of the sentence got your attention? Sex or the fate of the November elections? Ill bet that tells a lot about your character.Actually, its easy to talk about both. The House could change hands! If it does, do you think it will involve the Pennsylvania district where Republican Tim Murphy, a strong anti-abortion conservative, had to resign after he got caught urging his lover to have an abortion if she got pregnant? Or the district next door, where the former lover has announced shes running against a Democratic incumbent?Everythings a tea leaf, simmering in sex. This week Linda Belcher, a Democrat, won a special election for the Kentucky State House of Representatives in a rural district that had previously been controlled by a Republican. This was seen in some circles as a sign that the Democrats were going to ride an anti-Trump wave in November and retake control of Congress.The results here show that if we can win in this district we can win anywhere, said the chairman of the Kentucky Democratic Party.Well, there were a couple of details. Belcher had actually represented the district before, then lost in 2016 to Dan Johnson, a right-wing Republican whose Facebook posts included one depicting the Obamas as apes and another announcing: Allah sucks. Mohammed sucks. Islam sucks.Johnson, who was also the bishop of an evangelical church, killed himself in December after he was accused of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old parishioner. Belcher defeated his widow, who is refusing to concede, claiming widespread voter fraud.This does feel kind of … unique to be a bellwether.The Missouri story has the advantage of being way less depressing. The sex appears to have been totally consensual until the point when the governor tied his naked lover to a piece of exercise equipment and took her picture.See, youre already getting interested and I havent gotten anywhere near the connection to the November Senate races.Gov. Eric Greitens, a Republican, is a 43-year-old up-and-comer who was rumored to nurture presidential aspirations until the recent unpleasantness. In his campaign announcement he introduced himself as a Navy SEAL, native Missourian and most importantly, a proud husband and father.Now, he admits that when he was gearing up to run for office in 2015, he had an affair with his hair stylist. We are a pretty jaded country at this point, and this news alone would hardly be the sort of thing that would cause his constituents to faint. Or even, probably, mention over coffee.As usual, the problem came with the details. Greitens, according to the story everyone in Missouri who is not in a coma now knows, invited the woman to his home for a series of assignations — presumably when the wife and kids were off premises. At one point he took her into the exercise room for sex, taped her hands to some rings, blindfolded her and then … snapped her picture.He said, Youre never going to mention my name, the woman recounted later. Otherwise, she said, the governor warned there will be pictures of me everywhere. This was during a confession to her husband, who secretly taped the whole thing. Really, I think its possible to feel sorry for the hair stylist.This week, a grand jury indicted Greitens for taking the picture in a manner that allowed access to that image via a computer. Which turns out to be a felony.Greitenss wife, Sheena, is standing by him. The governor is going around talking about his tax plan, which does not seem to be the first thing on most peoples minds. The Republican-dominated legislature is gearing up for inquiries, possibly with an eye to impeachment.This story leaves those of us who do not live in Missouri with several questions. One of which, of course, is, What kind of person is this? Another is whether the scandal will have any effect on the upcoming Missouri Senate race, in which Senator Claire McCaskill is one of the most vulnerable of all the Democrats running for re-election.Her opponent, Attorney General Josh Hawley, has strong connections with Greitens and something of a history of attempting to be holier-than-thou on matters relating to sex.Hawley has criticized McCaskill for not being faster to call for Senator Al Franken to resign, but he still hasnt demanded that his governor step down. Just this week he attempted to link McCaskill with Harvey Weinstein, claiming that she gave Weinstein a taxpayer-funded advertisement for his movie. This would have been a meeting McCaskill had in 2014 with Philomena Lee, a woman whose attempts to find the baby shed given up for adoption in her youth had been made into a Weinstein film.So far we have a photos-of-naked-woman-taped-to-exercise-rings sex scandal on the Republican side and a meeting to talk about adoption issues for the Democrat.Cant wait to see what happens next. Maybe another state can come up with sadomasochism in the sauna.I invite you to join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas St. FleurThe extinct Tasmanian tiger, or thylacine, bears an uncanny resemblance to todays canines.Like dogs, wolves and dingoes, it was a carnivore with a svelte body, long, narrow snout and strong hind legs. But the Tasmanian tiger was a marsupial, meaning it had a pouch like a kangaroo. And despite the similarities, the Tasmanian tiger last shared a common ancestor with the placental pack some 160 million years ago during the Jurassic period.One of the things we were interested in was how come they look so much like dogs even though they are distantly related? said Andrew Pask, a developmental biologist at the University of Melbourne and Museums Victoria who sequenced the thylacine genome last year.He said it was one of the most apparent cases of convergent evolution, where two unrelated organisms evolve to look or function alike because of the similar niches they fill in their environments.The Tasmanian tiger was wiped out by hunters in Tasmania during the early 1900s. Scientists have had to examine rare museum specimens in order to better understand the characteristics the creatures shared with canines.Now, by studying baby thylacines preserved in jars, Dr. Pask and his colleagues have pinpointed when those similarities began to develop. Using CT-scanning, the team revealed, for the first time digitally, the developmental stages of the extinct thylacine.The findings, which were published Wednesday in the journal Royal Society Open Science, provide insight into when the Tasmanian tigers left their marsupial inheritance to become more dog-like. They also show the three-dimensional growth of the joeys internal organs and skeletons as they prepared to exit their mothers pouches and enter the world.Marsupials dont have a placenta, so when they give birth their young are born premature. All of these babies, from koalas to wombats, look like pink jelly beans.They are alien-like with a little head and no eyes yet, said Dr. Pask. But theyve got these forearms that have impressive muscles and little claws and paws they use to climb into the pouch.As thylacines nurse, a change occurs that distinguishes them from other marsupial species, the team found. Somewhere from week five to week eight, their hind legs and faces elongate, giving them a puppy-like appearance.The bones are growing much more like a big canid or other large body predators, than they do in other marsupials, said Christy Hipsley, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Melbourne and Museums Victoria, and an author on the paper. Knowing when that happens can lead us to understanding why that happens and under what circumstances.After about twelve weeks, the striped joeys are ready to leave their mothers pouch.The team constructed the Tasmanian tigers developmental timeline after studying all of the 13 known thylacine pouch pups in the world from collections in Australia, Tasmania and the Czech Republic. But after conducting their CT scans, they discovered that two of the specimens were mislabeled and actually belonged to some other marsupial.Because its hard to gain access to the rare specimens, the team made their digital scans available online for other researchers to use.The data are enormously valuable to a wide variety of scientists and incredibly hard to obtain, said John Hutchinson, an evolutionary biomechanist at the Royal Veterinary College at the University of London who was not involved in the study, so this is a very important effort on the grounds of obtaining rare data alone.Verity Bennett, an expert in marsupial evolution at Cardiff University, who was not involved in the paper, said the research added another important piece of data to the growing understanding of marsupial development.It shows despite its relatively unique ecology and skeletal morphology, the early development of the thylacine is generally consistent with that of other marsupials,  Dr. Bennett said.She added that shed be interested to see if the thylacines developmental pattern was shared among its carnivorous pouched cousins, like the thylacoleo, or marsupial lion, and the thylacosmilus, or saber-toothed marsupial.READ MORE:Tasmanian Tigers Brains Yield Clues Long After ExtinctionCall of the Thylacine: Protect the Wild_____Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.Nicholas St. Fleur is a science reporter who writes about archaeology, paleontology, space and other topics. He joined The Times in 2015. Before that, he was an assistant editor at The Atlantic.  @scifleurFacebookAdvertisementBy ROD NORDLANDFEB. 5, 2018
KOBANI, Syria — One fighter posed for selfies with the womans corpse. Another called her a female pig. Another man stood on her naked breast as someone said, Shes beautiful, man.Those are some of the low points of two new videos of what appear to be Turkish-backed fighters abusing the mutilated body of a Kurdish fighter.The videos, which were posted on Saturday by the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, have caused an unusual uproar in a war in which hard-to-watch footage has been a regular feature.The head of the rights group, Rami Abdul Rahman, said on Monday that he had obtained the videos from one of the fighters pictured in them, who identified the group as part of the Free Syrian Army. The Free Syrian Army is a rebel militia fighting alongside Turkey in its battle against the Kurds in northern Syria.AdvertisementAlthough horrifying videos are nothing new in Syrias seven-year war, in this case the videos were apparently made by a group at least nominally under the command of a NATO country. That the object of abuse was a partly naked woman added to the outrage, with some commentators saying that even the Islamic State would not have behaved as badly.The Free Syrian Army ordered an investigation, saying in a statement that it will not hesitate to hold accountable those who prove to be involved in this incident, if it is verified, in accordance with Shariah law and our principles. The statement went on to say that the group adhered to international human rights principles and Shariah law in dealing with the bodies of victims.AdvertisementMore than 10,000 Free Syrian Army fighters are part of the Turkish militarys offensive, which began on Jan. 20 to oust the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces from the town of Afrin, which borders Turkey in northwestern Syria.The Turkish government, military and official media did not initially comment on the episode.The body was identified by Kurdish forces as that of Barin Kobani, a military pseudonym, though a spokesman declined to confirm her real name. She and three other members of the Kurdish womens militia, the Womens Protection Units, were killed last week defending Afrin, the militia said.In such a bestial scene, it is proven to the world the identity of the real invaders and the terrorists in Afrin, the militia said in a statement. The Turkish state is the worlds sponsor of terrorism.The comment on the videos that most incensed Kurds in Syria, judging from posts on Kurdish Facebook and Twitter accounts, was Shes beautiful, man. Her body at that point was partly naked, and her exposed breasts appeared to have been mutilated. One of the men then stood with his booted foot on her left breast.This is the spoils of war from the female pigs of the P.K.K., one of the men in the videos says, referring to the Kurdistan Workers Party, a Kurdish group from Turkey designated by the United States and Europe as terrorists.The Syrian Kurdish militia, known as the Peoples Protection Units or Y.P.G., is not considered terrorist by Western countries and says it has no affiliation with the P.K.K.AdvertisementThe Turkish newspaper Vatan described Barin Kobani as a would-be suicide bomber who detonated her explosives when spotted by Free Syrian Army members. The newspaper dismissed claims that the members of the Free Syrian Army tortured Ms. Kobani as propaganda.The spokesman for the main Kurdish militia in the region, Birosk Hasakah, disputed that Ms. Kobani was a suicide attacker. He said that she and three other Kurdish fighters had been surrounded by Free Syrian Army forces in Qarnah village on Jan. 30 but refused to surrender.Barin and the others, they fought to the end, he said. She didnt make any suicide.In the first video, 60 seconds long, Ms. Kobanis body is laid out on her back in the dirt and appears intact, in blue jeans and wearing what appear to be ammunition vests, also apparently intact.Nine armed men in assorted uniforms and civilian clothing pick at her corpse, searching her body and finding a grenade and an accessory pouch for her BKC light machine gun. Several times the men pose with their boots on her body. One man posed twice for a selfie with her body behind him.In the second video clip, 13 seconds long, the victim is partly unclothed and mutilated, again laid out on her back but apparently in a different location; the color and type of dirt has changed. After the fighter put a booted foot onto her breast, a commander apparently tried to intervene. No, no, no, guys, he said.The National Council of Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces, a pro-Turkish group, also called for an investigation into the episode. Barins body was mutilated by monsters, Burhan Ghalioun, a critic of the Y.P.G. and the former president of the Syrian National Council, wrote on Facebook. Whoever did this to Barin does not belong to the human race.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Abdul Rahman of the Syrian Observatory called the behavior of the men in the video horrific even by Islamic State standards. This is more brutal, more ugly even than ISIS; they didnt mutilate bodies like this, put their feet on someones chest, he said. They beheaded people, but they didnt do this sort of thing.Mutilating dead bodies is a war crime under the international laws of armed conflict.Some Turkish commentators praised the events depicted in the video, and this post was typical of many on social media: If you were men, you would not give weapons to women and put them on the front lines.Many Kurdish women saw the conduct shown in the video as expressing hatred for the role women play in the Kurdish militias, where women and men have separate units but fight together.They want to break the women, they dont want them to be free, said Berivan Hesen, the co-president of the Kurdish civil government in Kobani, Syria. But weve been following public opinion, and every woman in the world was hurt by what happened to Barin Kobani.Follow Rod Nordland on Twitter: @rodnordlandCarlotta Gall contributed reporting from Istanbul, and Hwaida Saad from Beirut.A version of this article appears in print on February 6, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Videos of Syrian Militia Abusing Kurdish Corpse Stir Outrage.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Wordplay By                     
 CAITLIN LOVINGER
 
FEB. 23, 2018
SATURDAY PUZZLE — I was struck by two aspects of this Saturday puzzle by John Guzzetta, one very specific, one broad. First, for some reason, a pair of long crossing entries stuck out to me — PAROLE HEARING and BAILED OUT. That inspired the silly readout under the headline today, and just struck me as extra clever. It couldnt be my own conscience, which is as innocent as a spring lamb, and certainly couldnt be because the long, extremely slow-moving arm of the law has been on my blameless mind these days. Nevertheless, I appreciated it.The other, less particular attribute today was the nice mix of clues from different vernacular eras. Todays puzzle had a couple of very recent terms that I was challenged by, and another couple of long entries that were anachronisms to me, equally hard to figure. Most of the good Times puzzles use modern slang, terms from antiquity, and everything in between; the best do it so skillfully that solvers of all linguistic interests can find a clue or two for their genre of choice, as well as pick up some terms. Thats one of the things that keeps this sport alive!1A: So, theres a movie called the FIFTH ESTATE, from 2013, thats about WikiLeaks, basically, although the inference is that the term refers to everything informational and digital. That was the only reference I could come up with for this clue without help (from the fifth estate, I guess one could say). But a quick Google search finds a Canadian investigative journalism show like 60 Minutes, sort of, by the same name; it dates from 1975. Then a little more perspective: The term was used in England in 1932 to refer to radio. As long as we in newspapering can just stay fourth its O.K. Its not like were going to get on the medal podium.17A: For Dirt spreader, I thought literally, and tried to figure out what farming or construction implement could fit in here. Instead this cleverly refers to the kind of dirt we dish out, gossip or whisper about, the specialty of a RUMORMONGER.AdvertisementTheres been a lot of research into the evolution of gossip, since it seems to be as omnipresent and influential in dogs as it is in human culture. Dogs convey important information to one another by leaking, or marking interesting smells and trails to potential food sources — garbage cans and flattened pigeons, for example. (Even when I dont let my urban dogs anywhere near such delicacies they always rebel by leaving a little hint for anyone else who comes by.)AdvertisementOf course, dogs are more honest than people. Otherwise, wed be our own best friends, and more dogs would be on Facebook. Would they still fall for the invisible tennis ball throw? I mean, we do.33A: An occasional entry in the Times puzzle, I didnt know the term COLLET for a gem setting. In case you want to incorporate it into conversation (with your jeweler, perchance?) the word apparently sounds like call it, rather than Collette or Calais.9D: Another technical term that got me, it turns out that AVGAS, used to power planes around the world, is the last leaded fuel we use in this country, and could go the way of the passenger pigeon in the next five years, after many years of accumulating scientific evidence. Then again, that will take regulations, which will entail regulators listening to science over industry, if regulators still exist.12D: I learned years ago about the curse and blessing of the copious precious metal resources in Latin America. Last year, I was lucky enough to spend some time in Cusco, Peru, where theres a museum with pre-Columbian artifacts that are ethereally sophisticated and beautiful. Argentina got its international name, from the conquistadors, for its trove of silver. Someone from there is an ARGENTINE; so, apparently, is anything containing silver.This meditative little video is from a notable silversmithing family, originally from Spain, thats been in Buenos Aires for about a century.When I submitted this puzzle in 2016, MACRON was not the president of France. Im glad to see that improvement in the clues, as well as several others.On Saturdays, we usually encounter some risky climbing. If you need a toehold, or just a little shove over the peak, now you can peek.What did you think?Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
The Hunt By                     
 JOYCE COHEN
 
FEB. 22, 2018
A decade ago, Brad Archer was sent to England for work. There, he met his husband-to-be, a colleague named Ross Haynes.The two rented a two-bedroom flat in Crouch End, North London, until Mr. Haynes was offered a job in New York. Then, nearly four years ago, they moved into a large one-bedroom rental on Riverside Drive, paying in the low $3,000s a month.When they married three years ago and took the surname Archer-Haynes, their plans included adopting a child or two, so they knew more space would be required. Friends urged them to simply section off the dining room and use that as a bedroom.We saw friends making huge sacrifices to stay in Manhattan, said Brad, 38, who works in marketing for Viacom International. (Ross, 32, works in retail marketing for Nickelodeon.)AdvertisementBut they wanted not just a second bedroom, but a third, to accommodate Rosss parents on extended visits from their home in Dorset, England. Even if they spent $1 million, though, the couple knew their options would be limited in the city. So nearly two years ago, they began to consider the suburbs, where they discovered they could get at least three bedrooms for around $700,000.AdvertisementThe couple read about Suburban Jungle, a free service that advises city dwellers making the switch to the suburbs. The service seemed ideal for people like us who dont know where to go, said Brad, who is from the Hudson Valley.Suburban Jungle suggested a few towns in New Jersey, and the couple settled on Maplewood. They noticed that Morrow Memorial United Methodist Church displayed a gay pride banner, and that meant something to us, Brad said.Maplewood also had a lively downtown and was filled with charming houses that are slightly larger than a starter home without being too large, said Amy Owens, the agent at Keller Williams in Montclair with whom Suburban Jungle matched them. The relatively small yards were appealing as well.But they wanted to be within walking distance of the New Jersey Transit station, and that was a big ask, Brad said.When they realized that property taxes for the homes they were looking at were generally around $15,000 a year, they lowered their target price, dropping into the $600,000s. And at that price point, sellers had the upper hand, Ms. Owens said, with most properties snapped up in a matter of days.Early on, the couple saw a modestly sized house they liked with three bedrooms, listed at $549,000, but they decided to hold out for something bigger. They were confounded when it sold quickly, for $623,000.Then they saw a lovely center-hall colonial with an asking price of $629,000. They offered $660,000, but it sold for $720,000.We clearly had no idea what was going on, Brad said.Listing prices seemed to have little meaning, with houses being bid up by tens of thousands of dollars. A house would go on the market on a Thursday, and by Monday they were going with 10 offers, Brad said. It created a lot of stress.AdvertisementLater, the couple saw another center-hall colonial they liked, with an attic that had been turned into a master suite. But it was listed for $719,000 — more than they wanted to spend — so they bid less than the asking price. When it sold for $730,000, they were both frustrated and relieved.Last summer, a listing for a side-hall colonial appeared for $639,000. It had four bedrooms, two bathrooms and a detached garage. And it was a 10-minute walk from the train station, which made the house even more appealing, although by then they had discovered that the town has what the couple call an adult school bus — a jitney that runs to and from the station.There were several offers, Ms. Owens said, but theirs was the highest, at $687,000.Their first thought was Have we actually just done this after two years? Ross said. It was a scary moment, but we loved the house.They arrived in the fall with their Boston terrier, Olive, still wondering whether they had paid too much or gotten a great deal.In the beginning, the house seemed too large. It was weird, having to go downstairs for your coffee before you went back upstairs, Brad said.Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.They acquired not just a car, but a snowblower, and New Jersey drivers licenses as well. They joined relevant Facebook groups, including SOMa lounge (for residents of Maplewood and neighboring South Orange, which share a school district) and another group for local adoptive families.Then, one cold day they arrived home to hear water gurgling in the basement. A dishwasher pipe had burst.AdvertisementNobody tells you about the bad stuff, Brad said. How could I make it to 38 years old and be so ill-equipped to live in a house? Our life used to be so simple and straightforward. They shut off the water, contacted their insurance company and hired a plumber.As they expected, the town is a good fit. Mr. Ross has even found British treats for sale at a nearby store, the Wine Barrel, so I can get my fill of digestive biscuits, he said.And while they are still furnishing their home, they can envision children there. We can actually have a family here and not feel constrained, Brad said. I can see our future happening.Email: thehunt@nytimes.comFor weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page RE6 of the New York edition with the headline: A Boston Terrier Called Olive for Now, but Children Later.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By TARIQ PANJAFEB. 22, 2018
PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — The Russian curler who failed drug tests at the Winter Olympics has made a last-minute decision to withdraw his appeal, a move that came after a meeting between an aide to Russias president, Vladimir V. Putin, and the International Olympic Committee head, Thomas Bach.Alexander Krushelnytskys decision on Wednesday to waive a challenge comes as the I.O.C.s executive board prepares to decide on whether to lift its suspension on the Russian Olympic Committee before the closing ceremony of the Games, which would allow Russian athletes to parade in their own colors, a privilege denied at the start of the Olympics.Deciding what to do about the Russian delegation — banned for a state-orchestrated doping program that corrupted the last Winter Games — has proved to be a bruising conundrum for the I.O.C., which has seen its own members fall out over the issue.Bach, the I.O.C. head, met with Igor Levitin, a former transportation minister who is now vice chairman of Russias Olympic committee, in Pyeongchang, South Korea, a few hours before Krushelnytsky announced that he had had a change of heart. On Thursday, the Court of Arbitration for Sport, or C.A.S., ruled that Krushelnytsky was guilty of doping and disqualified him from the Games, stripping the bronze medals he and his wife had won in the mixed curling event.AdvertisementIt would be stupid to deny it after two tests proved positive, he had said before the ruling, in comments reported by the Russian news agency Tass. The samples tested had been collected during the Olympic Games, and I am ready to face the verdict that is usually announced in such cases.Krushelnytsky denies knowingly taking meldonium, a heart medicine that increases blood flow. Russia has opened a criminal investigation into the circumstances that led to the failed tests.AdvertisementLevitin declined to comment when asked about the meeting with Bach.The I.O.C. said in December, when it announced a series of penalties against Russia, that it would consider lifting the suspension for Sundays closing ceremony, should Russia act within the spirit and letter of its conditions, which included paying a $15 million fine and making a commitment to adhere to the global antidoping code.Russia has resisted paying the fine, with officials there saying it would only be made should there be guarantees of no further sanctions against Russia.The I.O.C. sought to play down the significance of the meeting between Levitin and Bach. Its chief spokesman, Mark Adams, describing the visit as nothing more than a four-minute birthday meeting for Levitin, 66, who remains close to Putin and has been discussed as a possible candidate to replace Vitaly Mutko as deputy prime minister. Mutko has been barred for life from the Olympics over his purported links to the doping program.It was four minutes, Adams said to reporters about the meeting between Levitin and Bach. He wished him happy birthday. They may have talked about something else in that four minutes, but I really dont know. Lets wait and see.The possible significance of the meeting was outlined in a Facebook post by a Russian sports agent, Andrei Mitkov, who has represented athletes including the Olympic swimmer Yulia Efimova, who was caught doping in the past but was controversially allowed to appear at the Rio Games in 2016. Mitkov conjectured that in the post that Bach and Levitin discussed the rehabilitation of the Russian Olympic Committee and the passage of our athletes at the closing ceremony of the Olympic Games.For 19 days, our Sports newsletter will be all things Olympics. Youll get the best from Pyeongchang: The events to watch, the stories to read and more.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Exactly how Russia could be welcomed back remains murky, however. A three-person panel led by a delegate from Aruba will make recommendations to the I.O.C.s executive board, which will make a decision that could even include a partial lifting of the sanctions against Russia.AdvertisementNicole Hoevertsz, the I.O.C. executive board member leading that panel, said that the group is not excluding any options.We have not reached a final decision yet, we are reaching that moment, Hoevertsz told reporters in Pyeongchang on Thursday. We are looking for the best interests of the I.O.C. and everyone involved.The closing ceremony is different from the opening ceremony, where athletes from individual countries march behind a designated flag-bearer. On Sunday, the flag-bearers will march behind one another, before the remaining athletes enter the stadium in mixed groups.Some athletes who are frustrated by the I.O.C.s handling of the Russia affair have privately discussed avoiding the closing ceremony should the suspension be lifted. Angela Ruggiero, the departing president of the I.O.C.s Athletes Commission, on Thursday issued a reminder about Rule 50, a clause in the Olympic Charter prohibiting athletes from using the Games as a platform for protests, demonstrations or the promotion of political, religious or racial propaganda.Still, the I.O.C. allowed a joint Korean team to march at the Games in an effort to build peace between North and South Korea, two nations that are technically still at war.A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 2018, on Page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Curler Drops Doping Appeal, Muddying a Russian Return.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
A Good Appetite By                     
 MELISSA CLARK
 
FEB. 23, 2018
Once upon a time, way back in the annals of home cooking, there was an era before sheet-pan suppers.In that dark age, even well-equipped kitchens did not have so much as a single professional sheet pan, let alone the two or three deemed indispensable today.Sure, there were deep-sided roasting pans, cookie sheets, and narrow, thin-gauge jellyroll pans — all perfect for their designated purposes.But none has the same functionality and convenience as the humble, heavy-duty, 13-by-18-inch rimmed sheet pan. Not only can you use it to cook an entire meal for four in your oven all at once, it can also help you heat up a dozen bagels simultaneously. It has enough room to cradle your bo ssam or Thanksgiving turkey, and, in a pinch, it can double as a cookie sheet.However, as useful as regular sheet pans are, their capaciousness can be unwieldy when youre dealing with just a halved acorn squash or that quartet of trout fillets youre planning for dinner tonight. Even worse, sheet pans can also be too big to fit into the dishwasher, especially if youve used more than one.AdvertisementAnd this is why Ive made room for yet one more tool in my already overstuffed kitchen cabinets. For home cooks everywhere, its time to get acquainted with the adorable and versatile quarter-sheet pan.Measuring approximately 9 by 12 inches, its the helpful little sibling of your standard-size sheet pans.AdvertisementI can fit four in my oven all at once, which makes them highly flexible when you want to cook several things at the same time. Then I can toss them into the dishwasher, where they scarcely take up more room than my plates.For example, what if you wanted to cook up a wintry dish of paprika-rubbed chicken legs, potatoes and turnips in the oven all at the same time? If you arranged all those ingredients together on one large pan, youd be hard pressed to get the timing just right so the vegetables and chicken all come out evenly cooked and gorgeously caramelized.Separating the chicken and vegetables onto two small pans, however, gives you a lot more control. You can remove each pan from the oven exactly when its contents are perfectly done, without worrying about over- or undercooking.Here, it means pulling out the chicken and letting it rest while cranking up the oven to crisp the potatoes and turnips. Youll have juicy chicken, crunchy potatoes, and a lot less stress getting them there.The same logic can be applied to a sheet-pan supper of sausage Parmesan and garlicky broccoli. Using two pans prevents the sausage juices and tomato sauce from seeping all over the broccoli, making it soggy.Or, in the case of cumin-rubbed pork chops with brussels sprouts and crispy sage leaves, while the ingredients would all taste great cooked together on one large sheet pan — the rendering pork fat mingling gorgeously with the sprouts and sage — it would automatically make the vegetables unfit for any vegetarians at your table. And keeping the meat away from the vegetables encourages the porky edges to crisp, which is always a good thing in a chop.AdvertisementIf you can find the space to store a few of these quarter-sheet pans (maybe stacked inside your larger sheet pans), buying them isnt at all expensive. They cost less than $10 each. Id suggest starting with two, and if you find yourself reaching for them often, you can always pick up a couple more.Whether you use big pans or small, once you immerse yourself in the tasty, convenient world of sheet-pan suppers, you wont want to stop.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Recipes: Roasted Paprika Chicken With Potatoes and Turnips | Sausage Parmesan With Garlicky Broccoli | Cumin-Roasted Pork Chops and Brussels SproutsAnd to drink...To nobodys surprise, sausage parmesan with garlicky broccoli, with its cooked tomato sauce, sausages and cheese, is a natural with red wine, particularly one with lively acidity. Sangiovese is the obvious choice, especially the less expensive wines of Chianti and Montalcino. Why less expensive? Those are the wines that are least likely to taste oaky, a quality that would clash with this dish. Look for Chianti Rufina, Chianti Classico and Rosso di Montalcino. Other good options include Montepulciano dAbruzzo and Etna Rossos. If you would prefer a white, look for a fresh, vibrant wine, likewise not influenced by oak. Options include Orvieto from Umbria, verdicchios and perhaps Soaves and Etna Biancos. Want something bubbly? Try a good Lambrusco from Emilia-Romagna. ERIC ASIMOVFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Transform Your Weeknight Cooking.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Australia Fare By                     
BESHA RODELL

FEB. 1, 2018

CreditPatrick Hamilton for The New York Times        GOLD COAST, Queensland — There are eight Outback Steakhouses in Australia: six in and around Sydney, one in suburban Brisbane and one on the Gold Coast, which is Australias sixth-largest city and a magnet for beach-going tourists. The American chain, which started in Tampa, Fla., in 1988, did not have any locations in Australia until 2001. The outback theme was entirely manufactured by a group of American businessmen, who purposely eschewed travel to this country in order to avoid the creep of authentic influence.Although steakhouses had been popular in Australia in the 1960s, they mostly died out when nouvelle cuisine hit in the 70s. There wasnt much of a steakhouse scene at all until Australian restaurateurs began imitating the American chain steakhouse boom of the 80s and 90s, which, curiously, was spurred in part by the success of Outback.If the founders of Outback had wanted to find a particularly Australian take on the genre, one with the populist appeal required for a successful chain restaurant, they might have done well to visit Cavs Steakhouse on the Gold Coast. Opened in 1984, Cavs is one of only a handful of surviving steakhouses with a true Australian soul.The Gold Coast is a place of constant change and rampant development, its famous beaches now lined with ever-proliferating high-rise condominiums and hotels. But Cavs has remained practically unchanged, and it offers a rare glimpse of Australian style and taste as it stood in the decades before the meta-feedback loop of Outback and Hogs Breath and Sizzler.AdvertisementCavs is owned by Richard Cavill, whose family history is deeply entwined with this part of Queensland. He is the great-grandson of James Freeman Cavill, a champion swimmer who is partially responsible for giving the Gold Coasts most famous beach enclave its name. Surfers Paradise was called Elston when James opened the Surfers Paradise Hotel in 1925, and it was James who successfully lobbied the local council to change Elstons name to Surfers Paradise in 1933.AdvertisementIn 1984 the Cavill family purchased the Beef Barron Restaurant in Labrador, a few miles from the site of the hotel (which by that point had been razed to make way for a shopping mall). The restaurant was gutted and given a distinctive design, which remains to this day and might be most accurately described as bovine hacienda chic.A life-size trio of slightly weather-beaten fiberglass cows once stood outside the restaurant on a three-level podium, Olympic style, but these days they rest with their heads over the white wooden fence, leaning a little to one side, as if slightly intoxicated. Inside, a long butcher case greets diners, showcasing the available steaks. To the back of the huge room, another cow stands over a large chair, wearing a cowboy hat and pursing its alarmingly red lips. You sit in the chair and take a photo with the cow, because of course you do.Drinks are ordered at the table from a wait staff that, at least during the summer, seems to be made up mainly of shy but eager teenagers. I can imagine that working at Cavs is a first-job rite of passage for certain local high schoolers. The bulk of your meal is ordered at the butcher counter: You tell them your table number, the steak you want (pointing is encouraged), the sauce you want (mushroom, chili, pepper or Dianne), the sides you want and anything extra. The most expensive steak is a 350-gram, grass-fed dry-aged eye filet (or filet mignon in American parlance) for $47.90. The larger, more flavorful T-bone is $38.90. Its a lot of meat. And its a bargain.Cavs is serious about its meat, so much so that a retail butcher shop operates in a small building separate from the restaurant. The provenance and aging details of each steak are given; eating and comparing them is a basic lesson in the variances of affordable, quality Australian beef.What Cavs does best is food that is exceedingly familiar and nostalgic to many Australians, particularly those of Anglo or European descent. The sausage platter, which can be ordered as a starter, is made with the same beef used for the steaks, but it tastes like a slightly fancified version of the all-Australian snag, the sausage youll find at every cookout and notoriously on weekends in front of Bunnings Warehouse, the national hardware chain.Steakhouses may have gone out of style, but steaks never did, especially not as the counter meal of choice at the thousands of pubs that form the heart of Australian social life. The steaks at Cavs are better than your average pub steak, but the sauces and sides are familiar. The bread and butter pudding served for dessert with whiskey sauce and vanilla ice cream tastes like pure childhood. This is not a bespoke dessert. There is nothing artisan about it. It would do very well at Outback.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It is not a good idea to order anything at Cavs much beyond those tried-and-true Australian classics. The mac and cheese is kind of wonderful in a gooey, tawdry way, but other forays into Americana are worrisome. Do not, under any circumstances, order the ribs platter. Even the Caesar salad is pushing your luck. A steak, a bread pudding and a picture with the cow are what youre here for.AdvertisementIn 2016, Richard Cavill announced plans to raze the stucco building and put up a gleaming new 13-story mixed-use building. Those plans have yet to come to fruition. But the strongest hunger in this part of Queensland is for real estate, not steaks, and certainly not history. If you want this particular taste of Australia, youd better act fast.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Timess Australia bureau would love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.30 Frank St(Brett Ave)Labrador07 5532 2954cavssteakhouse.comRecommended Dishes Steaks, mac and cheese, and bread pudding.Price $$$ (expensive)Open Daily for lunch and dinner.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access Dining room and restrooms are wheelchair accessible; the restroom does not have a handrail.
                This information was last updated: Feb. 17, 2018 Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Opinion|Sunday ReviewThe city is wilder than we think; thats whats clear from up above.Piccadilly Circus, London, as seen from the top of the Centre Point building.CreditAndrew Testa for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katherine RundellLONDON — It was by climbing London that I fell in love with it.I dont dislike ground-level London. I have grudging affection for its impractical streets and the unhinged ambition written into its architecture. I like the details: the font on the Underground station signs and the hundreds of sea gulls that perch, looking incongruously seaside and skeptical, on the Millennium Bridge each night. I like the self-conscious solemnity of the faces in the National Portrait Gallery and the variegated gray of the Thames. Most of all, and especially now, I cherish its defiantly global heart. But living in any city takes tensed muscles and a carefully calibrated deafness. There are moments when the desire for escape and a wider sky becomes overwhelming, and its then that I go night climbing.I do so because to know a city properly, it helps to touch it and to know the textures and scents of the materials that built it. I have developed strong opinions about brickwork and brick dust and cement and concrete, about the skeleton of London. I have come to love the rich tawny color of the yellow London stock brick, its mellowness stemming from the clay of South East England.I go night climbing because Londons street map in the dark is a majestic thing, a wilderness drawn in light. Unlike the grids of New York and Chicago, it is chaotic. The lights look more like the anarchy of stars than town planning. There are the great gaps, as black as the sky, of Hyde Park and Hampstead Heath.I do it because to stand on the rooftops of a city is to see its secrets.My night climbing is not strictly legal. I slide under fences. I go slowly: My kind of expedition has nothing to do with the bravado of those roof climbers who hang from the edges of chimneys and joists. And I dont have the kind of arm muscles that mean I can do pull-ups with one hand, so the building needs to have scaffolding. (The scaffolding, though, mustnt reach all the way to the top, otherwise the roof will be covered in plastic; there will be no view and it will smell like dust and feet.) I am always a little scared. It is a grotesque whimsy to want to dance on top of a skyscraper.Ive never been caught, but have been told that if I ever am I should be honest but not garrulous. Say only that I wanted to see the city from above, to know what London was hiding. It is true, too, that my freedom from the fear of being caught stems in part from the privileges of my class and race — London is still uneven in those it allows to sin.Not long ago I climbed newly erected scaffolding to the top of Centre Point, a 380-foot skyscraper in the center of the city. I started climbing buildings while in college, clambering up small spires and saluting Oxfords gargoyles, but this was different. It wasnt the first skyscraper I had been up, but it was the tallest, and at its feet is one of the busiest streets in London. Even at half-past one in the morning, Tottenham Court Road still has stragglers: drunkards, shift workers and occasional police officers.It took a long time to get to the top, an hour or more. With a friend I shinned up a lower next-door building, which stood dark and empty, and ran along its rooftop, slipping sideways into its neighbors maze of scaffolding bars. At the top it was the kind of height that makes your skin feel too small for your bones, and your knees feel sentient; there were moments when I snorted the sweat on my upper lip through my nose and out through my mouth — a neat trick if Id been doing it on purpose.But the view made it worth the fear.I saw London stretched out, sharp-edged, dirty, knowing, witty, tough: a place where knowledge has been pooled and mad theories formulated. It makes sense, then, that night should work on the city like an alchemist. It takes what in daylight are chrome and glass and gray, and turns them to gold.Piccadilly Circus looked suddenly ancient, its lights like offerings to small gods. I could see the unromantic air-conditioning fans whirring on the rooftops of buildings whose marble facades made them look as if they wouldnt deign to even admit the existence of weather. The Tate Modern, out across the river, stood like a rook among pawns. Late-night crowds on Oxford Street, which, when among them no sane person could love, were beautiful from above in the way that migrating herds are beautiful.Coming back down to earth felt a very grudging concession to necessity. As it always does. The adrenaline carried me through the journey home, and it was only when I got there that I realized my fists were scraped and bloody and my hair so full of dust that the water in my shower ran the color of coffee. But to climb a building is to change the way you see it, irrevocably. When I look at Centre Point now, I no longer see a blocky piece of Brutalism built in 1966. I see a concrete ladder to the cold night sky.London is wilder than we think; that is what is clear from up above. If we turned it upside down and shook it, what secrets would pour out of its upper reaches, what lights and rats and hidden things?Katherine Rundell is the author, most recently, of the childrens novel The Explorer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy ADAM POPESCUJAN. 25, 2018
Lets play a game: The next time youre sitting among a group of friends or out on a date, measure how much time passes before someone grabs their phone to look at it.How long can you last?If that happens, thats when dinner ends, said Judith Martin, the Washington Post writer whose Miss Manners column is syndicated to 200 newspapers a week.I dont think anyone would dare do that to me, she said.Most of us dont have the authority that comes with 40 years of being Miss Manners, but no matter who you are it can be near impossible to pry anyone away from their mobile playthings. (Harder still: Are your friends or partner more into their smartphone than they are into you?)The problem of looking at our devices nonstop is both social and physiological.The average human head weighs between 10 and 12 pounds, and when we bend our neck to text or check Facebook, the gravitational pull on our head and the stress on our neck increases to as much as 60 pounds of pressure. That common position, pervasive among everyone from paupers to presidents, leads to incremental loss of the curve of the cervical spine. Text neck is becoming a medical issue that countless people suffer from, and the way we hang our heads has other health risks, too, according to a report published last year in The Spine Journal.AdvertisementPosture has been proven to affect mood, behavior and memory, and frequent slouching can make us depressed, according to the National Center for Biotechnology Information. The way we stand affects everything from the amount of energy we have to bone and muscle development, and even the amount of oxygen our lungs can take in. Body language, perceptions of weakness versus power — its all real.AdvertisementAnd the remedy can be ridiculously simple: Just sit up.Social psychologists like Amy Cuddy claim even standing in a confident posture, with your head up and shoulders back, can heighten testosterone and cortisol flow in the brain, preventing much of the above. So, why arent we heeding these signs? It might be simple denial.Some 75 percent of Americans believe their smartphone usage doesnt impact their ability to pay attention in a group setting, according to the Pew Research Center, and about a third of Americans believe that using phones in social settings actually contributes to the conversation.But does it?Etiquette experts and social scientists are adamantly united: Nope.That always-on behavior that smartphones contribute to causes us to remove ourselves from our reality, experts said. And aside from the health consequences, if were head down, our communication skills and manners are slumped, too. But, ironically, that might not be how most of us see ourselves.We think somehow that this antisocial behavior is not going to affect me, said Niobe Way, professor of applied psychology at New York University.Ms. Way studies technologys role in shaping adolescent development. These head-down interactions take us away from the present, no matter what group were in, she said. And its not just a youth problem. Its ingrained, learned, copied and repeated, much of it from mimicking adults. When kids see their parents head down, they emulate that action. The result is a loss of nonverbal cues, which can stunt development.Whats happening more and more is were not talking to our children, Ms. Way said. We put them in front of the tech when theyre young, and when were older, were absorbed in our own tech.Youve seen it: Think of how some parents deal with screaming toddlers. Here kid, take this iPhone and go to town, according to Ms. Way — not, Lets talk this out, what seems to be the problem, son?AdvertisementShe added: We think, Somehow my kids will know whats a good and bad interaction, theyll have empathy. But when I go upstairs into my sons room and seven teens are all looking at their phones, none of them saying a word, theres all sorts of disengagement happening. Its not Facebook thats the problem, its how were using Facebook.A study in 2010 found that adolescents ages 8 to 18 spent more than 7.5 hours a day consuming media. Since then, our digital addictions have continued to, in some ways, define our lives: In 2015, the Pew Research Center reported that 24 percent of teenagers are almost constantly online.Adults arent any better: Most adults spend 10 hours a day or more consuming electronic media, according to a Nielsens Total Audience Report from last year.A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The National Safety Council reports cellphone use makes drivers more accident prone than drunk driving, causing 1.6 million crashes annually, mostly from young people ages 18 to 20. One out of four accidents in the United States are caused by texting and talking on the phone while driving.Mobile devices are the mother of inattentional blindness, said Henry Alford, the author of Would It Kill You to Stop Doing That: A Modern Guide to Manners. Thats the state of monomaniacal obliviousness that overcomes you when youre absorbed in an activity to the exclusion of everything else.The social scientist Sherry Turkle analyzed 30 years of family interactions in her book Alone Together: Why We Expect More From Technology and Less From Each Other. She found that children now compete with their parents devices for attention, resulting in a generation afraid of the spontaneity of a phone call or face-to-face interaction. Eye contact now seems to be optional, Dr. Turkle suggests, and sensory overload can often mean our feelings are constantly anesthetized.Researchers at the University of Michigan claim empathy levels have plummeted while narcissism is skyrocketing, with emotional development, confidence and health all affected when we tuck our chins in and let our heads hang like human ostriches.Facebooks former president, Sean Parker, recently said the platform was designed to be addictive and to consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible, which he characterized as boosting our self-esteem, ever-present in the dopamine hit of likes.AdvertisementIt literally changes your relationship with society, with each other, he said. It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what its doing to our childrens brains.That said: Youre probably reading this story on a mobile device right now. And thats O.K.! (As long as youre not behind the wheel.) Were not here to tell you to throw away your iPhone and abandon digital media. But like many addictions, admitting a problem is the first step to treatment. And, mercifully, the fix isnt anti-tech — its pro-conversation, according to Dr. Turkle.Digital detoxes have never been so popular, but theyre no cure-all, and realistically, there simply isnt a black-and-white fix.The simplest answer for all of us is biblical: Do unto others — and maybe do it without clutching your smartphone. Next time youre in the checkout lane or stopped at a red light, look around. How many people are really there with you?Actual human beings, in the flesh, take precedence, Ms. Martin chided. To ignore people youre with is rude, whether you ignore them for virtual friends or distant friends by snubbing them.It sounds so obvious it almost borders on stupid. But like Dr. Turkles hope of building dialogue, not denigrating the digerati, its an obvious dialogue were not having enough of.Mr. Alford, who used to write a monthly manners column for The New York Times, described the issue as a monomaniacal obliviousness of being absorbed in an activity to the exclusion of the rest of the world.To treat the person standing in front of you as secondary to your phone, is usually, as the kids say, a micro-aggression, he said.AdvertisementMany Silicon Valley pundits go to war when anyone so much as suggests that techs merits arent uniformly positive. But in light of the brutal schoolyard that social media has become, that approach now appears moot.Young or old, were all a generation of literal test cases. Etiquette, manners, body language, the way we respond, interact and even look is changing. Were missing a whole life happening a mere 90 degrees above our smartphones. Start looking up.Never be the first person in the group to whip out his phone, Mr. Alford said. Dont be Patient Zero.Correction 1/30/2018: An earlier version of this article misstated the number of car accidents attributed to the use of smartphones. About one quarter of car accidents in the United States are caused by texting and talking on the phone while driving, not solely by texting.Adam Popescu is a writer living in Los Angeles who contributes frequently to the Times. He can be reached on Twitter at @adampopescuWere interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ADAM POPESCUJAN. 25, 2018
Lets play a game: The next time youre sitting among a group of friends or out on a date, measure how much time passes before someone grabs their phone to look at it.How long can you last?If that happens, thats when dinner ends, said Judith Martin, the Washington Post writer whose Miss Manners column is syndicated to 200 newspapers a week.I dont think anyone would dare do that to me, she said.Most of us dont have the authority that comes with 40 years of being Miss Manners, but no matter who you are it can be near impossible to pry anyone away from their mobile playthings. (Harder still: Are your friends or partner more into their smartphone than they are into you?)The problem of looking at our devices nonstop is both social and physiological.The average human head weighs between 10 and 12 pounds, and when we bend our neck to text or check Facebook, the gravitational pull on our head and the stress on our neck increases to as much as 60 pounds of pressure. That common position, pervasive among everyone from paupers to presidents, leads to incremental loss of the curve of the cervical spine. Text neck is becoming a medical issue that countless people suffer from, and the way we hang our heads has other health risks, too, according to a report published last year in The Spine Journal.AdvertisementPosture has been proven to affect mood, behavior and memory, and frequent slouching can make us depressed, according to the National Center for Biotechnology Information. The way we stand affects everything from the amount of energy we have to bone and muscle development, and even the amount of oxygen our lungs can take in. Body language, perceptions of weakness versus power — its all real.AdvertisementAnd the remedy can be ridiculously simple: Just sit up.Social psychologists like Amy Cuddy claim even standing in a confident posture, with your head up and shoulders back, can heighten testosterone and cortisol flow in the brain, preventing much of the above. So, why arent we heeding these signs? It might be simple denial.Some 75 percent of Americans believe their smartphone usage doesnt impact their ability to pay attention in a group setting, according to the Pew Research Center, and about a third of Americans believe that using phones in social settings actually contributes to the conversation.But does it?Etiquette experts and social scientists are adamantly united: Nope.That always-on behavior that smartphones contribute to causes us to remove ourselves from our reality, experts said. And aside from the health consequences, if were head down, our communication skills and manners are slumped, too. But, ironically, that might not be how most of us see ourselves.We think somehow that this antisocial behavior is not going to affect me, said Niobe Way, professor of applied psychology at New York University.Ms. Way studies technologys role in shaping adolescent development. These head-down interactions take us away from the present, no matter what group were in, she said. And its not just a youth problem. Its ingrained, learned, copied and repeated, much of it from mimicking adults. When kids see their parents head down, they emulate that action. The result is a loss of nonverbal cues, which can stunt development.Whats happening more and more is were not talking to our children, Ms. Way said. We put them in front of the tech when theyre young, and when were older, were absorbed in our own tech.Youve seen it: Think of how some parents deal with screaming toddlers. Here kid, take this iPhone and go to town, according to Ms. Way — not, Lets talk this out, what seems to be the problem, son?AdvertisementShe added: We think, Somehow my kids will know whats a good and bad interaction, theyll have empathy. But when I go upstairs into my sons room and seven teens are all looking at their phones, none of them saying a word, theres all sorts of disengagement happening. Its not Facebook thats the problem, its how were using Facebook.A study in 2010 found that adolescents ages 8 to 18 spent more than 7.5 hours a day consuming media. Since then, our digital addictions have continued to, in some ways, define our lives: In 2015, the Pew Research Center reported that 24 percent of teenagers are almost constantly online.Adults arent any better: Most adults spend 10 hours a day or more consuming electronic media, according to a Nielsens Total Audience Report from last year.A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The National Safety Council reports cellphone use makes drivers more accident prone than drunk driving, causing 1.6 million crashes annually, mostly from young people ages 18 to 20. One out of four accidents in the United States are caused by texting and talking on the phone while driving.Mobile devices are the mother of inattentional blindness, said Henry Alford, the author of Would It Kill You to Stop Doing That: A Modern Guide to Manners. Thats the state of monomaniacal obliviousness that overcomes you when youre absorbed in an activity to the exclusion of everything else.The social scientist Sherry Turkle analyzed 30 years of family interactions in her book Alone Together: Why We Expect More From Technology and Less From Each Other. She found that children now compete with their parents devices for attention, resulting in a generation afraid of the spontaneity of a phone call or face-to-face interaction. Eye contact now seems to be optional, Dr. Turkle suggests, and sensory overload can often mean our feelings are constantly anesthetized.Researchers at the University of Michigan claim empathy levels have plummeted while narcissism is skyrocketing, with emotional development, confidence and health all affected when we tuck our chins in and let our heads hang like human ostriches.Facebooks former president, Sean Parker, recently said the platform was designed to be addictive and to consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible, which he characterized as boosting our self-esteem, ever-present in the dopamine hit of likes.AdvertisementIt literally changes your relationship with society, with each other, he said. It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what its doing to our childrens brains.That said: Youre probably reading this story on a mobile device right now. And thats O.K.! (As long as youre not behind the wheel.) Were not here to tell you to throw away your iPhone and abandon digital media. But like many addictions, admitting a problem is the first step to treatment. And, mercifully, the fix isnt anti-tech — its pro-conversation, according to Dr. Turkle.Digital detoxes have never been so popular, but theyre no cure-all, and realistically, there simply isnt a black-and-white fix.The simplest answer for all of us is biblical: Do unto others — and maybe do it without clutching your smartphone. Next time youre in the checkout lane or stopped at a red light, look around. How many people are really there with you?Actual human beings, in the flesh, take precedence, Ms. Martin chided. To ignore people youre with is rude, whether you ignore them for virtual friends or distant friends by snubbing them.It sounds so obvious it almost borders on stupid. But like Dr. Turkles hope of building dialogue, not denigrating the digerati, its an obvious dialogue were not having enough of.Mr. Alford, who used to write a monthly manners column for The New York Times, described the issue as a monomaniacal obliviousness of being absorbed in an activity to the exclusion of the rest of the world.To treat the person standing in front of you as secondary to your phone, is usually, as the kids say, a micro-aggression, he said.AdvertisementMany Silicon Valley pundits go to war when anyone so much as suggests that techs merits arent uniformly positive. But in light of the brutal schoolyard that social media has become, that approach now appears moot.Young or old, were all a generation of literal test cases. Etiquette, manners, body language, the way we respond, interact and even look is changing. Were missing a whole life happening a mere 90 degrees above our smartphones. Start looking up.Never be the first person in the group to whip out his phone, Mr. Alford said. Dont be Patient Zero.Correction 1/30/2018: An earlier version of this article misstated the number of car accidents attributed to the use of smartphones. About one quarter of car accidents in the United States are caused by texting and talking on the phone while driving, not solely by texting.Adam Popescu is a writer living in Los Angeles who contributes frequently to the Times. He can be reached on Twitter at @adampopescuWere interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Hungry City By                     
LIGAYA MISHAN

FEB. 22, 2018

CreditSasha Maslov for The New York Times        At Belarussian Xata in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, birch sap comes in a tall carafe, unclouded and pure. The taste is close to water, only water as if just rained down and sipped from a blossom, with a delicate, attenuated sweetness: what a dryad might live on.Two-fifths of the landlocked former Soviet republic of Belarus is cloaked in woods, including remnants of the great forest that rose from the European Plain 10,000 years ago. The Belarusians have drunk birch sap for centuries. Now some in the United States extol the drink as a rival to coconut water, for its supposed restorative powers. We are late to the party.Certainly there is an odd magic at work at Belarussian Xata, where, as the meal progresses, the food grows increasingly rich — a kind of homage to hyperphagia, the fattening period before hibernation — yet the spirit stays light. It could be the birch sap or the horseradish-spiked vodka, scouring tongue and soul; the postcard-pretty tables draped with rushnyky, ceremonial embroidered linen towels that follow Belarusians from birth to death, and surrounded by wooden fences with upturned pitchers hanging from the posts; or a shyly charming waiter who whispers, of one particular dish: Of course my mothers is better.To begin: zakuski, small plates that are not so small. Hog ears are fried into strips, with more crunch than fat. A sushi board becomes a platform for open-faced herring sandwiches, built not on bread but rounds of potato, cucumber and hard-boiled egg; the brininess is tempered by sour cream and a confetti of red onion.AdvertisementThe chef, Ilya Frolov, was born in Minsk, the Belarusian capital. He makes honorable, old-country draniki, cakes of grated potato, bound by egg and bronzed in a pan. They might be interleaved with slices of pork neck under a mantle of melted cheese, but are just as good with nothing but sour cream. Kolduni start with the same potato batter, only inside is buried treasure — meat or mushrooms, in a creamy lather.AdvertisementFanned out on a platter are swirled bouquets of salo (cured fatback), in three varieties: Belarusian, plush and quick to liquid on the tongue; smoked, its flavor shading toward aged Cheddar; and Hungarian, aflutter with paprika. Stalks of green onion, cherry tomatoes and a broken-down head of garlic crowd around, with splendidly fuming potatoes in a skillet alongside. (A more modest, singular helping of salo is accompanied by batons of rye bread as fat as French fries, crisped in butter, rubbed with garlic and tumbled into a cone of newspaper.)In borscht, the sweetness of the beets is kept in check by salty nubs of pork and beef. Yellow split pea soup, soothing and mild, lands on the table with a pork rib jutting out, the hilt thoughtfully wrapped in foil and the meat smoke incarnate.The main courses bring more pork. For machanka, hunks of rib, shoulder and a peasant-style sausage made in-house are left to commune in a pot for hours and presented with draniki or kerchiefs of blini, the better to soak up the stew. Neat bundles of cabbage divulge pork, beef and carrots, gently sweet. A monumental pork knuckle is braised and then baked until the fat wobbles off its flanks, calling to mind a slow avalanche.The first Belarussian Xata opened in 2012 in the Basmanny District of Moscow, a few blocks from the Belarusian Embassy. Its Brooklyn outpost followed this past September, taking over a two-story building once home to Cafe Glechik, a Ukrainian spot. Marat Novikov, a businessman from Minsk who brought his family to Brooklyn in 1989, as the Soviet Union was reeling from internal unrest, runs both restaurants with the help of his son, Andrey; his daughter, Olga; and her husband, Steve Palanker, a native of Moldova.A few recipes come from Mr. Novikovs mother, like a perfect dessert of little orbs of tangy yogurt cheese, flecked with poppy seeds and simmered in sour cream. Room, too, should be made for sour cherry dumplings in crimson-stained skins and a trompe-loeil chocolate salami conjured out of crushed biscuits, cocoa, hazelnuts and prunes.This is plenty, to be embraced and shared. A night at Belarussian Xata can feel as though youve crashed a dozen parties at once, all in full swing. One night, a group of women lingered for hours in a corner, deep in talk and growly laughter; only around 10 p.m. did their first zakuski arrive. They were in no hurry. They knew the value of time.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.1655 Sheepshead Bay Road(Voorhies Avenue)Sheepshead Bay718-332-4292bel-xata.comRecommended Dishes Salo platter; herring village style; borscht; pea soup with smoked rib; draniki with sour cream; kolduni with mushrooms; machanka; stuffed cabbage; mini cheese balls; chocolate rulyada; sour cherry dumplings.Price $$ (moderate)Open Daily for lunch and dinner.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access The first-floor dining room is on the same level as the sidewalk; the second-floor dining room is accessible via elevator. Restrooms are equipped with a handrail.
                This information was last updated: Feb. 22, 2018 A version of this review appears in print on February 28, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Working Magic With Hearty and Light.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SUHASINI RAJ and KAI SCHULTZFEB. 5, 2018
KASGANJ, India — Rahul Upadhyay, a wiry journalist with a shock of black hair, was at home when he received news of his death.During celebrations on Indias Republic Day, Jan. 26, a clash broke out between Hindus and Muslims in the city of Kasganj. Schools, shops and a mosque were damaged. One person was killed; another nearly had his eye gouged out.Mr. Upadhyay, 24, stayed away from the violence, bunkering down inside his home in a nearby village. But the following evening, a friend called to share a peculiar bit of news: You have been elevated to being a martyr.In the span of a few hours, messages on WhatsApp and Facebook mourning martyr Rahul, and saying he had been killed in clashes, went viral across Uttar Pradesh State, which includes Kasganj.AdvertisementCandlelight vigils paying respect to Mr. Upadhyay, who is Hindu, lit up the streets of seven districts, some with the participation of local politicians.By the time Mr. Upadhyay found out, there was little he could do: The riots had become so bad in Kasganj that the authorities shut down the internet.No media house or politician bothered to visit my place or call me first to confirm that I was indeed dead, he said. The marketplace of rumors had heated up beyond control.Kasganj was not always like this. For much of its history, Muslims and Hindus coexisted peacefully in this dusty city about 100 miles east of New Delhi. As the price of land shot up in the area, the city prospered. Now, rows of mustard-colored crops, markers of the regions agrarian roots, frame Honda dealerships catering to a population eager to trade bicycles for motorbikes.In the years since Prime Minister Narendra Modis Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party rose to power in 2014, violent outbreaks between Hindus and Muslims have become more common in some pockets of India.AdvertisementBut locals said the energy did not change in Kasganj until last year, when Yogi Adityanath, a firebrand politician with ties to far-right Hindu nationalist groups, was chosen as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, home to over 200 million people.The clashes began with a flag. On Jan. 26, a group of Muslims gathered in an open square in Kasganj, unstacking rows of red plastic chairs and preparing to hoist a flag into the air to celebrate Republic Day, which marks the enactment of Indias constitution in 1950.Around the same time, dozens of men on motorbikes affiliated with a far-right Hindu student group approached the assembly, asking that the Muslims move the chairs so they could pass. Accounts of what happened next vary.According to a police report filed by Sushil Gupta, the father of Abhishek Gupta, the man who was actually killed, a group of Muslims began taunting the Hindus, shouting Long Live Pakistan, and telling them that they would have to chant Hail Pakistan if they wanted to pass.Shamsul Arafeen, 70, a Muslim tailor who was part of the crowd, remembered the encounter differently, describing a big mob of Hindus who demanded that the Muslims move the chairs before boiling the argument down to religion. Others said the Hindus told the Muslims to go back to Pakistan.They started abusing us, saying, If you want to live in Hindustan, you must chant Hail Sita and Ram, Mr. Arafeen said, using another name for India and referring to two Hindu gods.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The confrontation became physical soon afterward, with rioters from both sides throwing stones at each other and burning shops to the ground. Videos of the confrontations spread rapidly. The authorities shut down internet service in the area for hours.By the end of the clashes, which stretched over a week, over 100 people had been arrested, both Hindu and Muslim. Mohar Singh Tomar, an investigating officer with Kasganjs police force, said it was unclear who started the clashes, brushing aside suggestions that either religious group had received unfair treatment.Purnendra Pratap Singh Solanki, the district president of the Bharatiya Janata Party, took a harder line, characterizing the confrontation as a preplanned conspiracy by a growing Muslim population to target Hindus.AdvertisementWhat is very problematic for us is that Muslims are ruled by their religion first, he said. They consider themselves Muslims before Indians, whereas the Hindus consider themselves Indians first and then Hindus.The solution to such problems is to control their population, Mr. Solanki added. Their religious education at the madrassas must be combined with nationalism, peppered with nationalism. The problem is they dont want to get educated at all.Reacting to the violence in Kasganj, R. V. Singh, the district magistrate in Bareilly, also in Uttar Pradesh, described a recent episode involving a Hindu march in a village in his district.A strange trend has started of carrying out processions through Muslim localities and raising anti-Pakistan slogans, he wrote in a Facebook post that was subsequently deleted after he faced pressure from the state government. Why? Are these people from Pakistan?At the same time, the always rocky relationship between Hindu-majority India and Muslim-majority Pakistan has notably worsened in recent months.Around Kasganj, many people said they were terrified to leave their homes and return to work.Our children are sleeping on hungry stomachs, said Mohammad Shadab, 24, who works in a soap factory. The kind of fear in the community has never been felt before.As for Mr. Upadhyay, he still has not figured out who first reported his death or why he had been singled out. Over the last weekend in January, he fielded over 400 calls from people asking if he had died. My mother had to serve endless cups of tea to visitors and convince them that I was alive, he said.Eventually, Mr. Upadhyay figured that if he could not control social media, he might as well participate.AdvertisementI am Rahul Upadhyay, he said in a recorded message sent out into cyberspace. I am well and I have not even received a scratch.Still, he said, the damage was done. Hundreds of miles away, in the city of Gorakhpur, posters with his photograph had already been distributed.Near his face was a warning: We will take revenge for the death of martyr Rahul Upadhyay.Suhasini Raj reported from Kasganj, and Kai Schultz from New Delhi.Follow Suhasini Raj and Kai Schultz on Twitter: @suhasiniraj and @Kai_Schultz.A version of this article appears in print on February 6, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: After a Religious Clash in India, Rumors Create a False Martyr.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Amy BarnhorstSACRAMENTO — A few years ago, the police brought a 21-year-old man into the crisis unit where I work as an emergency psychiatrist. His parents had called the police after seeing postings on his Facebook page that praised the Columbine shooters, referred to imminent death and destruction at his community college and promised his own Day of Retribution. His brother reported to the police that he had recently purchased a gun.When I interviewed the patient, he denied all of this. He had no history of mental illness and said he didnt want or need any treatment. My job was to evaluate whether he met the criteria to be involuntarily admitted to a psychiatric hospital.Each mass shooting reignites a debate about what causes this type of violence and how it can be prevented. Those who oppose further restrictions on gun ownership often set their sights on the mental health care system. Shouldnt psychiatrists be able to identify as dangerous someone like Nikolas Cruz, the young man charged in the school shooting last week in Florida, who scared his classmates, hurt animals and left menacing online posts?Mr. Cruz had suffered from depression and was getting counseling at one point. He was also evaluated by emergency mental health workers in 2016, but they decided not to hospitalize him. Why, some critics are demanding, didnt he receive proper treatment? And cant we just stop angry, unstable young men like him from buying firearms?Its much harder than it sounds.The mental health system doesnt identify most of these people because they dont come in to get care. And even if they do, laws designed to preserve the civil liberties of people with mental illness place limits on what treatments can be imposed against a persons will.Here in California, as in most states, patients must be a danger to themselves or others because of mental illness before they can be involuntarily admitted to a psychiatric hospital. This is a mechanism for getting people into treatment when they are too deep in the throes of their illness to understand that they need it. It allowed me to hospitalize a woman who tried to choke her mother because she was convinced her family had been replaced with impostors, and a man who had sent threatening letters to his boss because he believed she had implanted a microchip in his brain.But the young man who had written about shooting his classmates was calm, cooperative and polite. The posts, he insisted, were nothing more than online braggadocio. He denied being suicidal or homicidal; he had never heard voices or gotten strange messages from the television. He admitted to having been bullied and was resentful of classmates who seemed to have more thriving social and romantic lives. But he adamantly denied he would be violent toward them.What options did I have? It was clear to me that he did not have a psychiatric illness that would justify an involuntary hospitalization, but I was reluctant to release this man whose story echoed that of so many mass shooters.I could fudge it a little, claiming to need more time for observation, and admit him to the hospital anyway. But within the week he would go before a hearing officer to contest being held against his will. The hearing officer would probably come to the same conclusion I had, that he was not dangerous because of a mental illness, and he would be free to go. The only advantage of this version of events would be that the order to release the man who might be the next mass shooter would not be signed with my pen.Maybe the hearing officer would share my trepidation and commit him out of fear of the alternative. Then the hospital would have 14 more days to treat him.The psychiatrist responsible for his care would know how to treat delusions, paranoia, mania, suicidal impulses, self-injurious behaviors, auditory hallucinations and catatonia. But there are no reliable cures for insecurity, resentment, entitlement and hatred.The one concrete benefit of officially committing him would be that he could be prohibited from buying a gun from any federally licensed retailer. Of course, this would do nothing about any guns and ammunition he may already have amassed. Nor would it deter him from getting guns from private-party sales, which are exempt from background checks in many states.I ended up admitting this patient, and he was released by the hearing officer two days later. He never took any medication, never reached the threshold for a federal firearm prohibition and left the hospital in the same state he arrived in. Like so many of his peers, he will not seek out therapy for the longstanding personality traits that seem to predispose him to violence and rage, and there is no way to impose treatment upon him.The reason the mental health system fails to prevent mass shootings is that mental illness is rarely the cause of such violence. Even if all potential mass shooters did get psychiatric care, there is no reliable cure for angry young men who harbor violent fantasies. And the laws intended to stop the mentally ill from buying guns are too narrow and easily sidestepped; people like Nikolas Cruz and my patient are unlikely to qualify.Instead of hoping that imposing mental health treatment on everyone who shows red flags will put an end to mass shootings, we should focus on ways to put some distance between these young men and their guns.Amy Barnhorst is the vice chairwoman of community psychiatry at the University of California, Davis.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCompiled by ANDREA KANNAPELLFEB. 20, 2018
New York Times reporters and editors are highlighting great stories from around the web. You can receive What Were Reading by email, and let us know how you like it at wwr@nytimes.com.From The BBC: I knew Asma Jahangir well. She was a titan of Pakistans human rights movement, and a truly inspirational person. This appreciation by the writer Mohamed Hanif in Dawn is great. Then theres this piece in The Atlantic and this one in The Guardian. But one of my favorite tributes was this BBC interview from 2010, where she speaks very frankly about her work and even her marriage. There were times Ive been scared, there were times Ive cried … But does that mean you give up in the face of brute force? No. Never. — Declan Walsh, Cairo bureau chief_____From The Washington Post: Wise words from a great editor. Marty Barons speech at Oxford University concluded: We have been reminded over many months now that, as journalists, we need more than a soul. We also need a spine. I am pleased to report that we have that, too. — Dean Baquet, executive editor_____From Wired: For most of his professional life, Mark Zuckerberg has been praised for accomplishing what few other technology pioneers have been able to do: Connect much of the worlds population through his creation, Facebook. Now, in the wake of revelations that Facebooks lack of oversight led to foreign manipulation of Americans at a massive scale, Mr. Zuckerberg has spent the better part of two years on his heels as the public, press and even his own employees reckon with the fallout his creation has wrought. This fantastic piece from Nick Thompson and Fred Vogelstein takes us inside the companys struggle to fix what may be its most intractable problem yet. — Mike Isaac, technology reporterAdvertisement_____From New York Magazine: People know Jill Abramson as the first woman to run The New York Times, but might forget that in an earlier period of her life she had been a hard-nosed, rigorous reporter for The Wall Street Journal. Thats where she covered the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Clarence Thomas, and their focus on whether he had sexually harassed his assistant, Anita Hill. We all know how that turned out. Now in the light of the #MeToo movement, Ms. Abramson re-examines the evidence and does additional reporting, concluding that Mr. Thomas lied, repeatedly and under oath, and concludes that its time to raise the possibility of impeachment. — John Schwartz, climate change reporterAdvertisement_____From Instagram: Sometimes, all I want is five seconds to look at something fun, away from the news and chaos of daily life. And thats where these alpacas in the north of England come in. I thumb over to Instagram and pull up their account, and without fail they have been off having muddy adventures with their fluffy hair. I imagine the lives of the farmers who care for them, and I smile. Thank you, alpacas. Thank you, farmers. — Erin McCann, senior staff editor_____From Hong Kong Free Press: Heres a look at how Hong Kong, the former British colony that was once a safe haven for Chinese dissidents, has incrementally lost its freedoms in recent years. When I moved to the territory seven years ago, books with political gossip on the Communist Party leadership and more serious work by its critics were everywhere. Now, such books are much harder to find. — Patrick Boehler, briefings team_____From VQR (Virginia Quarterly Review): This wonderful piece by Leslie Jamison is about a place in Zagreb called the Museum of Broken Relationships, which sounds both amazing and otherworldly. But its also a meditation on place, things and, most of all, loss and its legacies. One line, about a breakup Ms. Jamison experienced herself, that will particularly stay with me: The sadness itself became a kind of anchor, something I needed more than Id ever needed him. — Dan Saltzstein, senior staff editor, Travel_____From Bon Appétit: A lovely exploration of the complicated relationship some of us have with our sourdough starters, from Sophie Lucido Johnson. Read it and go feed yours, or start your own. — Sam Sifton, food editorWere interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUMFEB. 20, 2018
The teenagers of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., who a week ago lost 17 of their classmates and school staff members in a mass shooting, have emerged as passionate advocates for reform, speaking openly of their anger in the hope of forcing a reckoning on guns.But in certain right-wing corners of the web — and, increasingly, from more mainstream voices like Rush Limbaugh and a commentator on CNN — the students are being portrayed not as grief-ridden survivors but as pawns and conspiracists intent on exploiting a tragedy to undermine the nations laws.In these baseless accounts, which by Tuesday had spread rapidly on social media, the students are described as crisis actors, who travel to the sites of shootings to instigate fury against guns. Or they are called F.B.I. plants, defending the bureau for its failure to catch the shooter. They have been portrayed as puppets being coached and manipulated by the Democratic Party, gun control activists, the so-called antifa movement and the left-wing billionaire George Soros.The theories are far-fetched. But they are finding a broad and prominent audience online. On Tuesday, the presidents son Donald J. Trump Jr. liked a pair of tweets that accused David Hogg, a 17-year-old who is among the most outspoken of the Parkland students, of criticizing the Trump administration in an effort to protect his father, whom Mr. Hogg has described as a retired F.B.I. agent.AdvertisementMr. Hogg, the high schools student news director, has become a sensation among many liberals for his polished and compelling television interviews, in which he has called on lawmakers to enact tougher restrictions on guns. Just as quickly, Mr. Hogg attracted the disdain of right-wing provocateurs like The Gateway Pundit, a fringe website that gained prominence in 2016 for pushing conspiracies about voter fraud and Hillary Clinton.AdvertisementIn written posts and YouTube videos — one of which had more than 100,000 views as of Tuesday night — Gateway Pundit has argued that Mr. Hogg had been coached on what to say during his interviews. The notion that Mr. Hogg is merely protecting his father dovetails with a broader right-wing trope, that liberal forces in the F.B.I. are trying to undermine President Trump and his pro-Second Amendment supporters.Others offered more sweeping condemnations. Alex Jones, the conspiracy theorist behind the site Infowars, suggested that the mass shooting was a false flag orchestrated by anti-gun groups. Mr. Limbaugh, on his radio program, said of the student activists on Monday: Everything theyre doing is right out of the Democrat Partys various playbooks. It has the same enemies: the N.R.A. and guns.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.By Tuesday, that argument had migrated to CNN. In an on-air appearance, Jack Kingston, a former United States representative from Georgia and a regular CNN commentator, asked, Do we really think — and I say this sincerely — do we really think 17-year-olds on their own are going to plan a nationwide rally? (He was quickly rebuked by the anchor Alyson Camerota.)Conspiracies, wild and raw online, are often pasteurized on their way into the mainstream. A subtler version of the theory appeared Tuesday on the website of Bill OReilly, the ousted Fox News host. Mr. OReilly stopped short of saying the students had been planted by anti-Trump forces. But, he wrote: The national press believes it is their job to destroy the Trump administration by any means necessary. So if the media has to use kids to do that, theyll use kids.Some of those who have been spreading the conspiracies are facing consequences.Benjamin Kelly, an aide to a Florida state representative, Shawn Harrison, emailed a Tampa Bay Times reporter on Tuesday accusing Mr. Hogg and a classmate, Emma Gonzalez, of being actors that travel to the sites of crises.Mr. Kelly was soon fired.I made a mistake whereas I tried to inform a reporter of information relating to his story regarding a school shooting, Mr. Kelly tweeted. I meant no disrespect to the students or parents of Parkland. His boss, Mr. Harrison, said on Twitter that he was appalled by Mr. Kellys remarks.But by Tuesday evening, a new conspiracy was dominating Gateway Pundits home page. Soros-Linked Organizers of Womens March Selected Anti-Trump Kids to Be Face of Parkland Tragedy, read the headline. Within an hour, it had been shared on Facebook more than 150 times.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Dubious Theories on Shooting In Florida Find an Audience.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Tim WuConvenience is the most underestimated and least understood force in the world today. As a driver of human decisions, it may not offer the illicit thrill of Freuds unconscious sexual desires or the mathematical elegance of the economists incentives. Convenience is boring. But boring is not the same thing as trivial.In the developed nations of the 21st century, convenience — that is, more efficient and easier ways of doing personal tasks — has emerged as perhaps the most powerful force shaping our individual lives and our economies. This is particularly true in America, where, despite all the paeans to freedom and individuality, one sometimes wonders whether convenience is in fact the supreme value.As Evan Williams, a co-founder of Twitter, recently put it, Convenience decides everything. Convenience seems to make our decisions for us, trumping what we like to imagine are our true preferences. (I prefer to brew my coffee, but Starbucks instant is so convenient I hardly ever do what I prefer.) Easy is better, easiest is best.Convenience has the ability to make other options unthinkable. Once you have used a washing machine, laundering clothes by hand seems irrational, even if it might be cheaper. After you have experienced streaming television, waiting to see a show at a prescribed hour seems silly, even a little undignified. To resist convenience — not to own a cellphone, not to use Google — has come to require a special kind of dedication that is often taken for eccentricity, if not fanaticism.For all its influence as a shaper of individual decisions, the greater power of convenience may arise from decisions made in aggregate, where it is doing so much to structure the modern economy. Particularly in tech-related industries, the battle for convenience is the battle for industry dominance.Americans say they prize competition, a proliferation of choices, the little guy. Yet our taste for convenience begets more convenience, through a combination of the economics of scale and the power of habit. The easier it is to use Amazon, the more powerful Amazon becomes — and thus the easier it becomes to use Amazon. Convenience and monopoly seem to be natural bedfellows.Given the growth of convenience — as an ideal, as a value, as a way of life — it is worth asking what our fixation with it is doing to us and to our country. I dont want to suggest that convenience is a force for evil. Making things easier isnt wicked. On the contrary, it often opens up possibilities that once seemed too onerous to contemplate, and it typically makes life less arduous, especially for those most vulnerable to lifes drudgeries.But we err in presuming convenience is always good, for it has a complex relationship with other ideals that we hold dear. Though understood and promoted as an instrument of liberation, convenience has a dark side. With its promise of smooth, effortless efficiency, it threatens to erase the sort of struggles and challenges that help give meaning to life. Created to free us, it can become a constraint on what we are willing to do, and thus in a subtle way it can enslave us.It would be perverse to embrace inconvenience as a general rule. But when we let convenience decide everything, we surrender too much.Convenience as we now know it is a product of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when labor-saving devices for the home were invented and marketed. Milestones include the invention of the first convenience foods, such as canned pork and beans and Quaker Quick Oats; the first electric clothes-washing machines; cleaning products like Old Dutch scouring powder; and other marvels including the electric vacuum cleaner, instant cake mix and the microwave oven.Convenience was the household version of another late-19th-century idea, industrial efficiency, and its accompanying scientific management. It represented the adaptation of the ethos of the factory to domestic life.However mundane it seems now, convenience, the great liberator of humankind from labor, was a utopian ideal. By saving time and eliminating drudgery, it would create the possibility of leisure. And with leisure would come the possibility of devoting time to learning, hobbies or whatever else might really matter to us. Convenience would make available to the general population the kind of freedom for self-cultivation once available only to the aristocracy. In this way convenience would also be the great leveler.This idea — convenience as liberation — could be intoxicating. Its headiest depictions are in the science fiction and futurist imaginings of the mid-20th century. From serious magazines like Popular Mechanics and from goofy entertainments like The Jetsons we learned that life in the future would be perfectly convenient. Food would be prepared with the push of a button. Moving sidewalks would do away with the annoyance of walking. Clothes would clean themselves or perhaps self-destruct after a days wearing. The end of the struggle for existence could at last be contemplated.The dream of convenience is premised on the nightmare of physical work. But is physical work always a nightmare? Do we really want to be emancipated from all of it? Perhaps our humanity is sometimes expressed in inconvenient actions and time-consuming pursuits. Perhaps this is why, with every advance of convenience, there have always been those who resist it. They resist out of stubbornness, yes (and because they have the luxury to do so), but also because they see a threat to their sense of who they are, to their feeling of control over things that matter to them.By the late 1960s, the first convenience revolution had begun to sputter. The prospect of total convenience no longer seemed like societys greatest aspiration. Convenience meant conformity. The counterculture was about peoples need to express themselves, to fulfill their individual potential, to live in harmony with nature rather than constantly seeking to overcome its nuisances. Playing the guitar was not convenient. Neither was growing ones own vegetables or fixing ones own motorcycle. But such things were seen to have value nevertheless — or rather, as a result. People were looking for individuality again.Perhaps it was inevitable, then, that the second wave of convenience technologies — the period we are living in — would co-opt this ideal. It would conveniencize individuality.You might date the beginning of this period to the advent of the Sony Walkman in 1979. With the Walkman we can see a subtle but fundamental shift in the ideology of convenience. If the first convenience revolution promised to make life and work easier for you, the second promised to make it easier to be you. The new technologies were catalysts of selfhood. They conferred efficiency on self-expression.Consider the man of the early 1980s, strolling down the street with his Walkman and earphones. He is enclosed in an acoustic environment of his choosing. He is enjoying, out in public, the kind of self-expression he once could experience only in his private den. A new technology is making it easier for him to show who he is, if only to himself. He struts around the world, the star of his own movie.So alluring is this vision that it has come to dominate our existence. Most of the powerful and important technologies created over the past few decades deliver convenience in the service of personalization and individuality. Think of the VCR, the playlist, the Facebook page, the Instagram account. This kind of convenience is no longer about saving physical labor — many of us dont do much of that anyway. It is about minimizing the mental resources, the mental exertion, required to choose among the options that express ourselves. Convenience is one-click, one-stop shopping, the seamless experience of plug and play. The ideal is personal preference with no effort.We are willing to pay a premium for convenience, of course — more than we often realize we are willing to pay. During the late 1990s, for example, technologies of music distribution like Napster made it possible to get music online at no cost, and lots of people availed themselves of the option. But though it remains easy to get music free, no one really does it anymore. Why? Because the introduction of the iTunes store in 2003 made buying music even more convenient than illegally downloading it. Convenient beat out free.As task after task becomes easier, the growing expectation of convenience exerts a pressure on everything else to be easy or get left behind. We are spoiled by immediacy and become annoyed by tasks that remain at the old level of effort and time. When you can skip the line and buy concert tickets on your phone, waiting in line to vote in an election is irritating. This is especially true for those who have never had to wait in lines (which may help explain the low rate at which young people vote).The paradoxical truth Im driving at is that todays technologies of individualization are technologies of mass individualization. Customization can be surprisingly homogenizing. Everyone, or nearly everyone, is on Facebook: It is the most convenient way to keep track of your friends and family, who in theory should represent what is unique about you and your life. Yet Facebook seems to make us all the same. Its format and conventions strip us of all but the most superficial expressions of individuality, such as which particular photo of a beach or mountain range we select as our background image.I do not want to deny that making things easier can serve us in important ways, giving us many choices (of restaurants, taxi services, open-source encyclopedias) where we used to have only a few or none. But being a person is only partly about having and exercising choices. It is also about how we face up to situations that are thrust upon us, about overcoming worthy challenges and finishing difficult tasks — the struggles that help make us who we are. What happens to human experience when so many obstacles and impediments and requirements and preparations have been removed?Todays cult of convenience fails to acknowledge that difficulty is a constitutive feature of human experience. Convenience is all destination and no journey. But climbing a mountain is different from taking the tram to the top, even if you end up at the same place. We are becoming people who care mainly or only about outcomes. We are at risk of making most of our life experiences a series of trolley rides.Convenience has to serve something greater than itself, lest it lead only to more convenience. In her 1963 classic, The Feminine Mystique, Betty Friedan looked at what household technologies had done for women and concluded that they had just created more demands. Even with all the new labor-saving appliances, she wrote, the modern American housewife probably spends more time on housework than her grandmother. When things become easier, we can seek to fill our time with more easy tasks. At some point, lifes defining struggle becomes the tyranny of tiny chores and petty decisions.An unwelcome consequence of living in a world where everything is easy is that the only skill that matters is the ability to multitask. At the extreme, we dont actually do anything; we only arrange what will be done, which is a flimsy basis for a life.We need to consciously embrace the inconvenient — not always, but more of the time. Nowadays individuality has come to reside in making at least some inconvenient choices. You need not churn your own butter or hunt your own meat, but if you want to be someone, you cannot allow convenience to be the value that transcends all others. Struggle is not always a problem. Sometimes struggle is a solution. It can be the solution to the question of who you are.Embracing inconvenience may sound odd, but we already do it without thinking of it as such. As if to mask the issue, we give other names to our inconvenient choices: We call them hobbies, avocations, callings, passions. These are the noninstrumental activities that help to define us. They reward us with character because they involve an encounter with meaningful resistance — with natures laws, with the limits of our own bodies — as in carving wood, melding raw ingredients, fixing a broken appliance, writing code, timing waves or facing the point when the runners legs and lungs begin to rebel against him.Such activities take time, but they also give us time back. They expose us to the risk of frustration and failure, but they also can teach us something about the world and our place in it.So lets reflect on the tyranny of convenience, try more often to resist its stupefying power, and see what happens. We must never forget the joy of doing something slow and something difficult, the satisfaction of not doing what is easiest. The constellation of inconvenient choices may be all that stands between us and a life of total, efficient conformity.Tim Wu is a law professor at Columbia, the author of The Attention Merchants: The Epic Struggle to Get Inside Our Heads and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
Wordplay By                     
 CAITLIN LOVINGER
 
FEB. 2, 2018
SATURDAY PUZZLE — First of all, Im over the moon that Im going to be picking these weekends up with some regularity and spending more time with you. I know that these puzzles can be hard to crack, but we are a plucky band and we will help one another wrestle hitherto-unknown word beasts to the ground, tame them and make them do our bidding.Today, Sam Ezersky has similarly wrangled an idol of his, Byron Walden, into helping construct a chunky little monster. If you read the constructor notes (and you should! Why not?) its fun to see how the big geniuses who come up with this torturous grid youve set out to conquer can get stuck themselves.It also serves as a reminder that asking someone to help with a puzzle is not cheating! It does not cost you a lifeline or break your streak or detract in any way from the hearty self-congratulation you may partake in when solving. If anything, asking someone for help with a crossword puzzle clue — your Facebook friend who manages a bar in Amsterdam, for 54 Across, for example — is one of those actions in life that are really and truly win-win. Youre not asking that person for a favor — youre doing them one. Dont you feel smarter, bigger, better, faster, when someone avails you of your expertise? So dont maroon yourself on the tiny island of Only-Words-You-Know.Personally, I dont know any Dutch bartenders, but I managed to get a toehold in the southeast vicinity by trying I FEEL LOVE, one of my favorite disco tracks, at 31D. Other than that I was stuck with a bunch of shorties — PAX; ARTS; ETNA; SAT UP; ICE-T — for what felt like forever, until I started breaking into some of the bigger blocks.AdvertisementThe southwest corner was my absolute Waterloo; I started with oryx for KUDU (leading to this discovery) and AREA CODE key instead of MAP. After lo these many years, its not a Saturday unless I have to overwrite at least three wrong decisions in one corner or another.Advertisement1A: Lets start at the beginning. I didnt have any good ideas for Toilet paper?; I knew itd be joshy with the question mark attached, but I went to pretty hippie-dippie schools where we sort of wandered about experientially learning and I dont think I ever used a HALL PASS. John Hughes movies were fascinating, like science fiction. Not just to me, right?19A: Ive heard the term SOB SISTERS all my life, but never really connected it to writing, specifically; to me the term just suggested maudlin sentimentality. The coinage actually stems from the trial of the (last) century — the incendiary story of the murder of Stanford White by Harry K. Thaw. At the time, 1907, the press corps included a group of female journalists, who were instructed to relay the cases lurid melodrama to female readers, and were dismissed as sob sisters or the pity patrol.49A: In the department of Doh!, COOKED KALE seems so obvious when its finally figured, looking at me placidly from a completed grid. I dont know why I got stuck on this one but Ive spent all January resignedly masticating raw kale salads, about one a day, as Ive broken two metatarsal bones and dark leafy greens are supposed to help fix those up. Now I see that cooking it might be O.K. I also blend it up but it gets so messy.56A: A word Id never seen before (and a debut in the Times puzzle), I drew a blank on AIR DAM until Id gotten all of the crosses. I wouldnt recognize one of these if it were in my rearview mirror, but I appreciate the existence of car culture and its accouterments, so Ill file it away for another puzzle, one day, although that file is pretty overstuffed.2D: This is the epitome of that clue you bring to the film buff in your life. ALICE FAYE, anyone? Anyone? She seems to make an appearance in the Times puzzle every 30 years or so, but Id never heard of her, her signature song, or even the movie that song came from (Hello, Frisco, Hello). Some of this can be explained by time, and by the fact that, according to her Times obituary, Alice Faye was one of those few movie stars to walk away from stardom at the peak of her career.In the department of what goes around comes around, an orchestration of Ms. Fayes Youll Never Know appears on the soundtrack for The Shape of Water, and that soundtrack is nominated for an Oscar this year.9D: On Saturdays, we get clues like this. Request for backup? seemed to call for a pun in its punctuation, and I thought of backups like floppy disks, understudies, traffic jams … I just got cleverer and cleverer to no avail. I was going down the wrong end of the funnel; instead of something super specific, we needed to go general, and a little desperate — GO ASK ANYONE.Advertisement42D: Not only did I miss out on hall passes, but my schooling impressed nine planets on me, including Pluto, the elusive Planet X, so I fought OCTAD until the end. The decision to knock Pluto off the mobile is still controversial, and there are arguments to expand the solar system even further — so this clue could be obsolete, one day. But not today!Sam: Talk about goals: Once upon a time, I was an avid solver absolutely obsessed with Byrons work. His grids were always loaded with interesting answers; how was he able to fill such wide-open areas so smoothly … and with such a unique touch? After meeting him at the ACPT a few years ago, we realized how similar our approaches to themeless puzzles were, and last spring over Facebook chat, I got the green light Id been looking for: We should collab sometime on a themeless — would be fun to see what we could come up with.After briefly fainting, I set out to make the craziest, most wide-open grid I could, just so I could compare with Byrons normal wavelength. Beginning with PIBB XTRA crossing LGBT ___, I designed the grid skeleton you see now, filling in the NW corner all the way down to AREA CODE MAP / SON OF ADAM (sorry about EYE-HAND!). I passed it off to Byron, and with several grid constraints already in play, was worried that hed have trouble with what remained. Well, not only did he prove that something was possible … he made a freaking MINI-THEME out of the SE stack. Unbelievable!The swath of white space leading into the NE corner was by far the hardest to fill, but it ended up being the most fun. We bounced around various possible fills — Byron had SAW GERRERA work at one point! — but nothing was quite satisfying enough. Finally, the non-database-discoverable GO ASK ANYONE came to mind, and that proved to be the breakthrough.Were thrilled with the final result, and hope it kicked off well with Byrons brilliant HALL PASS clue. Huge thanks to Byron for working with me on an unforgettable puzzlemaking experience. Whew! It may be a bit before I wade back into 64-word waters … well see.Byron: When Sam sent me that corner, I almost sent it back saying this was too good to share, but Im not that noble. It already had plenty of good stuff in the fill. The main thing, I thought, was to round the corner heading SE in a reasonable way that maintained the openness into the smaller corners. My general goal when constructing, especially themelesses, is to find one bottleneck in the grid that is hard to eliminate and find a way to eliminate it. In this case, that meant maintaining the AREA CODE MAP / SON OF ADAM combo and running something long through them. My self-indulgence was trying to do that with KAZAKHS and DANZA, the former for the crazy consonant mash-up and the latter as a hat tip since my wife has very fond memories of working with him in her former career in film production.It was so much fun working with Sam. Hope you enjoy it as much as we enjoyed making it.As a little bonus for no real reason, heres a Saturday grid from Mr. Walden that was named Puzzle of the Week at xwordinfo.com when it ran on Feb. 7, 2015. Just in case your gray matter still needs some cardio!What did you think?Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Nahid SiamdoustOn Dec. 27, Vida Movahed stood bareheaded on a utility box on one of Tehrans busiest thoroughfares, waving her white head scarf on a stick. Within days, images of the 31-year-old, who was detained and then released a few weeks later, had become an iconic symbol.In the weeks since Ms. Movaheds peaceful protest of the compulsory hijab, long one of the most visible symbols of the Islamic Republic, dozens of women, and even some men, throughout Iran have followed her lead. So far, at least 29 women in cities throughout the country have been arrested.These bold acts of defiance against the hijab are unprecedented in the nearly 40-year history of the Islamic Republic, but a movement that may have helped inspire them has been going on for years. It began on the social media account of a Brooklyn-based Iranian journalist named Masih Alinejad. In 2014, Ms. Alinejad started a Facebook page called My Stealthy Freedom, urging women to post images of themselves without the hijab in public places. Last year, she launched White Wednesdays, inviting women to wear white scarves on Wednesdays in protest of the compulsory hijab law. (Ms. Movahed carried out her protest on a Wednesday and held a white scarf, though her actual allegiance to Ms. Alinejads campaign is unknown).Ms. Alinejad, who worked as a journalist in Iran before emigrating to England in 2009, says her campaign came about by chance. She posted a photo of herself driving her car in Iran without hijab and invited others to share hidden photos of themselves on her Facebook page. The overwhelming response — the page now has more than a million followers — prompted her to focus more on the issue. I was a political reporter, but the women in Iran forced me to care about the issue of personal freedoms, she told me.For Ms. Alinejad and the protesters, the struggle against the compulsory hijab is about regaining a womans control over her own body, not a matter of questioning the validity of the hijab itself. Now that bareheaded women are joined in these acts by women who proudly wear the full-body chador, it is clear that the movement on the ground is also about a womans right to choose how to dress — something that, over the past century, various Iranian leaders have tried to deny.The founder of the Pahlavi dynasty, Reza Shah, banned the hijab, in a gesture of modernization, in 1936, which effectively put some women under house arrest for years since they could not bear to be uncovered in public. The leader of the Islamic Republic, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, made the hijab compulsory in 1979.Mass protests by women were unsuccessful in overturning the edict. Pro-hijab campaigners invented the slogan Ya rusari ya tusari, which means Either a cover on the head or a beating, and supervisory committees — often composed of women in full chadors — roamed the streets and punished women they deemed poorly covered. Those who opposed the strict measure called these enforcer women Fati commando, a derogatory term that combines Islam — in the nickname Fati for Fatemeh, the prophets daughter — and vigilantism.While the requirements have remained firmly in place, Iranian women have been pushing the boundaries of acceptable hijab for years. Coats have gotten shorter and more fitted and some head scarves are as small as bandannas. This has not gone without notice or punishment: Hijab-related arrests are common and numerous. In 2014, Iranian police announced that bad hijab had led to 3.6 million cases of police intervention.But for years, many womens rights activists have written off the hijab as secondary to other matters such as political or gender equality rights. In 2006, the One Million Signatures for the Repeal of Discriminatory Laws campaign, one of the most concerted efforts undertaken by Iranian feminists to gain greater rights for women, barely mentions the hijab. Iranian feminists have also been determined to distance themselves from the Western obsession with the hijab, almost overcompensating by minimizing its significance. Western feminists who have visited Iran and willingly worn the hijab have also played a hand in normalizing it.But fighting discriminatory policies has not resulted in any real change, as the crushed One Million Signatures campaign proved. So now Ms. Alinejad and a younger generation of Iranian women are turning back the focus on the most visible symbol of discrimination, which, they argue, is also the most fundamental. We are not fighting against a piece of cloth, Ms. Alinejad told me. We are fighting for our dignity. If you cant choose what to put on your head, they wont let you be in charge of what is in your head, either. In contrast, Islamic Republic officials argue that the hijab bestows dignity on women.The government has had a mixed response to the protests. On the day that Vida Movahed climbed on the utility box to protest the hijab, Tehrans police chief announced that going forward, women would no longer be detained for bad hijab, but would be educated. In early January, in response to recent weeks of unrest throughout the country, President Hassan Rouhani went so far as to say, One cannot force ones lifestyle on the future generations. In the past week, faced with a growing wave of civil disobedience, Irans general prosecutor called the actions of the women childish and the Tehran police said that those who were arrested were deceived by the no-hijab campaign.But these young women appear undeterred. Their generation is empowered by a new media ecosystem, one that not only unites protesters but also helps to spread potent images of defiance. Ms. Alinejad believes that the movement has already, in a sense, succeeded. Women are showing that they are no longer afraid, she said. We used to fear the government, now its the government that fears women.Nahid Siamdoust is a postdoctoral associate of Iranian studies at Yale University and the author of Soundtrack of the Revolution: The Politics of Music in Iran.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy JACLYN PEISERFEB. 21, 2018
A media company is expanding its newsroom. You read that right.The Atlantic plans to add as many as 100 employees to its staff over the next 12 months, its president, Bob Cohn, told employees during a staff meeting on Wednesday. The hirings will represent a 30 percent increase in personnel at the publication, with half the jobs going to newsroom employees.We have great ambitions to grow The Atlantic and make it better and these are the ways we think we can do it, Mr. Cohn said in an interview on Tuesday.The ramping up comes six months after Emerson Collective, an organization run by the philanthropist Laurene Powell Jobs, acquired a majority stake in The Atlantic.The Atlantics decision to go on a hiring spree is surprising at a time when legacy publications and recently established websites alike are cutting costs and shedding employees. The announcement of the hires came on a day when Vox Media said it would lay off some 50 staff members, with most of those targeted working in the social video departments at Racked, Curbed and SB Nation. The Vox Media move occurred, not coincidentally, after Facebook recalibrated its News Feed to drive less traffic to content produced by professional news organizations.AdvertisementEarlier this month, CNN Digital announced job cuts, and Condé Nast laid off senior employees at Vanity Fair and Glamour magazines, both of which have newly installed editors. Last fall, taking cost-cutting measures, Condé Nast ended the regular print run of Teen Vogue and reduced the print frequency of other magazines in its stable, including Bon Appétit and W.AdvertisementThe austerity plan at Condé Nast coincided roughly with the sale of the once-mighty Time Inc. to the Meredith Corporation — the Des Moines-based publisher of Better Homes and Gardens and Family Circle magazines — in a $2.8 billion deal made possible by an equity infusion from Koch Industries, the conglomerate run by Charles G. and David H. Koch.With Emerson Collective as its new patron, The Atlantic has avoided the grim fates of its fellow news organizations. In a memo to the staff, Mr. Cohn said that circulation is at an all-time high — it rose 13 percent last year — and that visits to TheAtlantic.com rose by 25 percent in 2017.I think quality journalism is a scarce commodity these days and I think the discerning readers reward places that are making stories that mean something, Jeffrey Goldberg, the editor in chief of The Atlantic, said.The planned additions to the newsroom are meant to bolster the magazines coverage of Washington, Hollywood, Europe and the tech industry.It will be a mix of writers and editors and video producers and podcast producers and live events producers, Mr. Cohn said. Those are areas of coverage that we want to focus on, and well do it across all our platforms: digital, print, live events, video, audio, newsletters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Other jobs will go to engineers, designers and members of a new team the magazine has called Talent Lab, which is intended to help us achieve one of our paramount goals: ensuring that our team is truly representative of America in all of its diversity, Mr. Cohn wrote.When it acquired a majority stake in The Atlantic, Emerson Collective — which focuses on education, the environment and immigration — expanded its portfolio of media and entertainment holdings. It is also an investor in Axios, a media company started by the Politico co-founder Jim VandeHei and its former star reporter, Mike Allen, and in Pop-Up Magazine. In 2016, it took a minority stake in Anonymous Content, the production and talent management company behind the movie Spotlight.The organization also supports several nonprofit journalism organizations, including The Marshall Project, Mother Jones and ProPublica. It was founded in 2004 by Ms. Powell Jobs, the widow of the Apple co-founder Steven P. Jobs, who died in 2011.AdvertisementEmerson is eager to see us grow and succeed, and they were excited at helping to make this happen, Mr. Cohn said.Mr. Goldberg said he looks forward to bringing The Atlantic back to its 19th-century roots, when its founders, including heavyweights like Ralph Waldo Emerson and Oliver Wendell Holmes, viewed the magazine as a forum for some good old intellectual brawls and tussles.We are in a moment of national fracturing, and our expansion allows us to do a lot more of the kind of work that really is in our DNA, Mr. Goldberg said. We can double down on our coverage of Washington and this administration. We can double down on publishing the best and most interesting and thought-provoking ideas about the American future.Follow Jaclyn Peiser on Twitter: @jackiepeiser.A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: As Other Media Companies Cut Staff, The Atlantic Plans to Do the Opposite.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Wordplay By                     
 CAITLIN LOVINGER
 
FEB. 2, 2018
SATURDAY PUZZLE — First of all, Im over the moon that Im going to be picking these weekends up with some regularity and spending more time with you. I know that these puzzles can be hard to crack, but we are a plucky band and we will help one another wrestle hitherto-unknown word beasts to the ground, tame them and make them do our bidding.Today, Sam Ezersky has similarly wrangled an idol of his, Byron Walden, into helping construct a chunky little monster. If you read the constructor notes (and you should! Why not?) its fun to see how the big geniuses who come up with this torturous grid youve set out to conquer can get stuck themselves.It also serves as a reminder that asking someone to help with a puzzle is not cheating! It does not cost you a lifeline or break your streak or detract in any way from the hearty self-congratulation you may partake in when solving. If anything, asking someone for help with a crossword puzzle clue — your Facebook friend who manages a bar in Amsterdam, for 54 Across, for example — is one of those actions in life that are really and truly win-win. Youre not asking that person for a favor — youre doing them one. Dont you feel smarter, bigger, better, faster, when someone avails you of your expertise? So dont maroon yourself on the tiny island of Only-Words-You-Know.Personally, I dont know any Dutch bartenders, but I managed to get a toehold in the southeast vicinity by trying I FEEL LOVE, one of my favorite disco tracks, at 31D. Other than that I was stuck with a bunch of shorties — PAX; ARTS; ETNA; SAT UP; ICE-T — for what felt like forever, until I started breaking into some of the bigger blocks.AdvertisementThe southwest corner was my absolute Waterloo; I started with oryx for KUDU (leading to this discovery) and AREA CODE key instead of MAP. After lo these many years, its not a Saturday unless I have to overwrite at least three wrong decisions in one corner or another.Advertisement1A: Lets start at the beginning. I didnt have any good ideas for Toilet paper?; I knew itd be joshy with the question mark attached, but I went to pretty hippie-dippie schools where we sort of wandered about experientially learning and I dont think I ever used a HALL PASS. John Hughes movies were fascinating, like science fiction. Not just to me, right?19A: Ive heard the term SOB SISTERS all my life, but never really connected it to writing, specifically; to me the term just suggested maudlin sentimentality. The coinage actually stems from the trial of the (last) century — the incendiary story of the murder of Stanford White by Harry K. Thaw. At the time, 1907, the press corps included a group of female journalists, who were instructed to relay the cases lurid melodrama to female readers, and were dismissed as sob sisters or the pity patrol.49A: In the department of Doh!, COOKED KALE seems so obvious when its finally figured, looking at me placidly from a completed grid. I dont know why I got stuck on this one but Ive spent all January resignedly masticating raw kale salads, about one a day, as Ive broken two metatarsal bones and dark leafy greens are supposed to help fix those up. Now I see that cooking it might be O.K. I also blend it up but it gets so messy.56A: A word Id never seen before (and a debut in the Times puzzle), I drew a blank on AIR DAM until Id gotten all of the crosses. I wouldnt recognize one of these if it were in my rearview mirror, but I appreciate the existence of car culture and its accouterments, so Ill file it away for another puzzle, one day, although that file is pretty overstuffed.2D: This is the epitome of that clue you bring to the film buff in your life. ALICE FAYE, anyone? Anyone? She seems to make an appearance in the Times puzzle every 30 years or so, but Id never heard of her, her signature song, or even the movie that song came from (Hello, Frisco, Hello). Some of this can be explained by time, and by the fact that, according to her Times obituary, Alice Faye was one of those few movie stars to walk away from stardom at the peak of her career.In the department of what goes around comes around, an orchestration of Ms. Fayes Youll Never Know appears on the soundtrack for The Shape of Water, and that soundtrack is nominated for an Oscar this year.9D: On Saturdays, we get clues like this. Request for backup? seemed to call for a pun in its punctuation, and I thought of backups like floppy disks, understudies, traffic jams … I just got cleverer and cleverer to no avail. I was going down the wrong end of the funnel; instead of something super specific, we needed to go general, and a little desperate — GO ASK ANYONE.Advertisement42D: Not only did I miss out on hall passes, but my schooling impressed nine planets on me, including Pluto, the elusive Planet X, so I fought OCTAD until the end. The decision to knock Pluto off the mobile is still controversial, and there are arguments to expand the solar system even further — so this clue could be obsolete, one day. But not today!Sam: Talk about goals: Once upon a time, I was an avid solver absolutely obsessed with Byrons work. His grids were always loaded with interesting answers; how was he able to fill such wide-open areas so smoothly … and with such a unique touch? After meeting him at the ACPT a few years ago, we realized how similar our approaches to themeless puzzles were, and last spring over Facebook chat, I got the green light Id been looking for: We should collab sometime on a themeless — would be fun to see what we could come up with.After briefly fainting, I set out to make the craziest, most wide-open grid I could, just so I could compare with Byrons normal wavelength. Beginning with PIBB XTRA crossing LGBT ___, I designed the grid skeleton you see now, filling in the NW corner all the way down to AREA CODE MAP / SON OF ADAM (sorry about EYE-HAND!). I passed it off to Byron, and with several grid constraints already in play, was worried that hed have trouble with what remained. Well, not only did he prove that something was possible … he made a freaking MINI-THEME out of the SE stack. Unbelievable!The swath of white space leading into the NE corner was by far the hardest to fill, but it ended up being the most fun. We bounced around various possible fills — Byron had SAW GERRERA work at one point! — but nothing was quite satisfying enough. Finally, the non-database-discoverable GO ASK ANYONE came to mind, and that proved to be the breakthrough.Were thrilled with the final result, and hope it kicked off well with Byrons brilliant HALL PASS clue. Huge thanks to Byron for working with me on an unforgettable puzzlemaking experience. Whew! It may be a bit before I wade back into 64-word waters … well see.Byron: When Sam sent me that corner, I almost sent it back saying this was too good to share, but Im not that noble. It already had plenty of good stuff in the fill. The main thing, I thought, was to round the corner heading SE in a reasonable way that maintained the openness into the smaller corners. My general goal when constructing, especially themelesses, is to find one bottleneck in the grid that is hard to eliminate and find a way to eliminate it. In this case, that meant maintaining the AREA CODE MAP / SON OF ADAM combo and running something long through them. My self-indulgence was trying to do that with KAZAKHS and DANZA, the former for the crazy consonant mash-up and the latter as a hat tip since my wife has very fond memories of working with him in her former career in film production.It was so much fun working with Sam. Hope you enjoy it as much as we enjoyed making it.As a little bonus for no real reason, heres a Saturday grid from Mr. Walden that was named Puzzle of the Week at xwordinfo.com when it ran on Feb. 7, 2015. Just in case your gray matter still needs some cardio!What did you think?Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Nahid SiamdoustOn Dec. 27, Vida Movahed stood bareheaded on a utility box on one of Tehrans busiest thoroughfares, waving her white head scarf on a stick. Within days, images of the 31-year-old, who was detained and then released a few weeks later, had become an iconic symbol.In the weeks since Ms. Movaheds peaceful protest of the compulsory hijab, long one of the most visible symbols of the Islamic Republic, dozens of women, and even some men, throughout Iran have followed her lead. So far, at least 29 women in cities throughout the country have been arrested.These bold acts of defiance against the hijab are unprecedented in the nearly 40-year history of the Islamic Republic, but a movement that may have helped inspire them has been going on for years. It began on the social media account of a Brooklyn-based Iranian journalist named Masih Alinejad. In 2014, Ms. Alinejad started a Facebook page called My Stealthy Freedom, urging women to post images of themselves without the hijab in public places. Last year, she launched White Wednesdays, inviting women to wear white scarves on Wednesdays in protest of the compulsory hijab law. (Ms. Movahed carried out her protest on a Wednesday and held a white scarf, though her actual allegiance to Ms. Alinejads campaign is unknown).Ms. Alinejad, who worked as a journalist in Iran before emigrating to England in 2009, says her campaign came about by chance. She posted a photo of herself driving her car in Iran without hijab and invited others to share hidden photos of themselves on her Facebook page. The overwhelming response — the page now has more than a million followers — prompted her to focus more on the issue. I was a political reporter, but the women in Iran forced me to care about the issue of personal freedoms, she told me.For Ms. Alinejad and the protesters, the struggle against the compulsory hijab is about regaining a womans control over her own body, not a matter of questioning the validity of the hijab itself. Now that bareheaded women are joined in these acts by women who proudly wear the full-body chador, it is clear that the movement on the ground is also about a womans right to choose how to dress — something that, over the past century, various Iranian leaders have tried to deny.The founder of the Pahlavi dynasty, Reza Shah, banned the hijab, in a gesture of modernization, in 1936, which effectively put some women under house arrest for years since they could not bear to be uncovered in public. The leader of the Islamic Republic, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, made the hijab compulsory in 1979.Mass protests by women were unsuccessful in overturning the edict. Pro-hijab campaigners invented the slogan Ya rusari ya tusari, which means Either a cover on the head or a beating, and supervisory committees — often composed of women in full chadors — roamed the streets and punished women they deemed poorly covered. Those who opposed the strict measure called these enforcer women Fati commando, a derogatory term that combines Islam — in the nickname Fati for Fatemeh, the prophets daughter — and vigilantism.While the requirements have remained firmly in place, Iranian women have been pushing the boundaries of acceptable hijab for years. Coats have gotten shorter and more fitted and some head scarves are as small as bandannas. This has not gone without notice or punishment: Hijab-related arrests are common and numerous. In 2014, Iranian police announced that bad hijab had led to 3.6 million cases of police intervention.But for years, many womens rights activists have written off the hijab as secondary to other matters such as political or gender equality rights. In 2006, the One Million Signatures for the Repeal of Discriminatory Laws campaign, one of the most concerted efforts undertaken by Iranian feminists to gain greater rights for women, barely mentions the hijab. Iranian feminists have also been determined to distance themselves from the Western obsession with the hijab, almost overcompensating by minimizing its significance. Western feminists who have visited Iran and willingly worn the hijab have also played a hand in normalizing it.But fighting discriminatory policies has not resulted in any real change, as the crushed One Million Signatures campaign proved. So now Ms. Alinejad and a younger generation of Iranian women are turning back the focus on the most visible symbol of discrimination, which, they argue, is also the most fundamental. We are not fighting against a piece of cloth, Ms. Alinejad told me. We are fighting for our dignity. If you cant choose what to put on your head, they wont let you be in charge of what is in your head, either. In contrast, Islamic Republic officials argue that the hijab bestows dignity on women.The government has had a mixed response to the protests. On the day that Vida Movahed climbed on the utility box to protest the hijab, Tehrans police chief announced that going forward, women would no longer be detained for bad hijab, but would be educated. In early January, in response to recent weeks of unrest throughout the country, President Hassan Rouhani went so far as to say, One cannot force ones lifestyle on the future generations. In the past week, faced with a growing wave of civil disobedience, Irans general prosecutor called the actions of the women childish and the Tehran police said that those who were arrested were deceived by the no-hijab campaign.But these young women appear undeterred. Their generation is empowered by a new media ecosystem, one that not only unites protesters but also helps to spread potent images of defiance. Ms. Alinejad believes that the movement has already, in a sense, succeeded. Women are showing that they are no longer afraid, she said. We used to fear the government, now its the government that fears women.Nahid Siamdoust is a postdoctoral associate of Iranian studies at Yale University and the author of Soundtrack of the Revolution: The Politics of Music in Iran.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy JULIA OMALLEYFEB. 20, 2018
ANCHORAGE — This time of year, when the sun doesnt edge over the mountains until midmorning and starts to sink only a few hours later, this city feels a little like one big, icy strip-mall parking lot with a tremendous mountain view. Its so cold that the steering wheel hurts to touch. Life plays out under streetlight instead of daylight, and the rest of the world seems twice as far away as it did when the leaves were green.Talk to anybody and the conversation veers into two intertwined ideations: vacation and food.Alaskans are lusting after fresh fruits and vegetables right now, fantasizing about the pepper and snap of an arugula stem and the sweet acid of a mango. They crave simple things that shoppers in the Lower 48 — where grocery stores are restocked daily with produce whisked in from greenhouses and farms — can get their hands on with just a short drive or a swipe on an app.Even in this cosmopolitan city of 350,000, people who like to cook spend the moonlit mornings before work scrolling through Instagram pictures of faraway blood oranges and heirloom tomatoes as if theyre stalking crushes.For Carlyle Watt, the executive chef and head baker at Fire Island Rustic Bakeshop, its a ripe pear.AdvertisementIt would be a DAnjou or a Bosc, something run-of-the-mill, he said on a recent afternoon as snowflakes feathered down outside the bakery window. I would touch it and it would just kind of yield to my thumb, and then I would take a bite of it right there in the store and I would have to make a little slurping sound, so not all the juice would run down my chin, but some would.AdvertisementA feeling of deprivation is part of the psychological cycle of life in Alaska. In summertime, farmers market tables overflow with greens, and garden zucchinis swell to the size of small dogs in the all-night light. But now is the season of austerity and anticipation. Though each day brings a few more minutes of light, the root-cellar stock has dwindled down to last summers dry-skinned beets, gnarled carrots and potatoes with eyes. All those blocks of frozen sockeye in the chest freezer dont have the same appeal that they did in November.The grocery store isnt much relief. About 95 percent of all the food Alaskans eat comes from somewhere else, according to the Alaska Food Policy Council. The bulk of it travels by highway to Seattle, then floats roughly 1,600 miles north by sea, a trip that can take a week inside a dark container.By the time they get here, tomatoes have become ghosts, their flesh pinkish and watery. Avocados are hard but rotten around the pit. Boxed, prewashed lettuces often arrive with an odor of decay. But fresh food is still expensive, and there isnt always enough — especially on Sunday afternoons, when whole swaths of the produce section are frequently bare.Fruit and vegetables come to one of Alaskas largest grocers, Fred Meyer, in just two or three weekly shipments, said Steve Lacy, the food safety manager. The challenge of keeping food fresh and costs down, and dealing with unexpected delays caused by weather or shipping breakdowns forces grocers to troubleshoot constantly, he said.Between shipments, stores cant always keep up with the demand. Out of stocks, the grocery business term for empty shelves, are a fact of life. The farther from Anchorage shoppers are, the more often they encounter them. Theres just no way around it, Mr. Lacy said.But resourceful Alaskans find a way. Pineapples peek out of carry-on luggage. Meyer lemons arrive from relatives by FedEx. An Alaskan might forgo a latte to pay $5 for a single perfect Sumo mandarin orange, flown in by New Sagaya, the citys largest gourmet market.Leah Glasscock-Sanders, a recess attendant at a charter school in Wasilla, an Anchorage suburb, always plans her shopping in the early mornings to get the best selection. Even so, she sometimes cant find what she needs.AdvertisementIts cleaned out, she said. There might be five bell peppers to choose from when I get there, and they would all be of a quality I wouldnt purchase.All of this deprivation can lead to unusual relationships. Maybe theres a peach guy you meet in a parking lot, and you trade $70 in cash for a case of whats in his trunk. Or, if you live way up north, you may plead on Facebook for someone, anyone, to tuck an avocado into a pocket when he gets on a bush plane to your village. And you may think about it for days until it arrives, as you watch Giada and the Barefoot Contessa on cable.And then, after you thank whoever brought you the avocado with some caribou meat from your freezer, you may cut it in half and share it with your best friend, keeping it a secret from the children.It was about three years ago when Kim Sunée, a memoirist and cookbook author, entered into an inventory-related texting relationship with some supermarket produce workers. Soon she was bringing the green-aproned men a quiche or a pan of lemon-raspberry rolls with cream cheese frosting. Now a little buzz in her pocket tells her when the store has a clutch of fresh organic figs, or white asparagus or pea shoots or passion fruit.You have to cultivate these relationships when you are living in a place like this, she said.Ms. Sunée still spends good money on mail order (ask her about shipping pastrami-cured salmon and bagels) from the New York deli Russ & Daughters. Once, she carried a leg of prosciutto di Parma all the way from Italy.Lets just say Ive smuggled back some things, she said.Maya Wilson moved to Nikiski, south of Anchorage, from California in 2011 to help pastor a church. The grocery store was more than an hour away, and she started a blog, Alaska From Scratch, tapping into her feelings of isolation, and making recipes for things she craved but couldnt easily find, like pumpkin spice coffee creamer and pillowy Lofthouse sugar cookies.Her blog audience grew every day, and her Instagram feed now has more than 54,000 followers. The Alaska From Scratch Cookbook (Rodale) is due out this week.Isolation stokes her imagination, she said; cravings motivate her. They make Alaska a perfect laboratory for writing recipes. No pine nuts? Use pistachios. No lemons? Try oranges.AdvertisementI cannot tell you how many times I envisioned a recipe and I went to the store and I couldnt find the ingredients, Ms. Wilson said. I was so spoiled in California. Alaska has made me such a much more self-sufficient human being.It used to be worse. Maybe 50 years ago, most winter vegetables and fruit came frozen or in a can. Many Anchorage children first encountered cherries, for example, in canned fruit cocktail, waxy and pink.Allison Warden, an artist and rapper who lives in Anchorage, is Inupiaq, with roots in the far-north village of Kaktovik. She lives with her mother, and they share a freezer full of wild foods: caribou, walrus, seal, whitefish, duck, seal liver and whale, mostly supplied by family.When money is tight in winter, Ms. Warden finds herself eating traditional proteins and rice, but her fantasies are full of tropical fruit. She still remembers eating her first mango, when she was 28, on a trip to New York.It was the most amazing thing ever that I never thought I could ever taste, she said.Kate Consenstein, who owns a communications business in Anchorage, believes in eating seasonally, but then something comes over her when she glimpses an exotic fruit among the waxy apples and leathery oranges in Safeway, like a four-leaf clover in the grass.When you live in Alaska and, like, a dragon fruit waves at you from a stack at the grocery store, I run at it, she said. Im moved by its gravitational pull. I want that sweet brightness. I want it in my mouth. Then I get to the register and its 20 freaking dollars. And I am like, so be it.Mr. Watt, the chef at Fire Island bakery, is originally from South Carolina. He decided years ago to lean into Alaskas extremes, rather than resist them. His approach to winter cooking is to embrace the austerity and master whats left in the root cellar and freezer.You learn what potato to get in order to get that perfect crispy exterior and the buttery interior, he said. You figure out that roasting a whole carrot until it turns black is delicious.AdvertisementAlaska summers, short and lush, are electric, the long days packed with activity. In winter, he said, you get to catch your breath and revel in the slowness. You study the incremental return of the light, enjoy anticipation, get drunk on spring when it comes. Once you understand how all that works, you can call yourself Alaskan.This is your penance, he said. You get through it. Then youre rewarded, slowly at first with a few radishes and maybe a little bit of greens, and later with, like, everything. You are paying your dues in order to be a local in the summertime.Recipe: Spicy Chorizo and Red Lentil Soup with KaleFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Alaskas Desert Aisles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jaclyn PeiserA media company is expanding its newsroom. You read that right.The Atlantic plans to add as many as 100 employees to its staff over the next 12 months, its president, Bob Cohn, told employees during a staff meeting on Wednesday. The hirings will represent a 30 percent increase in personnel at the publication, with half the jobs going to newsroom employees.We have great ambitions to grow The Atlantic and make it better and these are the ways we think we can do it, Mr. Cohn said in an interview on Tuesday.The ramping up comes six months after Emerson Collective, an organization run by the philanthropist Laurene Powell Jobs, acquired a majority stake in The Atlantic.The Atlantics decision to go on a hiring spree is surprising at a time when legacy publications and recently established websites alike are cutting costs and shedding employees. The announcement of the hires came on a day when Vox Media said it would lay off some 50 staff members, with most of those targeted working in the social video departments at Racked, Curbed and SB Nation. The Vox Media move occurred, not coincidentally, after Facebook recalibrated its News Feed to drive less traffic to content produced by professional news organizations.Earlier this month, CNN Digital announced job cuts, and Condé Nast laid off senior employees at Vanity Fair and Glamour magazines, both of which have newly installed editors. Last fall, taking cost-cutting measures, Condé Nast ended the regular print run of Teen Vogue and reduced the print frequency of other magazines in its stable, including Bon Appétit and W.The austerity plan at Condé Nast coincided roughly with the sale of the once-mighty Time Inc. to the Meredith Corporation — the Des Moines-based publisher of Better Homes and Gardens and Family Circle magazines — in a $2.8 billion deal made possible by an equity infusion from Koch Industries, the conglomerate run by Charles G. and David H. Koch.With Emerson Collective as its new patron, The Atlantic has avoided the grim fates of its fellow news organizations. In a memo to the staff, Mr. Cohn said that circulation is at an all-time high — it rose 13 percent last year — and that visits to TheAtlantic.com rose by 25 percent in 2017.I think quality journalism is a scarce commodity these days and I think the discerning readers reward places that are making stories that mean something, Jeffrey Goldberg, the editor in chief of The Atlantic, said.The planned additions to the newsroom are meant to bolster the magazines coverage of Washington, Hollywood, Europe and the tech industry.It will be a mix of writers and editors and video producers and podcast producers and live events producers, Mr. Cohn said. Those are areas of coverage that we want to focus on, and well do it across all our platforms: digital, print, live events, video, audio, newsletters.Other jobs will go to engineers, designers and members of a new team the magazine has called Talent Lab, which is intended to help us achieve one of our paramount goals: ensuring that our team is truly representative of America in all of its diversity, Mr. Cohn wrote.When it acquired a majority stake in The Atlantic, Emerson Collective — which focuses on education, the environment and immigration — expanded its portfolio of media and entertainment holdings. It is also an investor in Axios, a media company started by the Politico co-founder Jim VandeHei and its former star reporter, Mike Allen, and in Pop-Up Magazine. In 2016, it took a minority stake in Anonymous Content, the production and talent management company behind the movie Spotlight.The organization also supports several nonprofit journalism organizations, including The Marshall Project, Mother Jones and ProPublica. It was founded in 2004 by Ms. Powell Jobs, the widow of the Apple co-founder Steven P. Jobs, who died in 2011.Emerson is eager to see us grow and succeed, and they were excited at helping to make this happen, Mr. Cohn said.Mr. Goldberg said he looks forward to bringing The Atlantic back to its 19th-century roots, when its founders, including heavyweights like Ralph Waldo Emerson and Oliver Wendell Holmes, viewed the magazine as a forum for some good old intellectual brawls and tussles.We are in a moment of national fracturing, and our expansion allows us to do a lot more of the kind of work that really is in our DNA, Mr. Goldberg said. We can double down on our coverage of Washington and this administration. We can double down on publishing the best and most interesting and thought-provoking ideas about the American future.Follow Jaclyn Peiser on Twitter: @jackiepeiser.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Shana RosenthalThe video above is based on the following letter, which I wrote to my senator, Marco Rubio, in the wake of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. I urge you to hold your elected officials accountable by sending them a letter and tagging them on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and whatever other social media platforms you use.Dear Senator Rubio,I am writing to you as a former employee of your Tallahassee, Florida office. My sophomore year at Florida State University, I accepted a non-partisan internship at your Tallahassee, Fla. location. As an eager, young Political Science student, I was excited to get my foot in the door of a Senators office; however, I was dismayed when your staff told me that you probably wouldnt be present for the duration of my internship.As it turns out, they were right – I worked for your team for five whole months, twenty hours a week, and never once saw you in the office.As an intern, I was tasked with fielding constituents calls and writing their comments into a call log, which was sent to you at the end of each week. Supposedly, you used this log to address the needs of constituents, but I am skeptical that you ever actually read through it.Now, three years later, I am one of those concerned constituents pleading for change from you, our elected Florida official. I am afraid, though, that my pleas for help will fall on the ears of another intern and go no further – but you can prove me wrong by taking action against gun violence.When I was 19-years-old, FSU – my home away from home – experienced a campus shooting. On November 20, 2015, Myron May approached the Strozier Library on FSUs campus and opened fire on students using a .380-caliber handgun. Three of my fellow colleagues were injured. May was mentally disturbed and consumed by paranoia to a point where he sought to murder people on my campus.Thankfully, during the shooting I was not at the scene of the crime, but rather, across the street sitting in my dorm. While I studied for my upcoming finals, students were being shot a few yards away from me.When I was 20-years-old, yet another community I hold close to my heart suffered a mass shooting. On June 12, 2016, Omar Mateen killed 49 people and wounded 58 others using an AR-15 style-rifle at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Fla. Mateen specifically targeted LGBTQ+ Latinx/people-of-color that evening.I was about one mile up the same street from the massacre that night. Again, a blood bath occurred yards away from me and my friends.Less than 7 months later, tragedy struck while I was visiting home for winter break. January 6, 2017, Esteban Santiago-Ruiz used a Walther PPS 9mm semi-automatic pistol to gun down five individuals and injure six others at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport. The Broward County airport my family used to travel our entire lives became a warzone.Today, I am a 21-year-old college graduate and am writing this with great despair – and even more anger. On February 14, 2018, Nikolas Cruz used an AR-15 style-rifle to murder 17 Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School students and staff, and injured at least 14 more.I sat in my parents home, just around the corner from my alma mater, as children were being slaughtered. Once again, I sat in a silo of safety as a bloody massacre literally played out across the street.Ive lived in the serene town of Parkland since I was three-years-old, and attended MSD for four formative years of my life. The hallways where I once shared laughter, curiosity, and hope are now crime scenes. Members of my community have lost their lives. Students and staff of MSD are traumatized. My tight-knit community of loving people is broken.I am in shock that one of the deadliest mass shootings in American history happened in Parkland, Fla., my hometown – the safest place in Florida.In my short lifetime, these countless acts of terror have plagued communities throughout the United States with unimaginable grief, and it is time for this pattern to stop. I will no longer feel helpless nor sit idly by while these atrocities occur.I will not accept mass shootings as the norm.It is YOUR responsibility as our elected official to pass laws that protect your constituents. This isnt about party politics - this is about human lives. I am begging you to implement a systematic plan that will end the mass shooting epidemic in Florida and beyond, starting with:· Stricter gun licensing· Recognizing gun violence as a public health issue· Funding research on gun violence and gun violence prevention· Extensive background checks for gun purchases· Close loopholes in gun purchasing (i.e. gun shows)· Implementing a buffer period between purchasing a rifle and taking it homeIt is shameful that I have to write this and beg you to do SOMETHING.I hope you have read my letter free from the influence of wealthy lobbyists who may impede your senatorial judgment. I hope you read this letter at all.Respectfully, your former intern and concerned Parkland citizen,Shana Miranda RosenthalShana Rosenthal (@ShanaMRosenthal) is a recent graduate of Florida State University, where she studied political science and communications.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy ANDREW E. KRAMERJAN. 31, 2018
VEDUCHI, Russia — Sporting a camouflage ski suit, Ramzan A. Kadyrov, the leader of Chechnya, pulled a gigantic ceremonial lever to start this once war-wrecked regions first ski lift. God is great! some spectators yelled as the machine whirred to life.High in the Caucasus Mountains, a ski resort is rising on slopes that once teemed with Islamist militants. The Veduchi resort, which takes its name from the local village, is a multimillion-dollar development featuring a hotel and spa center, chalets and a helicopter pad. It is the centerpiece of an improbable effort for Russia to ski and snowboard its way out of a long-simmering insurgency.The potential for winter sports as a method of diplomacy came into focus recently in South Korea, which is preparing to welcome North Korean athletes to  the Winter Olympics this month. But Russia has a longer-term strategy: putting winter sports to use as a tool for economic development and pacification in a decades-old conflict in the Caucasus.A state-owned company, North Caucasus Resorts, is building a string of ski resorts in the restive, predominantly Muslim areas of the Caucasus. Three have opened so far, the most recent here in the Argun Gorge of Chechnya.AdvertisementThe intention is to create jobs, though even the developer conceded that it might be difficult to convince winter sports enthusiasts of the merits of Chechnya, where Russia brutally repressed an Islamist insurgency and where thousands of militants may be returning from Syria after fighting for the Islamic State.AdvertisementI am confident it will become popular not only with the Russian population but also with foreign countries, Mr. Kadyrov said at the opening this week.Ruslan Timukayev, a spokesman for the regional government, said the region had seen an uptick in tourism as Chechnya became a brand. About 100,000 tourists came to Chechnya last year, he said, adding with a shrug, Some people like extremes.About $35 million has been invested so far in the ski resort, which is expected to cost $500 million when completed. The plans call for 19 ski lifts and 28 miles of trails fanning out over a serene alpine valley though the resort opened with only one modest, half-mile lift, serving just one trail.After pulling the lever to start the lift, Mr. Kadyrov, who does not ski, hopped on for a ride. The lift stalled briefly, leaving him dangling for a few moments before jerking back into motion.Professional skiers flown in from St. Petersburg zigzagged down the slope for the television cameras, and local children were offered free lessons.The war in Chechnya has mostly petered out; the last insurgent attack in near Veduchi took place in 2009, officials say, and the last significant terrorist attack in Chechnya was in 2014. But rights groups have documented a staggering cost of peace and of propping up the rule of Mr. Kadyrov, a former rebel whose powerful family allied with President Vladimir V. Putin in 1999.They have cataloged an array of continuing abuses, including arbitrary arrests, house burnings as punishment, and the detention and torture last spring of about 100 gay men.How is a ski resort going to solve all that? Tanya Lokshina, the Russia director of Human Rights Watch, said in a telephone interview. How is it going to solve the problem of a state within a state, where lawlessness and abuses are the norm?AdvertisementMore recently, rights groups have expressed alarm at what they see as a cruel and capricious response from Mr. Kadyrov to the cancellation last month of his Facebook and Instagram accounts.Facebook, which also owns Instagram, said it had deactivated the accounts after Mr. Kadyrov was added to a United States sanctions list over rights abuses.The block came as a blow to Mr. Kadyrov, who had amassed millions of followers by posting pictures of himself cuddling a cat and lifting weights, along with the dead bodies of his enemies. He rejoiced in it, really, and he was clearly livid about losing it, Ms. Lokshina said.On Jan. 10, Oyub Titiev, the Chechnya director of the rights group Memorial, was arrested, ostensibly over possessing marijuana. But Mr. Kadyrov went on television a few days later to criticize rights activists as enemies of the people, adding that he would break the spines of our enemies.While talk like that might scare foreign tour operators and other visitors from traveling to Veduchi, it seems to have had little effect on the main market: Russians.While conceding that many impressions of Chechnya start with a negative background, Khasan Timizhev, the director of North Caucasus Resorts, said market research had shown that Russian skiers were more concerned about the condition and safety of the slopes rather than lawlessness or terrorist attacks.Whatever doubts outsiders might harbor about Chechnya, the few who turned out from nearby villages were more enthusiastic, saying the only other living to be made was in sheep herding.AdvertisementWe think the Chinese will come, said Albert Rabuyev, principal of the Itum-Kale village middle school, gazing at the chairs of the new lift gliding up and down the mountain.Mr. Rabuyev said he would even welcome gay men, because as visitors they would rent rooms, rent skis and then leave.Isa Abkarom, a vendor at a stand selling cups and other collectibles, said the long-promised resort came as good news for Chechnya. Everybody was just waiting for normal life to return, he said. We are happy to see the last of the war.The vision of ski resorts as pacification tools sprang from preparations for the 2014 Winter Olympics in the Black Sea resort of Sochi. The North Caucasus insurgency had raged over mountain territory, and so winter sports were a logical postwar development goal, officials said. Two additional resorts are planned by 2025, one in Ingushetia and the other in Dagestan.The two other resorts opened last season in neighboring regions reported 383,000 skiers combined. Crisp, sunny mountain weather draws visitors to the resorts, said Ekaterina Zhigalo, a spokeswoman for North Caucasus Resorts. Its a very good climate for health.A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Where Islamists Reigned, a Ski Resort Rises.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
FEB. 21, 2018
Good morning. You think youve got it bad with the February blues? Heres the top of Julia OMalleys latest story for us out of Anchorage, where produce is thin on the ground and the residents are absolutely lusting after fresh fruit and vegetables.This time of year, when the sun doesnt edge over the mountains until midmorning and starts to sink only a few hours later, this city feels a little like one big, icy strip-mall parking lot with a tremendous mountain view. Its so cold that the steering wheel hurts to touch. Life plays out under streetlight instead of daylight, and the rest of the world seems twice as far away as it did when the leaves were green.Talk to anybody and the conversation veers into two intertwined ideations: vacation and food.Its a terrific read, and further proof that if youre looking for a way to understand a place, sending a reporter to the supermarket is a good place to start.Here in New York, a bunch of us have been fantasizing about Yotam Ottolenghis latest column and recipes. Yotam has generally written about baking for The Times. This week, he strikes out into savory fare, and delivers two recipes for salmon that could enliven your cooking in the next few weeks: one, a simple pan-seared salmon with celery, olives and capers (above) for a weeknight; the other, an epic, special-occasion laxpudding of creamy potato gratin with smoked and fresh salmon.AdvertisementOf course, its Wednesday, and you may not want to cook from a recipe at all. Midweek in this shop, we cook narratively, with ideas rather than ratios. We think of it as improvisation off a theme.AdvertisementTodays is lamb and couscous, with dried fruits and nuts. Just massage a few lamb shoulder chops with salt and pepper, some ground cumin and coriander, cinnamon, red-pepper flakes. (You could use curry powder instead. Or a harissa paste. Something warm in its spiciness, nothing bright or acidic.) Then fry them in a big pot slicked with oil and, when theyre crisp at the edges and still quite pink inside, fish them out and put them on a cutting board to rest.While the lambs cooking, chop up a handful or two of mixed cocktail nuts, some raisins or prunes or dried currants or cranberries. Add those to the lamb fat in the big pot with a couple of cups of couscous. Stir that all around over medium heat for a few seconds, and then add two cups of chicken stock. Let it all come to the barest of simmers, then give the pot a final stir, put on the lid, turn off the heat and let it just sit, the hot broth filling out the couscous, the fat and the spices and the fruit giving it flavor.That will take about five minutes, during which you can take the lamb from its bones and cut it into cubes. Mix the meat into the couscous, and serve the pot with torn mint leaves and big glops of Greek yogurt. Start to finish, thats maybe 20 minutes? You could definitely get on it tonight.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Unless lamb is for you a hard pass. Thats fine! There are thousands and thousands of other recipes to consider making this week on NYT Cooking. Go look at a few and see what you like, then save the ones you like to your recipe box and organize them however you like. You can share recipes and rate them and leave notes on them, for yourself or others, to let people know about what changes youve made in preparation or ingredients.Well be standing by if anything goes wrong along the way. Just write us at cookingcare@nytimes.com. We genuinely like to help. It is why we are here.Now, a very far way from ginger and garlic, do read May Jeongs investigation into what happened to her friend Kim Wall on The Final, Terrible Voyage of the Nautilus, in Wired.In happier news, I like the hometown angle in The Vineyard Gazettes reporting on the marriage of comedian Amy Schumer.And you really shouldnt miss out on Andrew Kehs excellent reporting out of Gangneung, South Korea, on all the many delicious things there are to eat there, outside of the Olympic Village. Seolleongtang for all!Finally, Im heading down to South Florida tomorrow to do some reporting at the South Beach Wine and Food Festival. You can meet up with me there, live on our Facebook page on Friday afternoon at 2 p.m. Eastern. Ill be interviewing the chefs Andrew Zimmern, Angie Mar, Anita Lo, Missy Robbins and Amanda Cohen, along with Americas Jewish Mother, the great Joan Nathan.AdvertisementThen Ill push west into the backcountry of the Ten Thousand Islands of Everglades National Park, where theres no cell reception but snook stacked below the edge of the mangroves. (Hey, thats work, too!) So Ill be out of your inboxes until late next week. Tejal Rao will sit in my chair while Im gone, type beautiful sentences at you and tell you what to cook. Please welcome her. See you soon!Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Mini-Vows By                     
VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

FEB. 17, 2018
Angelina Elizabeth Darrisaw and Maurice Cheeks II are to be married Feb. 18 at the Sheraton Bay Point Resort in Panama City Beach, Fla. The Rev. Caroline Mack, who was ordained by the New Gate International Church, is to officiate.The bride, who is 30 and will be taking her husbands name, is the founder and chief executive of C-Suite Coach, a career coaching platform in New York that helps companies retain and engage diverse millennial talent. She graduated from Davidson College and received a master's degree in management from Wake Forest University.She is the daughter of Dr. Monique Darrisaw-Akil of Freeport, N.Y., and the stepdaughter of Shomari Akil. The brides mother is an assistant superintendent for secondary education, programs and policy in Brentwood, N.Y., for the Brentwood Union Free School District. Her stepfather is an administrator at New Rochelle High School in New Rochelle, N.Y.The groom, 29, is a broker in Jersey City for ICAP, a financial trading company. He graduated from Villanova.AdvertisementHe is the son of Rosalyn O. Simpson of Houston and Maurice Cheeks of Oklahoma City. The grooms mother retired as a mathematics teacher for the Houston Independent School District. His father is an assistant coach for the Oklahoma City Thunder in the National Basketball Association; he is a former player for the Philadelphia 76ers, San Antonio Spurs, Atlanta Hawks, New York Knicks and New Jersey Nets.AdvertisementMs. Darrisaw and Mr. Cheeks met at a party at his West Village apartment in February 2012.She was really pretty, Mr. Cheeks said, but I thought she was a little stuck-up.But he had scored a few points by ordering vegetarian appetizers from her favorite vegan restaurant.My first thought was that he was cute and kind of charming, she said. There was a bit of a spark.Several months later, Ms. Darrisaw, who was now single, was out with friends celebrating a new job. They were at a restaurant in Harlem when Mr. Cheeks, also unattached, walked through the door.He looked extra nice that day, said Ms. Darrisaw, who wasted no time turning that old spark into a new flame. You should take me on a date, she said, momentarily stunning Mr. Cheeks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Cheeks, who said that Ms. Darrisaw seemed on par with my original feeling that she was stuck up, said he simply told her, Fine, give me your number.He did not call that weekend. I thought maybe he just blew me off, she said.As it turned out, Mr. Cheeks lost his cellphone in a cab and had to ask their mutual friend, through Facebook, for Ms. Darrisaws number. When he finally connected with her in August 2012, she appeared to be putting him off, saying that she was headed to the 2012 Olympics in London, and would start a new job shortly thereafter. She also said she planned on spending about three months concentrating on her new job, which meant that she wouldnt be able to see him until October.At first I was aggressive with him, and then I went and flipped the script, Ms. Darrisaw said. So I thought for sure he wouldnt stick around.But Mr. Cheeks surprised her. I thought, O.K., shes very serious about her career, and thats a good thing, he said. If she wanted to take it slow, well, I had some time on my hands.AdvertisementOnce again, he scored a few more points.The fact that he was cool about my plan and he didnt seem offended made him very attractive to me, Ms. Darrisaw said. That told me that he was very respectful of my work and my boundaries.In October he called, and they went on a first date at the same restaurant where he had first ordered vegetarian appetizers for her.She was cooler and a lot more down to earth than I expected her to be, Mr. Cheeks said.She was feeling much the same about him. A part of me had thought that since he was the son of a great N.B.A. player, hed be a little full of himself, Ms. Darrisaw said. But we laughed so much and had such good chemistry together.I was never someone who kissed on a first date, she said, but I definitely did some kissing that night.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: The Delay Game Worked for Both of Them.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Australia Fare By                     
BESHA RODELL

FEB. 1, 2018

CreditPatrick Hamilton for The New York Times        GOLD COAST, Queensland — There are eight Outback Steakhouses in Australia: six in and around Sydney, one in suburban Brisbane and one on the Gold Coast, which is Australias sixth-largest city and a magnet for beach-going tourists. The American chain, which started in Tampa, Fla., in 1988, did not have any locations in Australia until 2001. The outback theme was entirely manufactured by a group of American businessmen, who purposely eschewed travel to this country in order to avoid the creep of authentic influence.Although steakhouses had been popular in Australia in the 1960s, they mostly died out when nouvelle cuisine hit in the 70s. There wasnt much of a steakhouse scene at all until Australian restaurateurs began imitating the American chain steakhouse boom of the 80s and 90s, which, curiously, was spurred in part by the success of Outback.If the founders of Outback had wanted to find a particularly Australian take on the genre, one with the populist appeal required for a successful chain restaurant, they might have done well to visit Cavs Steakhouse on the Gold Coast. Opened in 1984, Cavs is one of only a handful of surviving steakhouses with a true Australian soul.The Gold Coast is a place of constant change and rampant development, its famous beaches now lined with ever-proliferating high-rise condominiums and hotels. But Cavs has remained practically unchanged, and it offers a rare glimpse of Australian style and taste as it stood in the decades before the meta-feedback loop of Outback and Hogs Breath and Sizzler.AdvertisementCavs is owned by Richard Cavill, whose family history is deeply entwined with this part of Queensland. He is the great-grandson of James Freeman Cavill, a champion swimmer who is partially responsible for giving the Gold Coasts most famous beach enclave its name. Surfers Paradise was called Elston when James opened the Surfers Paradise Hotel in 1925, and it was James who successfully lobbied the local council to change Elstons name to Surfers Paradise in 1933.AdvertisementIn 1984 the Cavill family purchased the Beef Barron Restaurant in Labrador, a few miles from the site of the hotel (which by that point had been razed to make way for a shopping mall). The restaurant was gutted and given a distinctive design, which remains to this day and might be most accurately described as bovine hacienda chic.A life-size trio of slightly weather-beaten fiberglass cows once stood outside the restaurant on a three-level podium, Olympic style, but these days they rest with their heads over the white wooden fence, leaning a little to one side, as if slightly intoxicated. Inside, a long butcher case greets diners, showcasing the available steaks. To the back of the huge room, another cow stands over a large chair, wearing a cowboy hat and pursing its alarmingly red lips. You sit in the chair and take a photo with the cow, because of course you do.Drinks are ordered at the table from a wait staff that, at least during the summer, seems to be made up mainly of shy but eager teenagers. I can imagine that working at Cavs is a first-job rite of passage for certain local high schoolers. The bulk of your meal is ordered at the butcher counter: You tell them your table number, the steak you want (pointing is encouraged), the sauce you want (mushroom, chili, pepper or Dianne), the sides you want and anything extra. The most expensive steak is a 350-gram, grass-fed dry-aged eye filet (or filet mignon in American parlance) for $47.90. The larger, more flavorful T-bone is $38.90. Its a lot of meat. And its a bargain.Cavs is serious about its meat, so much so that a retail butcher shop operates in a small building separate from the restaurant. The provenance and aging details of each steak are given; eating and comparing them is a basic lesson in the variances of affordable, quality Australian beef.What Cavs does best is food that is exceedingly familiar and nostalgic to many Australians, particularly those of Anglo or European descent. The sausage platter, which can be ordered as a starter, is made with the same beef used for the steaks, but it tastes like a slightly fancified version of the all-Australian snag, the sausage youll find at every cookout and notoriously on weekends in front of Bunnings Warehouse, the national hardware chain.Steakhouses may have gone out of style, but steaks never did, especially not as the counter meal of choice at the thousands of pubs that form the heart of Australian social life. The steaks at Cavs are better than your average pub steak, but the sauces and sides are familiar. The bread and butter pudding served for dessert with whiskey sauce and vanilla ice cream tastes like pure childhood. This is not a bespoke dessert. There is nothing artisan about it. It would do very well at Outback.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It is not a good idea to order anything at Cavs much beyond those tried-and-true Australian classics. The mac and cheese is kind of wonderful in a gooey, tawdry way, but other forays into Americana are worrisome. Do not, under any circumstances, order the ribs platter. Even the Caesar salad is pushing your luck. A steak, a bread pudding and a picture with the cow are what youre here for.AdvertisementIn 2016, Richard Cavill announced plans to raze the stucco building and put up a gleaming new 13-story mixed-use building. Those plans have yet to come to fruition. But the strongest hunger in this part of Queensland is for real estate, not steaks, and certainly not history. If you want this particular taste of Australia, youd better act fast.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Timess Australia bureau would love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.30 Frank St(Brett Ave)Labrador07 5532 2954cavssteakhouse.comRecommended Dishes Steaks, mac and cheese, and bread pudding.Price $$$ (expensive)Open Daily for lunch and dinner.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access Dining room and restrooms are wheelchair accessible; the restroom does not have a handrail.
                This information was last updated: Feb. 17, 2018 Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 31, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.The State of the Union address in Washington, Cape Towns water crisis and an Olympic workout. Heres the news:•  This is our new American moment.That was President Trump in his first State of the Union speech. He challenged Democrats to join him in overhauling immigration and rebuilding infrastructure. He praised tax cuts and economic growth.But his year in office has not changed the dismal views that a sizable majority of Americans hold of him.Heres a video and an annotated transcript. We fact checked Mr. Trumps statements and the Democrats rebuttal._____• Critics called the Russian-sponsored peace conference on Syria a piece of theater that did not even pretend to foster discussion.AdvertisementMost Syrian rebel groups refused to go to the resort town of Sochi, where the meeting was held. Those that did refused to leave the airport.AdvertisementMeanwhile, airstrikes by the Syrian government and Russia continued._____• The Trump administration managed the unusual feat of outraging both Russias leaders in Moscow and Russias biggest critics.First, it angered members of Congress by declining to impose new sanctions called for in a law reluctantly signed by President Trump. Then it angered Moscow with a name-and-shame list of the Russian elite.In Russia, some joked that it took the U.S. government months to copy a Forbes ranking. (There were some notable omissions, our reporter points out.)_____• Day Zero is coming to Cape Town, South Africa.On that day, possibly as early as April, the water supply will run dry in the drought-stricken city of four million.For now, the city, one of Africas richest, is hoping for rain and bracing for the impact, in a frightening illustration of the risks of climate change._____• Early this morning, the moon slides behind Earths shadow during a lunar eclipse, turning it red like a giant rose in the predawn sky, our science correspondent writes.Many in Europe and Africa wont get to see the phenomenon, but youre in luck if youre reading this in Russia, the Middle East or the U.S.Advertisement(Perhaps the best view would be on the moon, where you would see Earths shadow consume your surroundings. For more background, see our moon guide.)_____• Heres a question: Has a fake account impersonated you on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram? Did you file a complaint? Did it get taken down?Wed like to hear from you.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Three corporate giants — Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase — are forming a company that could disrupt U.S. health care. Details were scarce, so we asked some experts to attempt to imagine the projects impact.• Volkswagen  suspended its chief lobbyist amid a growing furor over experiments on monkeys that were meant to promote the virtues of diesel-powered vehicles.• Facebook banned ads for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.• In an Op-Ed, a scientist argues that we shouldnt fear artificial intelligence: We actually understand this technology better than we understand human decision-making.•  Heres a snapshot of global markets.• The Catalan Parliament postponed a vote to re-elect Carles Puigdemont, the leader of the movement to break away from Spain, as president of the region. The standoff could force new elections. [The New York Times]• Two decades after war in Kosovo, peace remains built on the separation of Serbs and Albanians, our regional bureau chief writes in a dispatch from Mitrovica. [The New York Times]• Bosnias war crimes court charged the Bosnian Serb wartime police chief over his role in the massacre of up to 8,000 Muslim men and boys in Srebrenica in 1995. [Balkan Insight]Advertisement• The Kenyan government moved to criminalize a political opposition group as supporters of the opposition leader Raila Odinga rallied in Nairobi, the capital. [The New York Times]• Saudi Arabias government said that it had collected more than $100 billion from prominent citizens detained in what it called a crackdown on corruption. [The New York Times]• Pope Francis sent the Vaticans leading sex-crimes investigator to Chile. [The New York Times]• On our news podcast, our Kabul correspondent discusses the connection between the recent wave of violence there and the U.S. governments cutoff of security aid to Pakistan. [The New York Times]• Theres a controversy in Norway over its Alpine ski team uniforms. Team sweaters bear a rune that neo-Nazis have tried to co-opt. [The New York Times]• A trailer for the new movie Beirut, starring Jon Hamm, has been the subject of scathing criticism. Detractors say it stereotypes Arabs. [The New York Times]• A Hawaii state employee who sent a false missile alert that set off panic thought the threat was real, officials said, and has been fired. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• A reader asked what to do when her in-laws are suffocatingly nice. Setting boundaries is key.• Figuring out how to rebuild after infidelity often results in a stronger relationship.• Order delivery and make an easy chocolate fudge for dessert.Advertisement• Andreas Gursky, the German photographer, has turned to capturing scenes that never existed. We reviewed his new retrospective in London.• A new production of Mozarts Don Giovanni directed by Ivo van Hove, who has led fierce Broadway stagings, will be a highlight of the Paris Operas ambitious next season.• Ahead of the Winter Olympics, we tagged along on a workout with Lindsey Vonn, the most decorated World Cup ski racer in U.S. history.• Our team behind The Daily podcast reflects on the pleasures and surprises of its first year — and whats to come.• Our fashion editors compiled tips and tricks, inspired by the mens shows, of new ways to wear things.Milkshake duck just missed a spot in the Oxford Dictionaries, but the phrase was honored this month by Australias Macquarie Dictionary, which declared it the word of the year for 2017.Confused? Even if you dont know the word, you know the phenomenon, the committee said in its announcement.The phrase describes when a persons 15 minutes of fame is followed by an abrupt fall from grace when distasteful misdeeds are unearthed. In many ways, the committee said, that term captured the events of the past year.AdvertisementThe Australian cartoonist Ben Ward wrote an absurd tweet in 2016 about the phenomenon that raced across the internet last year.The whole internet loves Milkshake Duck, a lovely duck that drinks milkshakes! *5 seconds later* We regret to inform you the duck is racistThe joke poked at the ridiculous ability of social media to accelerate the cycle of adulation and backlash, Mr. Ward told us last summer, when we analyzed the memes meteoric rise. I didnt mean it to mock anyone — Im as susceptible to it as anyone else is, Mr. Ward added.Isabella Kwai contributed reporting._____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Social Qs By                     
PHILIP GALANES

FEB. 1, 2018
I am heartbroken! Please help me understand why friends have kept silent, not donated or even acknowledged my GoFundMe plea. I am recovering from breast cancer and cannot afford the medicine I need. Only one man, from the 50 requests I sent, has donated. At first, I made excuses: Its the holidays. Then I hoped folks were sending checks directly. Now, Ive started to think: If so-and-so gave up her latte once a week, she could donate. Its been over a month. How could close friends do this to me?ANONYMOUSBefore answering the social question, lets grapple with a moral one: When someone declares, I am heartbroken, does that become the immediate priority, requiring us to sugarcoat what follows in deference? Or is it better, as Nick Lowe put it musically, to be Cruel to Be Kind — speak the truth and damn the heartache, possibly causing more hurt to someone who doesnt really want advice? There are a million paths here. Try to choose kindly.Im sorry that you are hurt, Anonymous. I can imagine the anguish of feeling abandoned by your friends. But when making intimate and possibly life-altering requests of others, do it in person — or at least by phone or direct email. You have essentially put up a digital flyer in the town square, sending your pals a form letter over the internet. (I can see myself ignoring it.)I can also see how you talked yourself into this approach. Its awkward to ask friends for cash. Your route was less direct. And there are all those heartwarming stories of tiny children with medical needs awash in GoFundMe loot. But I suggest you start over. Get on the phone. Do not mention your hurt feelings at the internet appeal or, for the love of caffeine, suggest they economize to subsidize you. (Its their money!) Just ask from the heart. I predict happier results. Good luck!AdvertisementA sign in my gyms locker room reads: Please use a lock. Not responsible for lost or stolen items. Frustrated at searching for free lockers (because people stow their things, but dont use a lock — thus making lockers look free when they arent), I move the contents of unlocked lockers to the ledge above. I am trying to square the owners apparent indifference to what happens to their things (by failing to use a lock) with the idea that a locker is occupied. I am frustrated by the time-consuming search for unused lockers. And these people fail to follow instructions: Please use a lock.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.CONNIEPlease stop talking, Connie. And by all that is holy (in a locker room), I beg you to stop your attempts at logical squaring. They make you sound like a monster. The signs request for use of locks is merely a precursor to the gyms denial of liability for theft. It does not empower you to move an unlocked lockers contents into the open. And the notion that your inconvenience at opening a few lockers before finding one thats free somehow trumps … Well, were back to you sounding like a monster again.AdvertisementI am a 24-year-old woman living with two roommates. I am very thin, so much so that childrens clothing fits me. My roommate is borderline overweight — her doctors words, not mine! She was deeply distressed and in denial about her high B.M.I. when he told her. My heart went out to her. I think she looks great and have no judgments about her weight. But she constantly asks to borrow my clothes. And factually, we are just not the same size. What should I do?ANONYMOUSI applaud your sensitivity to the possibly ugly chain reaction here: You tell your roomie she is stretching out your clothes; she feels bad about her weight, which turns to icy resentment toward you. But we can finesse all that.Sometime when she has not just asked to borrow your Stella McCartney sweater (size 00), say, in private, Im not comfortable lending my clothes to you or Laura (your third roommate). Its taken me a while to work up the courage to tell you, but I dont like sharing clothes. I hope you dont mind. Of course, this approach also requires that you stop lending to your other roommate, and borrowing will also be off-limits. But we cant have everything.For my daughters fifth birthday, I am giving a house party: 16 girls from class and one princess (an actress). I gave parents the option to drop off their daughters. One friend eagerly accepted and told me she will also be leaving her 3-year-old. (Shes not much trouble, she said.) I dont believe I can manage an extra child, but I want to protect my friendship with the mother. Help!ANONYMOUSIts easy, Cinderella. Say, I love you and both your kids. But its going to be bedlam here. I just cant manage your younger daughter. Im sorry. If she doesnt understand (or offer to stay), there wasnt much of a friendship to protect.For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or to Philip Galanes on Facebook.A version of this article appears in print on February 3, 2018, on Page ST8 of the New York edition with the headline: Tightwad Friends.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
The Daily By                     
 MICHAEL BARBARO
 
FEB. 21, 2018
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherThe indictment secured by the special counsel makes it clear that Facebook was used extensively in the campaign to disrupt the 2016 election. How did Russia do it?The indictment secured by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, makes it clear that the most powerful weapon in Russias campaign to disrupt the 2016 election was Facebook.We look at how Russia used social media to sow divisions in the United States.On todays episode:• Kevin Roose, who writes about technology for The New York Times.Background reading:• Thirteen Russian citizens and three companies have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process. The charges have left many asking whether that interference tilted the election to Donald J. Trump.Advertisement• Some Facebook executives still seem more interested in defending themselves from criticism than in owning their mistakes related to the 2016 election.AdvertisementTune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.Kevin Roose contributed reporting.The Daily is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah and Clare Toeniskoetter, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:Re Facebook Doesnt Like What It Sees in the Mirror (Op-Ed, Jan. 17): If Facebook wants to take a more morally enlightened, responsible approach to social engagement, as Noam Cohen suggests is desirable, it can start by revising its algorithm. Facebooks recent overhaul of its News Feed that prioritizes what family members and friends share may simply reinforce what users already believe.A constructive step to bolster the social tolerance that underpins a robust society would be to provide users with more exposure to divergent opinions. Facebook could do this by changing its algorithm so that it increases the weight assigned to posts that provide dissonant information — messages that offer a different social viewpoint than the user holds. For example, if a user usually likes liberal posts, Facebook could configure it so that a conservative post gets prominent play in the News Feed.By presenting an information environment with greater exposure to positions that challenge an individuals attitudes, Facebook could increase open-mindedness, in keeping with Mark Zuckerbergs aim of advancing human potential.RICHARD M. PERLOFF, CLEVELANDThe writer is a professor of communication and political science at Cleveland State University.Advertisement
Bits By                     
DAISUKE WAKABAYASHI and


JACK NICAS

FEB. 23, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo, technology columnist at The New York Times, reviews the weeks news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Farhad is off this week so Daisuke Wakabayashi and Jack Nicas, tech reporters at The Times, are stepping in. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Dai: Hi everyone. Farhad is off on a family vacation this week. (Were not sure if he took his terrifying drone.) So our editor is leaving his work to us. Well try our best to match Farhads ratio of corny dad jokes to insight. Im taking the reins with Jack Nicas, who joined our tech team last week.Jack: Hello, readers! I now cover Apple for The Times and previously covered Google at The Wall Street Journal. Dai covers Google for The Times and used to cover Apple at The Journal. Interesting strategy by The Times.Dai: Its sort of like the business journalism equivalent of Parent Trap — maybe we can help reunite the two companies after their ugly divorce?AdvertisementI hear you went to Apple this week. How was that?Jack: Apple Park, its new campus that is often compared to a spaceship, is imposing. Coincidentally, it reminded me of the headquarters of a powerful tech colossus from a science-fiction novel. The people were nice, too. They liked that I had the new iPhone; they werent impressed with my $10 watch.AdvertisementDai: Did you see any coasters for the HomePods or people walking into glass?Jack: The meeting was off the record.Jack: Well, another week, and another example of the big tech platforms promoting misleading or downright false information. On Wednesday morning, YouTubes No. 1 trending video was a clip that seemed to push a conspiracy theory that some survivors of the Parkland, Fla., school shooting who have called for stricter gun control are actually paid actors. The video, of a TV news broadcast that included Parkland student David Hogg, carried the description: DAVID HOGG THE ACTOR….Dai: Its repugnant that anyone would keep pushing these conspiracy theories about kids who have already suffered so much, but this video was a little tricky. It was a video of a legitimate news story involving the student. It wasnt a false or doctored video, and the content itself didnt push a conspiracy. However, the title on the video framed this otherwise innocuous video as evidence of a broader conspiracy. Even the description isnt obviously inflammatory unless you understand the context of why this student is being called an actor. Man, YouTube cant bring on those 10,000 human checkers fast enough.YouTube took down the video before I had my morning coffee in California, but only after it attracted more than 200,000 views. YouTube said it has been trying to make changes so things like this dont happen, but in some circumstances these changes are not working quickly enough.Jack: This example also highlights another issue with YouTube: Its video recommendations can push people to misleading videos and conspiracy theories. YouTubes video-recommendation engine is engineered to keep you on the site. Its pretty darn good at it. YouTube said recommendations fueled a 10-fold increase in use of the site from 2012 to 2016, to more than 1 billion hours a day.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After I finished watching the trending two-minute David Hogg video on Wednesday, YouTube immediately began playing a new recommended video: a clip of Mr. Hogg speaking to reporters with the title, David Hogg Cant Remember His Lines When Interviewed for Florida School Shooting. YouTubes recommendation algorithm seeks out videos that are drawing traffic, and company engineers admit that approach can tend to reward sensational and salacious videos.YouTube can also contribute to so-called filter bubbles by feeding you videos with perspectives similar to those in videos you already watched. That also means its recommendations can be an embarrassing window into your psyche. I mean, I wouldnt want to reveal my recommendations to thousands of readers, like clips from comically bad movies or 1990s pro wrestling.Dai: Maybe that 90s wrestling knowledge will be useful when President Rock is in the White House.Jack: It wasnt just YouTube that spread false information about the shooting. There were also Facebook posts claiming survivors were so-called crisis actors, which were shared thousands of times. And your reporting with Sheera Frenkel this week showed that Twitter accounts suspected to be Russian bots mobilized to tweet about the Parkland school shooting shortly after it happened, often pushing both sides of the gun-control debate.AdvertisementDai: The sad reality is that whenever these tragic events take place in the near future, its going to be a test for these platforms to see how they weather the deluge of conspiratorial and false stories. Its gotten to the point where the first instinct for tech reporters is to search for key phrases on Google, YouTube, Facebook and Twitter. Much of the time, the results are disappointing.Jack: Meantime, the executives that run these sites have been slow to acknowledge the severity of the problem. After federal prosecutors last week indicted 13 Russians and three companies for spreading misinformation online in an attempt to subvert the 2016 election, Facebooks vice president for advertising, Rob Goldman, posted a series of tweets that downplayed their impact.Dai: Of course, he walked it back after President Trump amplified the comments to his followers, saying this was evidence that there was no collusion between his campaign and the Russians. Kevin Rooses column on this really brought it home. Those tweets from Mr. Goldman made it look like the companys P.R. strategy calls for prominent executives not named Zuckerberg to defend Facebook aggressively on social media — and it backfired in a major way.Jack: Before we sign off, can I pass along this additional bit of good news about the internet? Twitter and Facebook are rife with impostor accounts, and — stop me if youve heard this before — they are slow to crack down on them.Dai: Sometimes this feels like Sisyphus and the boulder. Farhad will be back next week with answers from many readers about the types of technology stories they want to read. Im already preparing my five Logan Paul stories.Daisuke Wakabayashi writes about Alphabet and its many arms, including Google. Jack Nicas covers Apple. Both also write about broader technology trends and Silicon Valley. You can follow them on Twitter here: @daiwaka and @jacknicasWere interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ERNESTO LONDOÑOFEB. 17, 2018
RIO DE JANEIRO — Worried that Brazilians will soon be flooded with fake news ahead of a critical presidential election, the country is setting out to crack down on organized efforts to intentionally mislead voters.The officials leading the effort argue that the right to free speech cannot come at the expense of an illegitimate outcome, in an election that could dramatically alter the course of Brazil, the worlds fourth-largest democracy.It is necessary to consider which of these two principles must be sacrificed in the name of an election that is neutral and not tainted by deceitful news, said Luiz Fux, a Supreme Court justice who recently assumed the presidency of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal, the highest authority on election laws and regulations. Sometimes the excessive concern with freedom of expression ends up violating a more important principle — the democratic principle.At Justice Fuxs direction, Brazils Federal Police recently established a task force of law enforcement and intelligence personnel, which is developing strategies to prevent fake news from being produced and to limit its reach once misleading content starts spreading online.AdvertisementIt is not our intention to infringe on anyones freedom of expression or their right to voice an opinion, said Eugênio Ricas, the director of the Federal Polices organized crime division, who is leading the fake news task force. The big question is when does a personal opinion become a lie about a candidate that is published with the specific intent of harming them and in doing so interfering with an election.AdvertisementJudicial officials say the task force is studying the tactics used by groups that have been active in spreading fake news in the past and assessing under which current laws they could most effectively be charged. They have also been consulting and negotiating with American technology companies, including Google, Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp, in hopes of turning them into partners in the fight against fake news rather than targets of enforcement actions and fines.If their initiative succeeds, Brazilian officials say that the October election, which will take place in a deeply polarized society, could serve as a template to address a problem that has undermined faith in democracy across the world.But officials acknowledge that they are up against vexing legal, technological and ethical quandaries. Key among them is a 2014 law that gives internet users in Brazil strong privacy and freedom of expression protections.While officials are mainly concerned about fake news strategies deployed by rival campaigns, not a foreign power, they caution that such tactics are often planned and executed abroad, which makes shutting them down difficult.Judicial and law enforcement officials have called on Congress to pass a law establishing clear rules and penalties for fake news. A bill introduced last year in the Senate would make intentionally spreading false information about issues that affect public health, public safety, the economy and the electoral process punishable by up to two years in prison.Yet it is unlikely that lawmakers will pass controversial legislation before the election, according to politicians and analysts.That leaves officials having to make use of laws and regulations they view as anachronistic for a 21st-century problem.AdvertisementThese include electoral and defamation penal codes that were passed before the internet existed, and a dictatorship-era public security law from the 1980s that prohibited spreading rumors with the potential to generate panic or unrest.Those laws are not adequate to apply to the tactics of today, Mr. Ricas said. The evolution of the internet and communication, he added, makes it hard to be relying on laws from the 80s, the 60s, the 40s.The legal situation has made building constructive relationships with technology companies a pinnacle of the plan.Social media companies like Facebook initially dismissed accusations that they had been a vehicle for sophisticated disinformation campaigns in the United States in 2016. Yet as evidence has mounted, the technology giants have sought to cast themselves as proactive stakeholders in the fight against fake news.They have a powerful incentive to cooperate because the tribunal headed by Justice Fux is in the process of finalizing guidelines for electoral advertising online. At a time when Brazilian politicians are increasingly turning to social media rather than traditional outlets to target voters, the social media platforms are positioned to make a windfall.This reliance on social media to get the campaigns messages out are expected to put the companies in the cross hairs of fake news disputes, and they say they are doing what they can to combat the problem.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The elections in Brazil are a priority for us, and we have been taking a series of steps to make sure our platform gives people a voice, encourages civic engagement and helps strengthen democracy, a press officer for Facebook said in an emailed statement. We have made several product improvements to reduce the reach of low quality content, eliminate the economic incentives behind most fake news, and prioritize content from trustworthy and informative sources.Google, which has been sued and fined dozens of times in Brazil as part of efforts to get online content removed, has met with judicial officials to explain the advances, and limitations, of its tools to combat fake news.While there is always more to do, we believe the actions we are taking will help prevent the spread of blatantly misleading, low quality and downright false information, a Google press officer said in a statement.AdvertisementLaw enforcement officials in Brazil have expressed particular interest in WhatsApp, the messaging app owned by Facebook, which has about 120 million active users in Brazil.While WhatsApp is in the middle of a legal battle before Brazils top court over its encryption practices, company representatives in Brazil recently told judicial officials they would abide by what it considered reasonable court orders requesting the suspension of accounts found to be systemically spreading fake news.While government officials and the technology companies representatives say their discussions have been cordial and productive to date, the companies have made it clear they do not intend to become arbiters of truth.A BBC World Service poll last year found that 92 percent of Brazilians expressed concern about being able to discern between fact and falsehood online, the highest percentage of respondents in any country surveyed. But just what constitutes fake news is up for debate.The two front-runners in the race — former president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, a leftist, and Congressman Jair Bolsonaro, a right-wing provocateur — have taken aim at news outlets for critical coverage, in much the same way President Trump has criticized American news organizations.Mr. Bolsonaro and his surrogates, for instance, labeled fake news an article in Folha de São Paulo that raised questions about how he and his family afforded their real estate holdings on public-servant salaries.Mr. da Silva is by far the leading target of negative fake news stories in Brazil, according to an analysis by Veja, a weekly newsmagazine, which recently published a cover story about misinformation campaigns. One example was an article falsely claiming that Mr. da Silva had said he would ascend to the presidency even if it meant trampling the federal judge who convicted him of corruption and money laundering last year.Mr. Bolsonaro is the rare Brazilian public figure who is the subject of more fake news stories that cast him in a positive light than a negative one, according to Vejas analysis. A spokesman for Mr. Bolsonaro did not respond to an emailed query about whether the campaign considers the use of fake news a legitimate electoral tactic. Mr. de Silva recently said such tactics should not be employed.AdvertisementMarina Silva, a former environment minister who is running third in the polls, announced that she was recruiting an army of volunteers to discredit the type of disinformation campaigns that she said derailed her past two bids for the presidency, in 2010 and 2014. False stories spread on social media about Ms. Silva before those elections included a claim that, as an evangelical, she intended to ban video games and an accusation that her bodyguards once fatally beat a gay man who tried to approach her.While there is widespread agreement among Brazilians that fake news has had a corrosive effect on the countrys democracy, some worry about the ramifications of a government crackdown. The Internet Rights Coalition, a civil society group that opposes regulation and censorship of online content, recently issued a public letter raising alarm about Brazils plans.We have already seen troublesome initiatives and a proliferation of laws aiming at active monitoring and regulating of online speech and delegating fact-checking to authorities, the group said.But Justice Fux pointed to the American election as a cautionary tale about what can happen if there is no effort to check false information.In the American election, freedom of expression trumped over fake news, he said. Here in our country we recognize that while a right may be exercised, it can also be abused.Lis Moriconi contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Brazil Mounts a Campaign Against Fake News.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SCOTT SHANEFEB. 18, 2018
They were politically active Americans scattered around the country, dedicating their spare time to the 2016 presidential campaign or various causes. And the seeming fellow activists who called them to rallies via Facebook, or joined in the free-for-all on Twitter, appeared unremarkable.Except that their English sometimes seemed a little odd.We are looking for friendship because we are fighting for the same reasons, someone purporting to be with an online group calling itself Blacktivist wrote via Twitter to the Rev. Dr. Heber Brown III, a Baltimore pastor, in April 2016. Actually we are open for your thoughts and offers.In late October 2016, in Nederland, Tex., the Texas Nationalist Movement got a Facebook message from someone representing a group called Heart of Texas, which planned to organize rallies in favor of Texas secession on the eve of the election. But on a follow-up call, something was off, said Daniel Miller, the president of the Texas Nationalist Movement.Despite their wariness, neither Dr. Brown nor Mr. Miller had any inkling of what was really behind those odd encounters. Heart of Texas and Blacktivist were phony groups, part of a sweeping Russian disinformation campaign that was funded with millions of dollars and carried out by 80 people operating out of St. Petersburg, Russia.AdvertisementThe Russian attempt at long-distance choreography was playing out in many cities across the United States. Facebook has disclosed that about 130 rallies were promoted by 13 of the Russian pages, which reached 126 million Americans with provocative content on race, guns, immigration and other volatile issues.
                Thirteen Russian nationals have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process through inflammatory social media posts and organized political rallies.            An indictment filed in court on Friday by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the election, laid out for the first time, in riveting detail, how Russia carried out its campaign on social media. And while the indictment did not suggest any involvement by President Trump or his associates, it did say many Americans engaged with the Russian trolls without knowing who or where they really were.AdvertisementSome defendants, posing as U.S. persons and without revealing their Russian association, communicated with unwitting individuals associated with the Trump campaign and with other political activists to seek to coordinate political activities, the indictment said. Among others, it said, the Russians contacted a real U.S. person affiliated with a Texas-based grass-roots organization, who advised them to focus their efforts on purple states like Colorado, Virginia and Florida.The indictment did not name the activist, but Mr. Miller said in an interview that the mention had set off a slightly unnerving guessing game in his state as to who the helpful Texan might be. It was not him, he said.Every organization in Texas thats been politically involved over the last few years is sort of eyeing the other ones, said Mr. Miller, whose group decided not to endorse the Heart of Texas rallies. Muellers team needs to clarify this. (A spokesman for Mr. Mueller declined to comment.)Sometimes the Russian efforts fell flat. Dr. Brown had challenged Blacktivist on Twitter because it seemed to be an out-of-town group, yet it was calling for a Baltimore rally to mark the anniversary of the death of Freddie Gray, who sustained a fatal injury while in police custody. The pastor had no idea just how far out of town.
            So when I confronted #Blacktivist for pushing a #FreddieGray rally in #Baltimore I was disrupting an op from #Russia?https://t.co/Wso8RSyYqt pic.twitter.com/x2BwmtzHeM The way youre going about this is deeply offensive to those of us who are from Baltimore and have been organizing here all our lives, Dr. Brown wrote to the stranger.Seemingly chastened, Blacktivist replied, This must be really wrong. I feel ashamed.The pastor replied: Post a public apology. Cancel the event and take your cues from those working locally.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Heart of Texas group had more success with a Houston rally to Stop the Islamization of Texas, which provoked an angry confrontation in May 2016. United Muslims of America, another Russian creation, called its own rally to Save Islamic Knowledge for the same time and place, outside the Islamic Dawah Center.AdvertisementA dozen people who turned out for the first event, some carrying rifles, Confederate flags and a banner saying White Lives Matter, faced off across a street with a far larger crowd of counterprotesters. The police kept the crowds apart, and there was no trouble at the event, which was caught on video.Later, on social media, some puzzled participants complained that no one from Heart of Texas, which had about 250,000 likes on Facebook, had shown up for the groups own rally.But the online pitches reached a big audience. In written answers to questions from the Senate Intelligence Committee, Facebook said some 338,300 people saw the announcements of rallies promoted by the bogus pages — and 62,500 said they planned to attend one. Those numbers are modest against the background of the entire presidential campaign, but they show that the Russians were able not just to attract Americans to their ersatz groups but actually manipulate their actions.The fact that they got people to show up at real-world events is impressive, said Renee DiResta, the head of policy at Data for Democracy, a nonprofit that has studied the Russian activity. What we have is an engine for reaching people and growing an audience, which is fantastic. But this shows that it can be used for very shady purposes.How do bots and trolls work to infiltrate social media platforms and influence U.S. elections? We take a closer look at these insidious online pests to explain how they work.Facebooks vice president for advertising, Rob Goldman, said on Twitter on Friday, I have seen all of the Russian ads and I can say very definitively that swaying the election was *NOT* the main goal — a statement that President Trump retweeted.But Mr. Muellers indictment repeatedly states that the Russian operation was designed not just to provoke division among Americans but also to denigrate Hillary Clinton and support her rivals, mainly Mr. Trump. The hashtags the Russian operation used included #Trump2016, #TrumpTrain, #MAGA and #Hillary4Prison, and one Russian operative was reprimanded for a low number of posts dedicated to criticizing Hillary Clinton, the indictment says.A glance at the Russian posts supports the idea that they focus on candidates. Heart of Texas ran an unflattering portrait of Mrs. Clinton with the tag Pure Evil; posted a fake photo of her shaking hands with Osama bin Laden; and paired her with Adolf Hitler as a supporter of gun control. Mr. Trump was shown surrounded by police officers wearing Trump hats and grinning outside a fake cage with Mrs. Clinton inside.While most of the Americans duped by the Russian trolls were not public figures, some higher-profile people were fooled. The indictment mentions the Russian Twitter feed @TEN_GOP, which posed as a Tennessee Republican account and attracted more than 100,000 followers. It was retweeted by Donald Trump Jr.; Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor; Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser; and his son, Michael Flynn Jr.They have expressed no regret that they were apparently taken in by the Russian operatives. Instead, since Fridays indictment, Donald Trump Jr., like his father, has pointed mainly to the fact that it did not accuse the president or his associates of assisting the Russian operation.Jeremy Bowers contributed research.Read the special counsels indictment against 13 Russians and three companies here.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: How Russians  Exploited Web In 16 Meddling.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and GABRIEL J.X. DANCEFEB. 20, 2018
When Hilary Mason, a data scientist and entrepreneur, discovered that dozens of automated bot accounts had sprung up to impersonate her on Twitter, she immediately set out to stop them.She filed dozens of complaints with Twitter, repeatedly submitting copies of her drivers license to prove her identity. She reached out to friends who worked at the company. But days later, many of the fake accounts remained active, even though virtually identical ones had been shut down.Millions of accounts impersonating real people roam social media platforms, promoting commercial products and celebrities, attacking political candidates and sowing discord. They spread fake images and misinformation about the school shooting last week in Parkland, Fla. They were central to Russian attempts to sway the 2016 presidential election in favor of Donald J. Trump, according to a federal grand jury indictment on Friday. And American intelligence officials believe they will figure in Russian efforts to shape the coming midterm elections, too.Yet social media companies often fail to vigorously enforce their own policies against impersonation, an examination by The New York Times found, enabling the spread of fake news and propaganda — and allowing a global black market in social identities to thrive on their platforms.AdvertisementFacebook and Twitter require proof of identity to shut down an impostor account but none to set one up. And even as social media accounts evolve into something akin to virtual passports — for shopping, political activity and even gaining access to government services — technology companies have devised their own rules and standards, with little oversight or regulation from Washington.AdvertisementThese companies have, in a lot of ways, assigned themselves to be validators of your identity, said Jillian York, an official at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which advocates digital privacy protections. But the vast majority of users have no access to any due process, no access to any kind of customer service — and no means of appealing any kind of decision.Some impostor accounts are set up as pranks. Millions of them are controlled by private companies that sell fake followers and other forms of social media engagement to celebrities, professional athletes and authors. Many others are deployed in systematic information warfare campaigns waged by governments.In congressional hearings last week, some lawmakers questioned whether social media businesses were doing enough.I think the companies themselves were slow to recognize this threat, said Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia. I think theyve still got more work to do.Leaders of some social media companies have said they are trying hard to grapple with impersonation. In an earnings call this month, Jack Dorsey, Twitters chief executive, said the company was expanding what it calls information quality efforts, including ways of elevating credible and authentic content on the platform.Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, wrote in a Facebook post in January that the company had nearly doubled the number of workers who review content for fake news and abuse, including impersonation.Facebooks terms of service prohibit impersonation and require that account holders generally use their real names. Twitter, however, allows parody accounts and pseudonyms, and only forbids impersonation when that account portrays another user in a misleading or deceptive manner. The company does not proactively review accounts for impersonation.AdvertisementThat policy can leave real users mystified or enraged. In December, Firoozeh Dumas, an Iranian-American memoirist who lives in Germany, repeatedly reported to Twitter at least four accounts impersonating hers. They have my photos, they tweet things from my books, she said. One of them seems to be selling things.Yet each time Ms. Dumas reported them, emails show, Twitters support team told her the accounts did not meet its definition of abusive impersonation.A Times investigation last month found that many real accounts are copied and turned into automated bots sold by companies like Devumi, a firm now based in Colorado that is under investigation by attorneys general in Florida and New York. (Through a spokesman, Devumi has denied selling fake accounts.)One victim was Erin Barnes, a publicist and writer in Colorado. A bot sold by Devumi used not only her name and portrait, but also a background photograph of her husband and young daughter. It makes my skin crawl, Ms. Barnes said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The account was suspended only recently, after Ms. Barnes — alerted by The Times — reported it to Twitter. If youre using somebodys photos and name together, then thats impersonation, she complained.Twitter appears to be tracking Devumis network of bots. Since the Times investigation was published, dozens of Devumis most prominent clients — actors, reality TV stars, authors, business executives and others seeking to buy followers and retweets — have lost more than three million followers. Close to 55,000 impostor accounts sold by Devumi have been restricted or suspended.Twitter has declined to say whether Devumis bots violate its impersonation policy, or how many of its employees are focused on rooting out impersonation. The companys first line of defense against impersonation is the countermeasures that flag accounts that run afoul of Twitter policies on spam — violations that can be easier for the platform to identify and stop at large scale.But impostor accounts are still relatively easy to find on Twitter. The Times identified hundreds more of them through Twitters own automated who to follow feature: When a user views a known impostor account, Twitter routinely recommends other impostor accounts to follow.One real Twitter account, belonging to Jasmine Artis, a health care worker from North Carolina, was cloned dozens of times. At least 75 of those impostor accounts still exist — though some have recently been restricted — each using her picture, her name and a brief bio that refers to the school she was attending when her account was copied. Most of the clones have made only a handful of posts, some in Russian or Japanese. Ms. Artis said she had not been aware of the accounts.AdvertisementEven Twitters verified users, many of them well known, are being impersonated. There are active fake accounts impersonating the Democratic senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, the White House adviser Kellyanne Conway and the journalist April D. Ryan. None appeared to be obvious parodies. Instead, each posted content that mimicked what the real account might tweet.Both Facebook and Twitter rely in part on their users to report impostors and abuse. But the companies enforcement decisions can seem arbitrary. In January, Antonia Caliboso, a social worker in Seattle, discovered an impostor Facebook account using her name, biographical information and a photo, all lifted from a 2013 news release about a fellowship she had won.Ms. Caliboso and dozens of her friends reported the fake account to Facebook over a period of weeks. But Facebook representatives repeatedly told her the account did not violate the companys impersonation policies, she said. Eventually, to protect herself, Ms. Caliboso deleted her real account.I cant risk that a client or employer — past, present or future — might find that profile, she said.Last week, Facebook reversed its position: The account was shut down, according to an email Ms. Caliboso received on Feb. 10, because it goes against our community standard on identity and privacy.Social media companies succeed in the marketplace by amassing as many active users as possible, so most make it relatively easy to create new accounts. Neither Facebook nor Twitter requires proof of identity to open a new account, but both require it when reporting impostors. Decisions about whether to take down or suspend an account are automated wherever possible, or farmed out to teams of low-level employees and contractors around the world.As a result, on most social media platforms it is far easier to build a bot than to kill one.The reason that theyre so bad at this is that it conflicts with their business model, said Zeynep Tufekci, a sociologist and technology expert at the University of North Carolina. They try to come up with one set of rules that applies to two billion people, and then simplify it so that a contractor in a warehouse in the Philippines can go click-click-click and apply the policy.Ms. Mason, the data scientist, eventually took matters into her own hands. After she filed dozens of impersonation reports to Twitter in 2015, the company suspended many of the impostors, but left dozens untouched.So she created more than 100 bots of her own, using as many variations of her name as she could think of. Each linked back to her real account, with the message the real hmason is over there. Eventually, Ms. Masons homegrown bots, and Twitters own efforts, seemed to overwhelm the impostors, she said, and the surge in fake accounts stopped.AdvertisementWith Twitter, it was easy to make bots, Ms. Mason said. I was shocked by how easy it was.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: How Lax Enforcement Breeds Impostors Online.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Compiled by NANCY WARTIKFEB. 23, 2018
Im a trained opera singer, wrote Sara LeMesh, a Times reader who lives in San Francisco, and even though I no longer sing full time, Im proud that Ive sung all over the world with some of the most famous musicians of the 21st century!We often use the Reader Center Facebook community, a private group we started in January, to talk to some of our dedicated Times readers about the news and our coverage of it. But this week we tried something different.The discussion took off immediately, and some of our journalists in the group jumped in as well. The responses inspired us, touched us, made us laugh.Wed like to share some responses here and invite you, our larger group of readers, to join the conversation. Whats something in your life youre incredibly proud of? Large or small, all that matters is that its something important to you. Please share your accomplishment in the comments.AdvertisementThe responses below have been lightly edited for clarity.Terence Hurley, San Francisco: Last fall my wife and I walked every step of the Camino de Santiago, a 500-mile pilgrimage from France to the Santiago de Compostela in Spain where it is believed the bones of St. James the Apostle are held. We did it in 30 days, me at the age of 63. It was an incredible experience.AdvertisementShasta Gaughen, Escondido, Calif.: Im proudest that I am an anthropologist. I decided I wanted a Ph.D. in anthropology when I was a young teen, and I did it … although I didnt finally finish and defend my dissertation until I was 39! Its definitely my proudest personal accomplishment.From a professional standpoint, about a year and a half ago I was instrumental in stopping the construction of a landfill right next to the Indian reservation where I work. The tribe had been fighting it for 30 years. It would not only have put wildlife and water in danger (it was right next to a river that, while dry most of the year, had underground streams that supply drinking water to several communities), but it would have piled garbage two thirds of the way up the side of a sacred mountain that is one of the homes of a traditional ancestral spirit.The day we announced publicly that the tribe was able to buy the land and save the sacred mountain was one of the proudest of my life.John Schwartz, reporter at The New York Times: I can play the William Tell Overture on my teeth. (I cover climate change for the NYT. This skill is not relevant to the beat, but its still something Im proud of.)Lexi Rindone, Baltimore: Kind of random, but I was the world sport stacking (a.k.a. cup stacking) champion in 2006. I had the privilege of stacking on a couple national morning shows in N.Y.C., and it was an amazing experience! I do not stack very often anymore. However, I occasionally get my cups out and practice some stacking when time permits. ὠ9Fadi BouKaram, Beirut, Lebanon: Two years ago I quit my job as a U.S. tax law consultant in Beirut, threw my two Masters degrees down the drain, flew to the U.S. and went on a six-month RV road trip across the country, photographing the 40+ towns there called Lebanon.Im going back for round two in June, this time distributing cedar trees (Cedar of Lebanon) to these towns as a gesture of good will. Not comfortable bragging, but since you asked, because of this trip, I got on NPR four times, public radio in Quebec and Ireland, got a feature story on CNN and in Foreign Policy magazine and a TV interview in Nashville.AdvertisementThe reason Im proud of this is because, after 15 years of working in a field that I wasnt crazy about, I took a chance and it went all right.Lela Moore, audience writer and comment moderator at The New York Times: My proudest accomplishment is running the Boston Marathon last April while five months pregnant. Wasnt my fastest time but a really great experience. And now my son has my bib framed over his changing table!Pedro Duarte, Brasília, Brazil: This post is really cool — lots of interesting stories here. Running a marathon while pregnant? Amazing!My pride concerns having written a novel. I know its not necessarily that much of a feat — books can be either good or bad, and I still havent had any validating response from publishers, but for me it is more like an existential thing, as I feel I had never taken up such long-term, focused work before.Geralda Miller, Reno, Nev.: Last October, my business partner and I put on the Reno Mural Expo. We invited 30 dynamic artists, including two international, 12 national and 16 local, to paint walls on businesses and alleys around downtown Reno, Nev. We now have a beautiful outdoor gallery and put on the largest public art event in Northern Nevada. Heres one of my faves.Deb Amlen, editor at The New York Times: Proud of the young adults my children have become, but also getting back on my feet after getting divorced. At the time, I was a stay-at-home mom with no independent income, and I had to learn in midlife to take care of myself and my kids financially.Seven years later, I am financially stable and am grateful to work for a terrific company as the crossword columnist and editor of Wordplay.Julia Lansford, Queens, N.Y.: Getting published in NYT! Im not a native English speaker but I strive to write well. Writing is my passion in life. When I saw my little piece published last year I was very excited, and yes, proud.AdvertisementDavid Heim, Chesapeake, Va.: I served my country for 24 years and I was the senior Naval officer in country in Somalia as a lieutenant commander. I coordinated the military sealift to get all the U.S. troops out of country after the Black Hawk Down debacle. Lily Jane Clarke, Swan Valley, Mont.: My Fulbright Scholarship to study mushrooms in Nepal!Nick Kelton, Gainesville, Fla.: After many internships and a lot studying, I got a full-time offer to work for SpaceX as a propulsion engineer a couple weeks ago, cant wait to get started in April!Your turn now. Please tell us in the comments what youre most proud of.An earlier version of this article misstated the surname of the Wordplay editor. She is Deb Amlen, not Amien.The Reader Center is one way we in the newsroom are trying to connect with you, by highlighting your perspectives and experiences and offering insight into how we work. Follow the Reader Center on Twitter: @ReaderCenter.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.The Facebook co-founders rise was meteoric. He argues that the same forces that helped him succeed have made it harder for others. In a new book, Fair Shot, he proposes a bold solution.By CONCEPCIÓN DE LEÓNFEB. 21, 2018
Chris Hughes was raised by Lutheran parents in Hickory, N.C., and they taught him, by example, to tithe. Every year, they gave 10 percent of their income to the church and other local charities, and Mr. Hughes carried that tradition into adulthood. But in 2008, when he sold $1 million of his Facebook shares on private markets, and the amount of money he needed to give away increased exponentially, he started thinking more seriously about where his contributions might make the most impact.I grew up looking at the price almost down to the penny on everything from a bottle of juice to a can of soda, he told me in early February, explaining why he wanted to get the most value out of philanthropy. We were sitting in the East Village office of the Economic Security Project, an organization Mr. Hughes co-founded with two other activists, Dorian Warren and Natalie Foster, to fund the work of technologists, academics, policymakers and others exploring the idea of a guaranteed basic income for low- and middle-income Americans.Mr. Hughes is one of the co-founders of Facebook, for which he did three years worth of work for nearly half a billion dollars, as he puts it, emphasizing the extreme nature of his success. He and Mark Zuckerberg were roommates at Harvard, and early on, Mr. Hughes ran the companys communications and marketing department. The social networks colossal success fast-tracked Mr. Hughess career. In 2008, he joined Barack Obamas first presidential campaign to launch and manage My.BarackObama.com, a robust system that organized Obama supporters and was viewed as instrumental to his victory. In 2012, when Facebook went public and The New Republic came up for sale, he bought it, hoping to herald the publication into a digital future and expand its reach. His tumultuous ownership ended in 2016, when he sold the magazine. Later that year, he joined with Mr. Warren and Ms. Foster to form the Economic Security Project.In his new book, Fair Shot: Rethinking Inequality and How We Earn, out this week, Mr. Hughes, 34, traces his ascent to show how the forces that influenced his and Facebooks success — technological advancements, globalization and the rise of private equity firms — have created a winner takes all economy in which only a small group of people succeed.AdvertisementI think that when people enjoy success of many sorts it is oftentimes easy to forget all of the factors that contribute to making that possible, he said, citing his own upbringing. He grew up in a stable, middle-class family, the only child of a paper salesman and a schoolteacher. As a child, he took advantage of government-run after-school programs and was placed in gifted classes. At 14, he searched online for the best high school in America, turning up Phillips Academy, a prestigious private school in Andover, Mass.; Mr. Hughes applied and talked his way into a scholarship. All these factors, he argues, factored into his success even before he landed in a dorm room with Mr. Zuckerberg.In Fair Shot, he offers a solution to balance the scale: a guaranteed income of $500 a month for adults earning less than $50,000, including nontraditional workers like parents and students. His proposal is that such a program be paid for through a tax on the countrys highest earners, those whose annual income is $250,000 or more. His plan would reach 60 million adults and lift 20 million out of poverty overnight, he writes, while providing those in the middle class with more financial stability.The guaranteed income as an idea is so simple that oftentimes people just sort of skip over the power of cash itself, Mr. Hughes said. We think, Oh my God, income inequality — its so incredible, all the stats are so insane, but what can we do about it? Its got to be education or its got to be more job training. Its got to be a higher minimum wage. I say, Yes, yes and yes. But we need to do more, he insists.AdvertisementThe Economic Security Projects office is part university library, part tech start-up, with dark leather and wood furniture alongside a white meeting pod near the entrance. It seems to reflect Mr. Hughess sensibilities — his admiration for old, established institutions and his embrace of digital technology. When I arrive for our interview, Mr. Hughes greets me warmly, and we sit in what appears to be the offices only conference room, enclosed by a glass wall. His Southern accent is barely detectable, and in conversation, he is measured and cautious, laying out his argument with his hands, becoming riled only when I bring up the tax bill (the most perplexing and infuriating move) and the fact that some might view their success as completely self-generated (thats just flat wrong).Before he started the Economic Security Project, Mr. Hughes had been working on the issue of the guaranteed income internationally through GiveDirectly, a nonprofit that, as the name suggests, operates a cash transfer program that puts money into the hands of those who need it. Mr. Hughes was inspired by the organizations ideals, and he started to wonder whether a similar model could work domestically.There was no real organization in the United States focused on exploring how a guaranteed income might work, he said.But rather than go in guns blazing, he explained, we said: This is a promising idea. Lets bring together a network of people to think about this collaboratively and see where it goes. The Economic Security Project was originally conceived as a temporary, two-year initiative, but has since been extended to 2020.Mr. Hughess cautiousness is a direct result of his experience at The New Republic. Despite his intention to make it a publication that millions of people would adore and really value, the result was not so idyllic. He invested $25 million, moved the magazine to a slick new office and hired top talent from other publications. By late 2014, his investment was not paying off, and he brought in Guy Vidra, a former Yahoo executive, to be the C.E.O., hoping he might be able to make The New Republic a digital media company. Mr. Vidra and Mr. Hughes decided to replace Franklin Foer, the editor at the time, but the news reached Mr. Foer first, and he resigned, prompting mass resignations across the publication. What followed was a media maelstrom, and a little over a year later, unable to turn the publications profits around, Mr. Hughes sold the magazine.Chris was pretty anxious about where things were headed, Mr. Foer said on a recent call, adding: There were lots of larger forces remaking journalism, and because of Chriss biography and because of some of the ham-fisted ways in which he handled things, he kind of fell into a morality play. It was pretty easy to cast the story as a parable about journalism, and I think that helps explain the heat of the coverage that fell on him.In retrospect, Mr. Hughes said he regretted his approach at The New Republic. I went in with very big-picture kinds of goals and went too far too fast, he said, before I could ask. Now, I work on this big-picture, similarly idealistic kind of idea of a world where everyone has some basic financial security through cash, but I dont think we necessarily need to start off by giving $1,000 to everybody.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The plausibility of his idea is a matter of debate. Branko Milanovic, a leading scholar on income inequality, and Dean Baker, a senior economist at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, both believe the plan is unrealistic given the partisan divisions of the current political climate. Mr. Baker also noted that policy changes to restructure the economy, such as weaker patent and copyright laws and public funding for generic medication, were a more urgent need. The Stanford professor and economist Nicholas Bloom brought up the potential for fraud, adding that government enforcement would be difficult.Mr. Hughes is aware that his proposal is far-reaching. This is a big idea and its an expensive idea, but I do think that it is in line with the scale of the problem, which is also immense, he said.Mr. Hughes said his own windfall gave him the mental space to think about and pursue his goals, and now, he feels a responsibility to pay it forward. When I ask him where this impulse comes from, his face softens. From my parents. His father wanted him to be successful, he explained, but there was also a sense that you dont do better at the expense of others.AdvertisementGiving people cash, in Mr. Hughess view, is not only the most effective way to tackle inequality today, it is also the most humane: Its truly a belief that people can be trusted and deserve the opportunity to design their lives, to chase their own dreams.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter, and sync your calendar with curated literary events.A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Inequality: A Secret  To His Success.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SHEERA FRENKEL and DAISUKE WAKABAYASHIFEB. 19, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — One hour after news broke about the school shooting in Florida last week, Twitter accounts suspected of having links to Russia released hundreds of posts taking up the gun control debate.The accounts addressed the news with the speed of a cable news network. Some adopted the hashtag #guncontrolnow. Others used #gunreformnow and #Parklandshooting. Earlier on Wednesday, before the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., many of those accounts had been focused on the investigation by the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.This is pretty typical for them, to hop on breaking news like this, said Jonathon Morgan, chief executive of New Knowledge, a company that tracks online disinformation campaigns. The bots focus on anything that is divisive for Americans. Almost systematically.One of the most divisive issues in the nation is how to handle guns, pitting Second Amendment advocates against proponents of gun control. And the messages from these automated accounts, or bots, were designed to widen the divide and make compromise even more difficult.AdvertisementAny news event — no matter how tragic — has become fodder to spread inflammatory messages in what is believed to be a far-reaching Russian disinformation campaign. The disinformation comes in various forms: conspiracy videos on YouTube, fake interest groups on Facebook, and armies of bot accounts that can hijack a topic or discussion on Twitter.AdvertisementThose automated Twitter accounts have been closely tracked by researchers. Last year, the Alliance for Securing Democracy, in conjunction with the German Marshall Fund, a public policy research group in Washington, created a website that tracks hundreds of Twitter accounts of human users and suspected bots that they have linked to a Russian influence campaign.The researchers zeroed in on Twitter accounts posting information that was in step with material coming from well-known Russian propaganda outlets. To spot an automated bot, they looked for certain signs, like an extremely high volume of posts or content that conspicuously matched hundreds of other accounts.
                Thirteen Russian nationals have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process through inflammatory social media posts and organized political rallies.            The researchers said they had watched as the bots began posting about the Parkland shooting shortly after it happened.Amplified by bot swarms, Russian-linked Twitter accounts tried to foment discord before and after the election. Hundreds of accounts promoted false stories about Hillary Clinton and spread articles based on leaked emails from Democratic operatives that had been obtained by Russian hackers.Facebook, Google and Twitter have, to varying degrees, announced new measures to eliminate bot accounts, and have hired more moderators to help them weed out disinformation on their platforms.But since the election, the Russian-linked bots have rallied around other divisive issues, often ones that President Trump has tweeted about. They promoted Twitter hashtags like #boycottnfl, #standforouranthem and #takeaknee after some National Football League players started kneeling during the national anthem to protest racial injustice.The automated Twitter accounts helped popularize the #releasethememo hashtag, which referred to a secret House Republican memorandum that suggested the F.B.I. and the Justice Department abused their authority to obtain a warrant to spy on a former Trump campaign adviser. The debate over the memo widened a schism between the White House and its own law enforcement agencies.AdvertisementThe bots are going to find any contentious issue, and instead of making it an opportunity for compromise and negotiation, they turn it into an unsolvable issue bubbling with frustration, said Karen North, a social media professor at the University of Southern Californias Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism. It just heightens that frustration and anger.Intelligence officials in the United States have warned that malicious actors will try to spread disinformation ahead of the 2018 midterm elections. In testimony to Congress last year and in private meetings with lawmakers, social media companies promised that they will do better in 2018 than they did in 2016.But the Twitter campaign around the Parkland shooting is an example of how Russian operatives are still at it.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Weve had more than a year to get our act together and address the threat posed by Russia and implement a strategy to deter future attacks, but I believe, unfortunately, we still dont have a comprehensive plan, said Senator Mark Warner, the Virginia Democrat who is the vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, during a hearing this month on global threats to the United States. What were seeing is a continuous assault by Russia to target and undermine our democratic institutions, and theyre going to keep coming at us.When the Russian bots jumped on the hashtag #Parklandshooting — initially created to spread news of the shooting — they quickly stoked tensions. Exploiting the issue of mental illness in the gun control debate, they propagated the notion that Nikolas Cruz, the suspected gunman, was a mentally ill lone killer. They also claimed that he had searched for Arabic phrases on Google before the shooting. Simultaneously, the bots started other hashtags, like #ar15, for the semiautomatic rifle used in the shooting, and #NRA.The bots behavior follows a pattern, said Mr. Morgan, one of the researchers who worked with the German Marshall Fund to create Hamilton 68, the website that monitors Russian bot and fake Twitter activity. The bots target a contentious issue like race relations or guns. They stir the pot, often animating both sides and creating public doubt in institutions like the police or media. Any issue associated with extremist views is a ripe target.The goal is to push fringe ideas into the slightly more mainstream, Mr. Morgan said. If well-known people retweet the bot messages or simply link to a website the bots are promoting, the messages gain an edge of legitimacy.An indictment made public on Friday by Mr. Mueller as part of the investigation into Russian interference in the election mentioned a Russian Twitter feed, @TEN_GOP, which posed as a Tennessee Republican account and attracted more than 100,000 followers. Messages from this now-deleted account were retweeted by the presidents sons and close advisers including Kellyanne Conway and Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser.AdvertisementThe indictment also described how fraudulent Russian accounts on Twitter tried to push real Americans into action. The indictment said the fake Twitter account @March_for_Trump had organized political rallies for Mr. Trump in New York before the election, including a March for Trump rally on June 25, 2016, and a Down With Hillary gathering on July 23, 2016.By Friday morning, the bots that pushed the original tweets around the Parkland shooting had moved on to the hashtag #falseflag — a term used by conspiracy theorists to refer to a secret government operation that is carried out to look like something else — with a conspiracy theory that the shooting had never happened.By Monday, the bots had new targets: the Daytona 500 auto race in Daytona Beach, Fla., and news about William Holleeder, a man facing trial in the Netherlands for his suspected role in six gangland killings. It is unclear why.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @daiwaka and @sheeraf.A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Shots Are Fired, And Bots Swarm To Social Divides.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARTIN SELSOE SORENSENFEB. 16, 2018
He finally got his wish — just not the one he coveted the most.In life, Prince Henrik of Denmark railed against what he saw as the ultimate injustice: As the husband of the reigning monarch, Queen Margrethe II, he was not granted the title of king. He was known for years as her prince consort, then just prince.Unhappy with the title, which he considered a mark of gender inequality, the Danish royal announced last summer that he did not want to be buried beside his wife. And so it will be.The prince died on Tuesday at 83. His burial after a small funeral service next week will be a significant break with Danish royal tradition.Rather, he will be cremated. Half his ashes will be spread over Danish waters and the other half buried in the private gardens of Fredensborg Castle, north of Copenhagen.AdvertisementIts a completely new type of royal burial, said Karin Kryger, an art historian. Its unprecedented.AdvertisementThe sharing of the ashes could be likened to a medieval tradition of burying the corpse in one place and the heart in another, she added.Henriks choice reflects a public grudge he had held for more than 30 years, as he fought an often public battle with his wife, now 77, over his title. They were married in 1967, and he wanted to be king consort, but she wouldnt let him, historians say. He asked to be a majesty, but again was denied.As he grew older, he frequently shared his grievances with the public. The issue grew into a scandal that saw Danes mostly side with their queen, and perked up ears around the globe.She was stubborn, said Ulla Terkelsen, a senior correspondent for Denmarks TV 2. The title he wanted didnt exist; there was no precedent. She could have created a title, but she didnt want to.The last time Denmark was ruled by a queen was from 1387 to 1412: Margrethe I. She was married to the king of Norway, so that union offered no historical precedent for a possible solution to Henriks problem. Margrethe I was the first royal to be buried in Roskilde Cathedral, in eastern Denmark.After her reign, 39 monarchs followed. Prince Henrik is the first royal to choose a different burial site, and he will also not get a public monument.For years the princes complaints fell on deaf ears and added to a public image of Henrik as arrogant and detached.A native of France, he had a penchant for highbrow poetry and goose liver pate, which didnt help with the publics perception, unfairly or not. He spoke six languages, was a skillful pianist and a military pilot who fought for France during the war in Algeria. As his waistline increased, a tabloid nicknamed him King paunch and published unflattering photos.AdvertisementBut in a post on Facebook, the Danish minister of culture, Mette Bock, denounced critics for hypocrisy and said obituaries would be written about this fantastic human being who was exciting, different, sparkling and entirely his own.When Henrik made his surprising announcement that he didnt want to be buried beside his wife, as was the custom, their elaborate plans for a shared final resting place went out the window.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Those initial plans involved commissioning a glass sarcophagus for two, held by elephants made of silver.After his decision on the burial, and another public spat in which he claimed his wife had made a fool out of him, the royal house announced that Henrik had dementia. He fell ill during a private trip to Egypt and was treated in Denmark for a benign tumor in the lung.The couples son Crown Prince Frederik rushed back from the Winter Olympics in South Korea last week to visit his ailing father at a Copenhagen hospital. The cause of death has not been announced.Henriks coffin, draped in a Danish flag bearing the royal coat of arms, was taken on a stately procession through the streets of northern Copenhagen on Thursday. Thousands of people lined the route as the hearse was followed by the queen, their two sons, Frederik and Prince Joachim, and other family members to Amalienborg Palace. Thousands paid tribute on social media and left flowers at the royal castles.His coffin will be on public display for three days beginning on Saturday in Christiansborg Palace Chapel, only yards away from the Church of Holmen, where he married the queen 50 years ago.His final resting place in the private garden of Fredensborg Castle will not be open to the public.But Danes should not take it as a slight against their homeland, said Ms. Kryger, the art historian, who pointed out that in the end, he had chosen Denmark over his native France.AdvertisementHe chose to have his ashes spread in Danish waters and a funeral service in Denmark, she said. I think it shows his love for Denmark.The love may be more mutual than years of public mockery of Henrik suggests. With his death, the tide may have turned and changed the public view of the prince.Earlier, public opinion sided with the queen, but today, people see it as charming when he spoke his mind, said Ms. Terkelsen, the senior correspondent. He didnt keep a stiff upper lip, but said what he felt.While he never became king, he may have won the kingdom in the end.He was a modern royal, she said. People came to appreciate that.A version of this article appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Danish Prince Takes Protest to Grave by Rejecting One.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NEIL MacFARQUHARFEB. 16, 2018
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia — Long before he was indicted by the United States in a case involving the troll factory that spearheaded Russian efforts to meddle in the 2016 United States elections, Yevgeny V. Prigozhin emerged from prison just as the Soviet Union was collapsing and opened a hot-dog stand.Soon, he has said, the rubles were piling up faster than his mother could count them in the kitchen of their modest apartment, and he was set on his improbable career. He earned the slightly mocking nickname of Putins cook.Despite his humble, troubled youth, Mr. Prigozhin became one of Russias richest men, joining a charmed circle whose members often share one particular attribute: their proximity to President Vladimir V. Putin. The small club of loyalists who gain Mr. Putins trust often feast, as Mr. Prigozhin has, on enormous state contracts. In return, they are expected to provide other, darker services to the Kremlin as needed.On Friday, Mr. Prigozhin was one of 13 Russians indicted by a federal grand jury for interfering in the American election.AdvertisementAccording to the indictment, Mr. Prigozhin, 56, controlled the entity that financed the troll factory, known as the Internet Research Agency, which waged information warfare against the United States by creating fictitious social-media personas, spreading falsehoods and promoting messages supportive of Donald J. Trump and critical of Hillary Clinton. He has denied involvement.AdvertisementThe Americans are very impressionable people; they see what they want to see, the Russian state news agency Ria Novosti quoted Mr. Prigozhin as saying on Friday. I have a lot of respect for them. I am not upset at all that I ended up on this list. If they want to see the devil, let them see him.Mr. Prigozhins critics — including opposition politicians, journalists and activists, the United States Treasury and now the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III — say he has emerged as Mr. Putins go-to oligarch for that and a variety of sensitive and often-unsavory missions, like recruiting contract soldiers to fight in Ukraine and Syria.He is not afraid of dirty tasks, said Lyubov Sobol of the Anti-Corruption Foundation, an organization established by the prominent opposition leader Aleksei A. Navalny to investigate abuse of state contracts and other illicit schemes.He can fulfill any task for Putin, ranging from fighting the opposition to sending mercenaries to Syria, she said. He serves certain interests in certain spheres, and Putin trusts him.The United States imposed sanctions against Mr. Prigozhin in December 2016, followed by his two main, publicly acknowledged companies, Concord Management and Consulting, and Concord Catering. In doing so, the Treasury Department said he provided extensive support to senior Russian Federation officials, including constructing a military base near Ukraine that was used to deploy Russian troops.The most notorious venture linked to Mr. Prigozhin, however, is the troll farm that is accused of attacking opposition figures in Russia and seeking to magnify and aggravate social and political divisions in the West. Despite his frequent denials of any involvement, his critics say he and others like him provide a way for the Kremlin to engage in such activities while maintaining a discreet distance.The indictment on Friday says, among other charges, that Mr. Prigozhin frequently met in 2015 and 2016 with Mikhail I. Bystrov, the top official in the troll factory, which ran a disinformation campaign called Project Lakhta that by September 2016 had a monthly budget of $1.2 million.AdvertisementBoris L. Vishnevsky, an opposition member of the city council in St. Petersburg, who has called for an official investigation into threats by Mr. Prigozhin against journalists, said the Kremlin endorsed projects like the troll farm without directly organizing them.This is done by somebody who receives large-scale government contracts, he said. The fact that he gets these contracts is a hidden way to pay for his services.When the troll factory was formed in 2013, its basic task was to flood social media with articles and comments that painted Russia under Mr. Putin as stable and comfortable compared to the chaotic, morally corrupt West. The trolls soon branched into overseas operations focused on Russian adversaries like Ukraine and the United States.Facebook, Twitter and Google have all identified the Internet Research Agency as a prime source of provocative posts on divisive American issues, including race, religion, gun laws and gay rights, particularly during the 2016 presidential election. Facebook found, for example, that the agency had posted 80,000 pieces of content that reached more than 126 million Americans.Last month, Twitter announced it had started emailing more than 677,000 people in the United States who interacted with accounts from the agency during the election.Mr. Prigozhin said he was too busy to be interviewed for this article; in fact, he has given just two extended interviews in the past decade. He issued a denial of the accusations of meddling in the 2016 election, however, after a recent investigation published by the Russian newsmagazine RBC.Neither Concord Company nor other structures owned by the businessman are in any way connected with the activities directed toward meddling in the U.S. election, RBC quoted one of Mr. Prigozhins representatives as saying.Dmitri S. Peskov, Mr. Putins spokesman, also denied any Kremlin connection to the Internet Research Agency.How do bots and trolls work to infiltrate social media platforms and influence U.S. elections? We take a closer look at these insidious online pests to explain how they work.Despite Mr. Prigozhins veil of secrecy, limited details about his personal life have emerged, mostly through the Instagram accounts of his two grown children.AdvertisementOne picture featured his son, Pavel, walking naked on the deck of the 115-foot family yacht. Other pictures showed a private jet and a vintage powder blue Lincoln Continental, said to be Mr. Prigozhins favorite car.His daughter Polina posted a picture of the sweeping view from his wooded compound in Gelendzhik, the resort town on the Black Sea. The compound, including a pier for the yacht, was built in an ostensibly protected forest much beloved by Mr. Putin and his cronies, according to the Anti-Corruption Foundation.The day after researchers from the foundation leafed through the Instagram accounts and took multiple screen shots, the accounts went private. The foundation launched a drone over the sprawling family compound outside St. Petersburg to photograph what it said were father-daughter mansions and various amenities, including a full basketball court and a helicopter pad.Delovoy Peterburg, an independent daily newspaper published in St. Petersburg, listed him last year as ranking 83rd among the citys 304 ruble billionaires, with 11 billion rubles, or almost $200 million. The newspaper included only property in the public record, said Irina Pankratova, an investigative reporter. If all property linked to him had been counted, she said, he would rank in the Top 5.Born in 1961 in what was then Leningrad, now St. Petersburg, Mr. Prigozhin showed adolescent promise as a champion cross-country skier that was cut short in 1981 by a prison sentence for robbery and other crimes, according to an extensive biography compiled by Meduza, an online investigative publication.When he got out after nine years, he started the hot-dog business, which led to his running a chain of convenience stores and eventually to starting several deluxe if kitschy restaurants in St. Petersburg. His patrons wanted to see something new in their lives and were tired of just eating cutlets with vodka, Mr. Prigozhin told a magazine called Elite Society.An old rust bucket that he and his soon-to-be-jettisoned partners converted to the floating New Island Restaurant became St. Petersburgs most fashionable dining spot.AdvertisementEventually, Mr. Putin himself showed up, towing world leaders. He hosted President Jacques Chirac of France and his wife in 2001 and President George W. Bush in 2002. President Putin celebrated his own birthday there in 2003.During these glittering occasions, Mr. Prigozhin made sure to hover nearby, sometimes even clearing empty plates.Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news stories of the week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He was not a chef himself, despite the Putins cook moniker. But Mr. Putin apparently admired his style. The president saw how I built my business starting from a kiosk, Mr. Prigozhin told Gorod 812, a St. Petersburg magazine. He saw how I was not above serving a plate.The first significant state contracts began flowing in after Mr. Prigozhin founded Concord Catering. Starting with the St. Petersburg schools, he moved on to feeding the far more numerous Moscow schools and, finally, most of the Russian military. His trademark became lavish state banquets, including inauguration feasts for both recent presidents, Dmitri A. Medvedev and Mr. Putin.In just the past five years, Mr. Prigozhin has received government contracts worth $3.1 billion, the Anti-Corruption Foundation reported.Lately, he has branched out into areas like recruiting contract soldiers to fight overseas and establishing a popular online news service that pushes a nationalist viewpoint, making him even more indispensable to Mr. Putin.A leading news website in St. Petersburg, Fontanka, which has reported extensively on Mr. Prigozhins military contracts, recently discovered another potential source of revenue, perhaps the biggest yet. In exchange for providing soldiers to protect Syrias oil fields, companies linked to Mr. Prigozhin were awarded a percentage of the oil revenue, the website reported.Some Russian contract soldiers in Syria were back in the news this month after a Feb. 7 clash between Kurdish forces, backed by the United States, and Syrian government forces aided by Russian mercenaries. Reports about exactly what happened remain murky, but anywhere from five to 200 Russian soldiers have been reported killed. The Russian Foreign Ministry on Thursday confirmed five deaths, but has refused to confirm that it has contract soldiers fighting in Syria, fueling anger among the families of those fighting about the lack of information.AdvertisementIt has always been difficult to find his fingerprints directly on any of these shadowy firms, said Denis Korotkov, a reporter for Fontanka. The only clues are the companies overlapping ties, including the same managers, shared telephone numbers or IP addresses.After studying this material, Fontanka and the Anti-Corruption Foundation concluded in 2016 that significant government contracts were going to clusters of fake companies designed to circumvent federal rules on competitive bidding.State regulators also reviewed eight Defense Ministry contracts won by businesses linked to Mr. Prigozhin and issued a stern rebuke in May 2017.Russian law mandates that any contract go to the lowest bidder, but the winning tenders were only a fraction lower than the rest. Otherwise the bids were virtually identical, the Anti-Monopoly Service said, calling the 2015 bids fixed.The government announced that it would not press charges. Nobody anticipates Mr. Prigozhin appearing in a Russian court any time soon.We dont expect him to be punished given that he is among the presidents closest friends, said Maksim L. Reznik, another St. Petersburg legislator demanding that he be investigated.Ivan Nechepurenko contributed reporting from St. Petersburg, Russia, and Oleg Matsnev from Moscow.A version of this article appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Oligarch Tied to Troll Factory Earned Nickname Putins Cook.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By LOVIA GYARKYEFEB. 15, 2018
WHEN THEY CALL YOU A TERRORIST A Black Lives Matter Memoir By Patrisse Khan-Cullors and asha bandele 257 pp. St. Martins Press. $24.99.Pick a social justice campaign from the last few years — Black Lives Matter, #MeToo or Fight for $15 — and notice that behind it stand black women, whose physical and emotional labor helped lay roots and build movements now largely considered socially acceptable or woke. Not too long ago these individuals could expect only obscurity and misattribution, but the United States is having a moment that includes the rehabilitation of black womens public image. Nevertheless, the conditions of this uplift are murky, and at times depend on generalizations — like mules of the world and Black Girl Magic — that have eerie historical parallels and leave little room for growth.When They Call You a Terrorist, by Patrisse Khan-Cullors, a co-founder of Black Lives Matter, written with asha bandele, a former features editor at Essence, abandons such abstractions for details — at times one wishes there were even more — to help readers understand what it means to be a black woman in the United States today.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Khan-Cullorss memoir begins in Van Nuys, Calif., in a two-story, tan-colored building where the paint is peeling and where there is a gate that does not close properly and an intercom system that never works. Her language is poetic even if her childhood wasnt. Joy comes in the form of family. Her mother is a survivor focused on the well-being of her children; her birth father, Gabriel, whose stints in prison leave him often unable to participate in her life, encourages everyone to choose love; and her older brother Monte, who will later be imprisoned and told he has schizoaffective disorder, has a ginormous heart. But love cannot save her family from external forces, and Khan-Cullors does her best to contextualize their circumstances. In 1986 when I am 3 years old, Ronald Reagan re-energizes the drug war that was started in 1971 by Richard Nixon by further militarizing the police in our communities, she writes. At 9, she watches officers harass her 11- and 13-year-old brothers. At 12, she is arrested for smoking weed even though students at her suburban school light up in the bathroom and no one gets in trouble.Part 2 introduces Khan-Cullors the organizer and activist. Titled Black Lives Matter, these chapters outline her partnership with Alicia Garza and Opal Tometi, the other founders of the network. After the acquittal of George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer who fatally shot Trayvon Martin in 2012, Khan-Cullors logged onto Facebook and responded to a post Garza had written. Her message, #BlackLivesMatter, catalyzed the now international movement against police violence and racism. But while the title of this section (and the subtitle of the book) promises an insider account, the details of their partnership are sparse, mostly concentrated at the end of one chapter. While Khan-Cullors outlines the reasons for some of Black Lives Matters tactics, particularly its emphasis on inclusivity and a decentralized organization, readers wont find Situation Room-style play-by-plays here.In When and Where I Enter, an influential history of black female activists in the United States, Paula Giddings, a professor of Africana studies at Smith College, wonders about those women — from Anna Julia Cooper to Ida B. Wells and Mary Church Terrell — who gave up much of their lives to fighting for justice and liberation. Who are we when no one yearns for us, or when we are in full possession of our sexuality? Who are we when we are not someones mother, or daughter, or sister, or aunt, or church elder, or first black woman to be this or that? she writes. When They Call You a Terrorist is the beginning of an answer to these questions. While its importance will not be in doubt, for the significance of Black Lives Matter cannot be overstated, the books necessity comes from its other subject. I am Patrisse Marie Khan-Cullors Brignac, its author writes in her introduction. And indeed, between the moments spent serving everyone else, the rest of the book — chronicling her evolving sexual identity, her radical redefinition of love, her relationships and eventually the birth of her child — uncovers just who she is.Lovia Gyarkye is on staff at the Book Review.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.A version of this review appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page BR13 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Becoming Patrisse.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.By SOPAN DEBFEB. 16, 2018
The portraits of Barack and Michelle Obama, unveiled this week at the National Portrait Gallery, drew strong, passionate responses from Times readers. Some said the portraits, by Kehinde Wiley and Amy Sherald, didnt represent the couples spirit. Others said that the unconventional approach was entirely appropriate given the Obamas place in history.Here are some of the responses collected from our comment section and Facebook. They have been edited for length and clarity.To me, they are period icons, and it remains to be seen if they are documents of a fleeting moment or a new century. The millefleur tapestry approach by Kehinde Wiley reflects the all encompassing symbolism of a new American tapestry. The Sherald portrait is elegant, combining the portrait of a sitter and the beautiful dress itself as a frame. Personally I think these are beautiful portraits. Congratulations to both artists.  SAVANNAHLoved them. As a Chicana born, raised and educated in California, and having visited most of the great museums throughout Europe, I find these extraordinary. A refreshing non-European prism is deeply familiar, inviting, refreshing and appreciated. ROSA MONTES GOLDBERGAdvertisementThe images are powerful: Michelle, a dark and lovely [woman] comes alive. She is powerful and glamorous, soft and striking. Passionate and peaceful. A woman of grace. Intelligent and observing. Barack, making no apologies. King had the dream. Barack is living the dream. TAI YVONNEAdvertisementThis drastically new portraiture complements the kind of president that Obama was. Being the first black president in history, he represents a positive change. Some may even see it as a turning point in American history. And, this portrait captures this wonderfully. But, it does more than that by showing Obama as being troubled by something. Given a presidents job, there could be many things that would be troubling him. And this allows me to empathize with him in a way that its difficult to do with most other portraits. With the sharp contrast of light and dark colors and the expressive rendition of the president, this portrait is one of a kind.  CARSTENI get the symbolism of the flowers in Baracks portrait, but the busy prints take attention from the subject. Its the opposite of what a portrait is supposed to do. BELLE CHRISTIANI think the paintings are interesting and I like them as thoughtful pieces in and of themselves. But I think that context is important to consider. Here is the first black president, an excellent human being and dignified leader and hes sitting in the bushes. I definitely want something that shows his poise, integrity and valor. I think something more stately would be more ennobling. JOSE MORENOFor whatever reason, I was taken aback when I first saw President Obamas portrait with the floral background. The more I look at it, the more I love it. However, I have to agree with those who say that Michelles doesnt closely resemble her, but does it have to do so. The overall sense of the picture is of peace, elegance and intellect. JENNIE VINSON HLAVACEKPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Art definition: the expression or application of human creative skill and imagination, typically in a visual form such as painting or sculpture, producing works to be appreciated primarily for their beauty or emotional power. I love the background of President Obamas painting because for me it depicts his love of the earth and his love of all living things. JUDITH SALYER The portrait of Michelle appears to be all about the dress. Mrs. Obama, with her caring, strength and true inner beauty, is not there. The picture doesnt succeed at all with me. DEB HARTOGENSIS GODDENMrs. Obama brought such a focused, high-energy presence to the White House and to her role. This portrait seems to portray some kind of dreamy cartoony character. Not only doesnt it resemble her physically, it doesnt seem to capture her spirit. Plus, especially since she has such beautiful skin, I hate that her skin tone is literally gray. MARIANNEMr. Obamas is the more successful for me. His warmth comes through the stern expression. Mrs. Obamas is magnificent for the dress and elegant, but entirely misses the mark facially for me. Her immense beauty is hidden in a cold palette and grim countenance. Rarely was she seen unsmiling — but this is how future generations will see her. PATRICK MERCIERAdvertisementAlthough I love the painting of Michelle, I dont think it captures her spirit. Its a fashion statement, and I dont think thats what she was all about. I do not like the painting of Barack. Again, its certainly well done, but just not honoring his image and his legacy. JUDITH SPINDEL BRIGGSI love them. They are bold and showcase innovative and brilliant American artists. One legacy of the Obamas is that they push us to think more, see more and learn more. These portraits do that. SALLY DRAKEI think both portraits are fantastic. I love that they both chose black artists for this. I definitely would have felt a way if they hadnt. ANGELA KIRKLANDWasnt that the purpose, as it usually is with all art? Just the fact that we keep discussing the paintings in so many different threads, on so many different levels, proves their value. Those paintings try to relay more than just a beautiful mirror image of the Obamas. They carry a symbolism of how the artists perceived their personalities and statue. As such, I like them. BRITTA GLAPPA VON KANNENA version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page C6 of the New York edition with the headline: For a Former First Couple, All the Worlds an Art Critic.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ANDREW E. KRAMERJAN. 31, 2018
VEDUCHI, Russia — Sporting a camouflage ski suit, Ramzan A. Kadyrov, the leader of Chechnya, pulled a gigantic ceremonial lever to start this once war-wrecked regions first ski lift. God is great! some spectators yelled as the machine whirred to life.High in the Caucasus Mountains, a ski resort is rising on slopes that once teemed with Islamist militants. The Veduchi resort, which takes its name from the local village, is a multimillion-dollar development featuring a hotel and spa center, chalets and a helicopter pad. It is the centerpiece of an improbable effort for Russia to ski and snowboard its way out of a long-simmering insurgency.The potential for winter sports as a method of diplomacy came into focus recently in South Korea, which is preparing to welcome North Korean athletes to  the Winter Olympics this month. But Russia has a longer-term strategy: putting winter sports to use as a tool for economic development and pacification in a decades-old conflict in the Caucasus.A state-owned company, North Caucasus Resorts, is building a string of ski resorts in the restive, predominantly Muslim areas of the Caucasus. Three have opened so far, the most recent here in the Argun Gorge of Chechnya.AdvertisementThe intention is to create jobs, though even the developer conceded that it might be difficult to convince winter sports enthusiasts of the merits of Chechnya, where Russia brutally repressed an Islamist insurgency and where thousands of militants may be returning from Syria after fighting for the Islamic State.AdvertisementI am confident it will become popular not only with the Russian population but also with foreign countries, Mr. Kadyrov said at the opening this week.Ruslan Timukayev, a spokesman for the regional government, said the region had seen an uptick in tourism as Chechnya became a brand. About 100,000 tourists came to Chechnya last year, he said, adding with a shrug, Some people like extremes.About $35 million has been invested so far in the ski resort, which is expected to cost $500 million when completed. The plans call for 19 ski lifts and 28 miles of trails fanning out over a serene alpine valley though the resort opened with only one modest, half-mile lift, serving just one trail.After pulling the lever to start the lift, Mr. Kadyrov, who does not ski, hopped on for a ride. The lift stalled briefly, leaving him dangling for a few moments before jerking back into motion.Professional skiers flown in from St. Petersburg zigzagged down the slope for the television cameras, and local children were offered free lessons.The war in Chechnya has mostly petered out; the last insurgent attack in near Veduchi took place in 2009, officials say, and the last significant terrorist attack in Chechnya was in 2014. But rights groups have documented a staggering cost of peace and of propping up the rule of Mr. Kadyrov, a former rebel whose powerful family allied with President Vladimir V. Putin in 1999.They have cataloged an array of continuing abuses, including arbitrary arrests, house burnings as punishment, and the detention and torture last spring of about 100 gay men.How is a ski resort going to solve all that? Tanya Lokshina, the Russia director of Human Rights Watch, said in a telephone interview. How is it going to solve the problem of a state within a state, where lawlessness and abuses are the norm?AdvertisementMore recently, rights groups have expressed alarm at what they see as a cruel and capricious response from Mr. Kadyrov to the cancellation last month of his Facebook and Instagram accounts.Facebook, which also owns Instagram, said it had deactivated the accounts after Mr. Kadyrov was added to a United States sanctions list over rights abuses.The block came as a blow to Mr. Kadyrov, who had amassed millions of followers by posting pictures of himself cuddling a cat and lifting weights, along with the dead bodies of his enemies. He rejoiced in it, really, and he was clearly livid about losing it, Ms. Lokshina said.On Jan. 10, Oyub Titiev, the Chechnya director of the rights group Memorial, was arrested, ostensibly over possessing marijuana. But Mr. Kadyrov went on television a few days later to criticize rights activists as enemies of the people, adding that he would break the spines of our enemies.While talk like that might scare foreign tour operators and other visitors from traveling to Veduchi, it seems to have had little effect on the main market: Russians.While conceding that many impressions of Chechnya start with a negative background, Khasan Timizhev, the director of North Caucasus Resorts, said market research had shown that Russian skiers were more concerned about the condition and safety of the slopes rather than lawlessness or terrorist attacks.Whatever doubts outsiders might harbor about Chechnya, the few who turned out from nearby villages were more enthusiastic, saying the only other living to be made was in sheep herding.AdvertisementWe think the Chinese will come, said Albert Rabuyev, principal of the Itum-Kale village middle school, gazing at the chairs of the new lift gliding up and down the mountain.Mr. Rabuyev said he would even welcome gay men, because as visitors they would rent rooms, rent skis and then leave.Isa Abkarom, a vendor at a stand selling cups and other collectibles, said the long-promised resort came as good news for Chechnya. Everybody was just waiting for normal life to return, he said. We are happy to see the last of the war.The vision of ski resorts as pacification tools sprang from preparations for the 2014 Winter Olympics in the Black Sea resort of Sochi. The North Caucasus insurgency had raged over mountain territory, and so winter sports were a logical postwar development goal, officials said. Two additional resorts are planned by 2025, one in Ingushetia and the other in Dagestan.The two other resorts opened last season in neighboring regions reported 383,000 skiers combined. Crisp, sunny mountain weather draws visitors to the resorts, said Ekaterina Zhigalo, a spokeswoman for North Caucasus Resorts. Its a very good climate for health.A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Where Islamists Reigned, a Ski Resort Rises.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Bret StephensStudents at the University of Michigan have staged a rare protest against the brutal dictatorship of Venezuelas Nicolás Maduro. According to The Michigan Daily, more than 100 people joined a rally less than 24 hours after two students created an SOS Venezuela Facebook event.I think the event created a lot of awareness, not just for the University students, but in general, The Daily quoted a sophomore as saying. I think these voices that were heard today are going to keep carrying on; people are going to keep talking about this for a while.Go Blue, for raising awareness of the worst humanitarian disaster to befall the Western Hemisphere in decades. Just one problem: The protest took place four years ago.Scour the Web and youll find a handful of reports of anti-Maduro protests or teach-ins at universities in recent years, usually organized by Venezuelans living in the U.S. And most politically informed people are more-or-less aware of Venezuelas political and economic disorders. No doubt they dont like what they see, and no doubt they wish it were otherwise.They just dont seem to care that much.Every generation of campus activists embraces a worthy foreign-policy cause: Ending apartheid in South Africa; stopping ethnic cleansing in the Balkans; rescuing Darfur from starvation and genocide. And then theres the perennial — and perennially unworthy — cause of freeing Palestine, for which there never is a shortage of credulous campus zealots.Then there are the humanitarian causes young activists generally dont embrace, at least not in a big way. Cubas political prisoners. Islamist violence against Christians in the Middle East. The vast and terrifying concentration camp that is North Korea. Where are the campus protests over any of that?The case of Venezuela ought to be an especially worthy one for college students. It is urgent. It is close by. Its victims are fighting for democracy, for human rights, for the ability to feed their children.Nor is the outrage in any way obscure. The Timess Nicholas Casey has for years provided an unforgettable chronicle of human tragedy in the form of Venezuelan parents burying their starving children, of hospital patients dying for lack of basics such as antibiotics or oxygen tanks, of yet another generation of boat people risking their lives on the high seas to flee their socialist paradise. Nearly three million Venezuelans — one-tenth of the total population — have now fled the country, according to The Wall Street Journal, creating a refugee crisis comparable to that of the Rohingya in Myanmar.So why the relative silence? Part of the reason is that campus activism is a left-wing phenomenon, making it awkward to target left-wing villains.A larger reason is that, until a few years ago, the Venezuelan regime was a cause of the left, cheered by people like Naomi Klein, Sean Penn and Danny Glover. Left-wing publications such as Glenn Greenwalds The Intercept have gone out of their way to make excuses for the regime and treat its critics as Washington stooges. Jeremy Corbyn, who could yet be Britains next prime minister, memorialized the late dictator Hugo Chávez in 2013 for his massive contributions to Venezuela & a very wide world.Even today, the criticism is amazingly muted. If Klein has seriously come to terms with Maduros tyranny or Venezuelas catastrophe, she has not done it in The Nation, The Guardian, or anywhere indexed by LexisNexis or Factiva. Corbyns response to Maduros repression has been to voice his condemnation of the violence thats been done by any side, by all sides — a piece of obfuscatory equivalence worthy of Donald Trumps Charlottesville remark. Penn and Glover seem to have moved on to other causes, like bashing Trump. Such courage.That leaves the cause of Venezuelas deliverance from evil in the hands of … Mike Pence. The vice president may not be the ideal spokesman for the rights of a Latin American country, at least in the eyes of the typical undergraduate political activist. And some of the Trump administrations policy prescriptions, such as broad sanctions on the Venezuelan economy, may do more to tighten Maduros grip than to crush it. (More effective are U.S. sanctions on Venezuelan government officials, which target the guilty and spare the innocent.)Still, it says something about the moral dereliction of too many liberals that Pence has been a clarion voice of attention and outrage at the unfolding catastrophe, while they mostly remain silent. When youve ceded the moral high ground to the Trump administration, youve ceded a piece of your soul.It would be nice to suppose that Venezuelas agonies will soon be at an end, on the theory that it cant go on like this much longer. People said that about Syria several years ago, too. How many more Venezuelans have to starve or drown before Western liberals do something more than merely shake their heads?I invite you to follow me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementBy DAVID M. HALBFINGER and ISABEL KERSHNERFEB. 13, 2018
JERUSALEM — The Israeli police recommended on Tuesday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust, casting a pall over the future of a tenacious leader who has become almost synonymous with his country. The announcement instantly raised doubts about his ability to stay in office.Concluding a yearlong graft investigation, the police recommended that Mr. Netanyahu face prosecution in two corruption cases: a gifts-for-favors affair known as Case 1000, and a second scandal, called Case 2000, in which Mr. Netanyahu is suspected of back-room dealings with Arnon Mozes, publisher of the popular newspaper Yediot Aharonot, to ensure more favorable coverage.All told, the police accused Mr. Netanyahu of accepting nearly $300,000 in gifts over 10 years.Mr. Netanyahu, addressing the nation live on television shortly before the police released their findings around 9 p.m., made clear that he would not step down. I feel a deep obligation to continue to lead Israel in a way that will ensure our future, he said, before embarking on a 12-minute defense of his conduct.You know I do everything with only one thing in mind — the good of the country, he said. Not for cigars from a friend, not for media coverage, not for anything. Only for the good of the state. Nothing has made me deviate, or will make me deviate, from this sacred mission.AdvertisementThe police recommendations must now be examined by state prosecutors and the attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, a former military prosecutor and onetime Netanyahu aide.AdvertisementThe final decision about whether to file formal charges lies with Mr. Mandelblit and is subject to a hearing beforehand with Mr. Netanyahus lawyers. Reaching that threshold alone could easily take months.According to the police, expensive cigars, jewelry and pink champagne flowed into the prime ministers official Jerusalem residence in quantities sufficient to stock a small cocktail lounge. The generous patrons included Arnon Milchan, the Israeli movie producer, and James Packer, an Australian billionaire.But it is the favors Mr. Netanyahu may have given his wealthy friends in return that could herald his downfall. A formal bribery charge would be by far the most serious outcome, and the most ominous for his political survival.Mr. Netanyahu, who has emerged as one of President Trumps most ardent allies, is serving his third consecutive term since his election in 2009, and his fourth overall since the 1990s. If he were to remain in the post through July 2019, it would set a record for total time in office, surpassing that of the states founder, David Ben-Gurion.Mr. Netanyahu has vehemently denied any wrongdoing and has vowed to fight on, saying that no police recommendation would prompt his resignation.His longevity attests to his political agility and to his perfection of a campaigning and governing style in which he casts his political foes and critics as enemies of the broader body politic. Though he has formed previous governing coalitions with those to his left, his current government is often described as the most right-wing and religious in Israels history. And he has presided over an increasingly bitter relationship with the Palestinians in the territories Israel has occupied for more than a half-century, whose hopes of soon gaining a state of their own have dwindled as Israeli settlements expand.But while Mr. Netanyahu has prepared the public for this moment for months, and made strenuous efforts to discredit those investigating him, he has not prepared Israel or his government for the possibility that he may be unable to continue to lead. He has designated no successor, and no single member of his own coalition has emerged as ready to step into his shoes. Meanwhile, a centrist opposition, led by Yair Lapid of the Yesh Atid party, has been gaining strength.In a twist straight out of a political thriller, a key witness against Mr. Netanyahu, according to Israeli news reports Tuesday night, turned out to be Mr. Lapid himself, who had been Mr. Netanyahus finance minister in a previous coalition.AdvertisementAccording to a police statement about their recommendations, Mr. Netanyahu promoted the extension of a 10-year tax exemption to expatriate Israelis returning to the country, a benefit that has great economic value for Milchan, who has long worked in Hollywood. But the Finance Ministry blocked this legislation, saying it was against the national interest and fiscally unsound.The Israeli law enforcement authorities have handled the cases with great caution, wary of the possibility of bringing down a prime minister who might then be proved not guilty in court, not least with Israel facing increasing security threats on its northern and southern frontiers.But Israels constant state of alert has led some critics to argue all the more that a prime minister so focused on fighting his own legal battles cannot be entrusted with fateful decisions of peace and war.Opposition politicians pounced Tuesday night, demanding that Mr. Netanyahu step down, be ousted by his coalition or at least declare himself incapacitated, as former Prime Minister Ehud Barak urged on Twitter, calling the police findings hair-raising.Most of you are honest people, Stav Shaffir, of the left-leaning Zionist Union party, wrote on Twitter, addressing Mr. Netanyahus coalition. If you have a drop of concern for the future, fulfill your obligation. Free Israel from this madness.But some coalition members denounced both the investigation and Mr. Lapids role in it. In a democracy, a regime is changed in an election and not through the army or police, the coalitions chairman, Dudi Amsalem, told Walla News.And Finance Minister Moshe Kahlon, whose center-right Kulanu party holds 10 seats in Parliament, giving it the power to sink Mr. Netanyahus government, signaled just before midnight that he was not prepared to leave the coalition, saying on Facebook that he would wait for the attorney generals decision on whether to indict Mr. Netanyahu.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Projecting aplomb, Mr. Netanyahu announced that he would attend a conference of local authorities in Tel Aviv on Wednesday morning.AdvertisementMr. Netanyahu long ago earned the nickname the Magician for his uncanny knack for political endurance, and even his most ardent opponents have been hesitant to write him off.At what point he might be legally required to step down, short of a final conviction, is likely to be a matter of increasingly heated debate, though public opinion and political pressure could in the end play a decisive role.Israels Supreme Court has ruled in the past that government ministers or deputy ministers, once indicted, may not remain in their posts. Whether that principle should also apply to the elected prime minister is an open question.Mr. Netanyahu would be something of a test case as Israels first sitting prime minister to be formally charged.His predecessor, Ehud Olmert, announced his resignation in September 2008, a week after the police recommended that he be charged with bribery, breach of trust, money laundering and fraudulent receipt of goods. That case involved an American businessman and a travel-expense scandal from Mr. Olmerts days as mayor of Jerusalem and minister of industry and trade.Mr. Olmert was eventually convicted in various cases and served 19 months of a 27-month prison sentence. He was released last year.Pre-empting the police recommendations, Mr. Netanyahu told the public to expect them and did his best to minimize their importance.Any fair-minded person will ask themselves how people who say such delusional things about the prime minister can investigate him objectively and make recommendations in his case without bias, he wrote on a Facebook post last week, accusing the police commissioner, Roni Alsheich, of having an agenda.AdvertisementIn December, Mr. Netanyahu told a gathering of his right-wing Likud Party supporters: The vast majority of police recommendations end in nothing. Over 60 percent of the police recommendations are thrown in the trash. Over 60 percent of the police recommendations dont get to an indictment.Experts have disputed those figures, however, and the prime ministers opponents have begun quoting from an interview he gave in 2008, at the height of Mr. Olmerts legal troubles, to turn the tables on Mr. Netanyahu.Describing Mr. Olmert as up to his neck in investigations, Mr. Netanyahu said of his political rival at the time: He does not have a public or moral mandate to determine such fateful matters for the state of Israel when there is the fear, and I have to say it is real and not without basis, that he will make decisions based on his personal interest in political survival and not based on the national interest.In some ways, though, Mr. Netanyahu has been here before.During his first term in office, in the late 1990s, the police recommended that he be charged with fraud and breach of trust in a complicated case in which Mr. Netanyahu was suspected of acting to appoint an attorney general who would be sympathetic to a minister under investigation for corruption, in return for that ministers political support. Ultimately, the attorney general closed that case, citing a lack of evidence.Again, in March 2000, once Mr. Netanyahu was out of office, the police recommended that he be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust in a case involving his holding on to $100,000 in gifts that were state property and having the state pay for private work on his home. Months later, the attorney general also ordered that case closed.This time around, the police recruited a states witness, Ari Harow, Mr. Netanyahus former chief of staff and once one of his closest confidants.The police have also been making headway in other criminal investigations in which Mr. Netanyahu has not been named as a subject, but that involve associates from his most inner circle. His wife already faces criminal charges of sneaking $100,000 in catered meals into the prime ministers residence.But a potentially far more explosive scandal, called Case 3000, involves a $2 billion deal for the purchase of submarines and missile ships from a German supplier. Critics have described that episode as perhaps the biggest corruption case in Israeli history, touching on deep conflicts of interest and national security.Among those caught up in the shipping investigation are David Shimron, Mr. Netanyahus personal lawyer and second cousin, and Yitzhak Molcho, Mr. Netanyahus lifelong friend and close adviser, whom he has sent on his most delicate diplomatic missions since the 1990s. Mr. Molcho and Mr. Shimron are partners in a law firm as well as brothers-in-law.AdvertisementAnother possible case may be brewing over suspicions of the exchange of benefits in return for favorable media coverage between Mr. Netanyahu and a close friend who owns Bezeq, Israels telecommunications giant.Follow David M. Halbfinger and Isabel Kershner: @halbfinger and @IKershner.Irit Pazner Garshowitz and Myra Noveck contributed research.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Corruption Charges Suggested for Israeli Leader.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By STEPHANIE GOODMANFEB. 14, 2018
Critics hate The Greatest Showman; moviegoers love it. The split caught professional film journalists like myself by surprise when the musical, which opened in December to tepid business, became a box-office smash and the soundtrack topped the charts in the weeks since. But I didnt get it: What was so great about The Greatest Showman?I asked, and you responded.Nearly 1,200 readers took to nytimes.com, Facebook and Twitter to explain what they loved about the movie. Two emailed directly with passionate defenses. A colleague stopped me to share his surprise at truly enjoying it. The films star, Hugh Jackman, even tweeted about my question, setting off another round of fans who emphatically told me how they felt.
            Hey Stephanie I truly appreciate your honesty and your openness to hear why people love Showman. Over to you all ... HJ @GreatestShowman @nytimeshttps://t.co/5sV8R7g4Cm 
            She is wrong! Stephanie you're wrong! It's one of the best films of all time...Hugh is amazing..the songs are amazing! It's so entertaining...Stephanie couldn't be more wrong if she tried!        Trying to be less wrong, I decided to go see the movie again, this time keeping in mind your reasons. Strikingly, a sizable number of you have seen The Greatest Showman two, three and, in one case, 20 times. Your explanations reflected that devotion, which was effusive and heartfelt, whether speaking about the music, Hugh Jackmans performance or the experience of watching it with loved ones. A lot of you cited the current political moment but to make different points: Some of you found Showman an escape from the news, while others viewed the films messages as a response to the headlines.Heres a small taste of the answers, edited for clarity and length because you had a lot to say.At some point everyone feels like an outsider. Being adopted Ive heard over and over again that Im not Latina enough or not Jewish enough. But this is me. This movie emphasizes self love. It has a wonderful message. A tribute to humanity. I saw it three times and I cannot wait until it comes out so I can buy it. REBECCA L. ALEXANDEREvery song is singable and every song has a positive message. Add to that the element that many of the characters are outcasts and freaks of their day. This is a film for this moment in time where issues of equality are no longer discussed on the fringes but are being confronted head-on. SCOTT BERGAdvertisementThe characters in the movie were societys outcasts and were given a place where they belonged and were celebrated. Its an important message to convey, especially now. BETH JANZEN BEZOOYENAdvertisementIts the message. Dream. Live. Find your tribe. Dont be afraid to blunder. Rise up. Fall in love. Show the world who you are. How can you not understand why its so good? NESSA FERRELLSeeing this movie was the release I needed to rid my mind of the social and political garbage our country is stewing in. Ive never been a fan of musicals. However, I patiently sat through the film and it was worth every minute. As for critics, who the hell knows. Like many a movie, they were wrong on this one. RONDA HOOPERMany people today are waking up each morning wondering, What the heck is going to happen today? They are angry, sad, frustrated and feeling helpless when they watch the news. The Greatest Showman is 105 minutes of pure heart stopping, toe tapping entertainment. It allows us to escape. BARBARA ISHAMI am a legal aid attorney. A lot of my cases involve child abuse — it breaks my heart to see these children. A particularly horrible case came my way yesterday. During my commute, I put on The Greatest Showman soundtrack. And I felt better. I contemplated going to see the movie again (I have seen in 6.3 times — once I was taking my kids to another movie and kept sneaking into Greatest Showman). There is an indelible magical component of Greatest Showman that makes you feel like hope is out there, that good people are out there, and that we can have joy and happiness —even when we make mistakes. J. WATERSIm a 44-year-old male high school English teacher, and I have seen The Greatest Showman eight times with my wife. First, its about a circus — and circuses have always offered the masses a much-needed break from reality. There is also a happy ending for everyone. Yes, its hokey, but you leave the theater with a light heart and a smile on your face. CHRIS BRYANTAre you kidding me? The songs are golden. I cannot get enough of the soundtrack. And the movie was touching. The moment on the rooftop with his daughters was beautiful. I think many parents can relate to that feeling of wanting to give your kids a world of opportunities that were maybe unavailable to you in some way. HALEY KASPRZYKThe music is uplifting and joyful in a way that I havent heard in such a long time. The choreography, costuming and sets were beautiful to me. And, most important, the story of a man losing his way and coming home was something I needed in these difficult times. ASHLEY C. NICHOLSPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Everything. The songs, the lessons ... the fact that my children loved it. I hate paying for the movies and weve seen it twice. We sing This Is Me as a family when someone is feeling down. Its an amazing message and movie. STEPHANIE BASTEKAdvertisementThis weekend will be my third time seeing the film. Is the film an accurate biopic about Barnum? No. Was Barnum as great a humanitarian as Hugh Jackman is in the film? Most likely not. But were judging him by todays times instead of the times in which he lived. Instead, they gave us memorable songs to express what the characters were feeling and actors who can say much with little or no dialogue. ANGELA WEAVERThe emotions between Carlyle [Zac Efron] and Anne [Zendaya] reminded me of how I felt when I first met my husband — I didnt think you could bottle that but it turns out, through Rewrite the Stars, you can. SARAH TAYLORIm a grown woman — but this movie makes you feel like you are 17 again and that you can fly (like Zendaya). You walk out the theater on a cloud feeling victorious. It makes you believe everything could be possible: love, dreams, jobs, businesses, success. Maybe I should look into buying a trapeze. TARA DEMOSSI tried to beg off seeing The Greatest Showman, and I reluctantly went with my husband. The movie hit me hard — I was emotionally hooked by the underdog story, the music, Hugh Jackman, the sheer joy of the performances, the way it made me feel for days afterwards. I kept humming the songs (seriously, humming the songs all day), streaming the music, watching the YouTube videos of the actors practices. This was abnormal behavior for me, luckily my husband loved the movie, too. SUSAN MAYFIELDI have seen this movie 20 times. No joke. I wasnt expecting anything special when my friend begged me to join her. By the time it ended, I felt a gut punch of emotions — a shot of pure joy straight to my soul in a time that I so desperately needed. ROBERT NOREIGAThe people in the theater actually clapped at the end of this movie. It was almost like a theater experience. Love the music. KATHY SIBLEIm answering your question because I want Hugh Jackman to be able to make more movies like this one. Hugh Jackman is, to me, the most underappreciated entertainer of this generation by Hollywoods elite and critics. His talent, humanity, charisma and masculine energy light up a stage and screen, and he pours his heart and soul into his performances. THERESA MAHFOODThe movie is what its about. You watch it like youre at the circus. You dont care if its fake or low brow. You let yourself enjoy the music, characters and choreography. And you, Stephanie Goodman, are playing right into it. Youre the critic in the movie who didnt like the circus, but had to admit that the people did. KATY VAN SANTFor the record Im an editor, not a critic, but the irony of watching a fictional newspaper critic who hated Barnums work was not lost on me. In Showman he comes to feel a grudging respect for Barnum, and upon a second viewing I too came around — a little. When Jenny Lind takes the stage to sing Never Enough as Barnum falls for her, his wife watches and disapproving stares douse the sparks between Zac Efron and Zendaya, I was transported and suddenly got it. This is the romance and escapism you were talking about!Unfortunately the moment didnt last for me but Ill give the fans one more turn. On Facebook, Hillary Vandenberg wrote that shed seen the movie three times and added, I cant wait for it to be on Broadway.AdvertisementWhat do you say, Hugh?A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2018, on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: We Say Turkey. You Say Sigh.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Mini-Vows By                     
VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

FEB. 17, 2018
Angelina Elizabeth Darrisaw and Maurice Cheeks II are to be married Feb. 18 at the Sheraton Bay Point Resort in Panama City Beach, Fla. The Rev. Caroline Mack, who was ordained by the New Gate International Church, is to officiate.The bride, who is 30 and will be taking her husbands name, is the founder and chief executive of C-Suite Coach, a career coaching platform in New York that helps companies retain and engage diverse millennial talent. She graduated from Davidson College and received a master's degree in management from Wake Forest University.She is the daughter of Dr. Monique Darrisaw-Akil of Freeport, N.Y., and the stepdaughter of Shomari Akil. The brides mother is an assistant superintendent for secondary education, programs and policy in Brentwood, N.Y., for the Brentwood Union Free School District. Her stepfather is an administrator at New Rochelle High School in New Rochelle, N.Y.The groom, 29, is a broker in Jersey City for ICAP, a financial trading company. He graduated from Villanova.AdvertisementHe is the son of Rosalyn O. Simpson of Houston and Maurice Cheeks of Oklahoma City. The grooms mother retired as a mathematics teacher for the Houston Independent School District. His father is an assistant coach for the Oklahoma City Thunder in the National Basketball Association; he is a former player for the Philadelphia 76ers, San Antonio Spurs, Atlanta Hawks, New York Knicks and New Jersey Nets.AdvertisementMs. Darrisaw and Mr. Cheeks met at a party at his West Village apartment in February 2012.She was really pretty, Mr. Cheeks said, but I thought she was a little stuck-up.But he had scored a few points by ordering vegetarian appetizers from her favorite vegan restaurant.My first thought was that he was cute and kind of charming, she said. There was a bit of a spark.Several months later, Ms. Darrisaw, who was now single, was out with friends celebrating a new job. They were at a restaurant in Harlem when Mr. Cheeks, also unattached, walked through the door.He looked extra nice that day, said Ms. Darrisaw, who wasted no time turning that old spark into a new flame. You should take me on a date, she said, momentarily stunning Mr. Cheeks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Cheeks, who said that Ms. Darrisaw seemed on par with my original feeling that she was stuck up, said he simply told her, Fine, give me your number.He did not call that weekend. I thought maybe he just blew me off, she said.As it turned out, Mr. Cheeks lost his cellphone in a cab and had to ask their mutual friend, through Facebook, for Ms. Darrisaws number. When he finally connected with her in August 2012, she appeared to be putting him off, saying that she was headed to the 2012 Olympics in London, and would start a new job shortly thereafter. She also said she planned on spending about three months concentrating on her new job, which meant that she wouldnt be able to see him until October.At first I was aggressive with him, and then I went and flipped the script, Ms. Darrisaw said. So I thought for sure he wouldnt stick around.But Mr. Cheeks surprised her. I thought, O.K., shes very serious about her career, and thats a good thing, he said. If she wanted to take it slow, well, I had some time on my hands.AdvertisementOnce again, he scored a few more points.The fact that he was cool about my plan and he didnt seem offended made him very attractive to me, Ms. Darrisaw said. That told me that he was very respectful of my work and my boundaries.In October he called, and they went on a first date at the same restaurant where he had first ordered vegetarian appetizers for her.She was cooler and a lot more down to earth than I expected her to be, Mr. Cheeks said.She was feeling much the same about him. A part of me had thought that since he was the son of a great N.B.A. player, hed be a little full of himself, Ms. Darrisaw said. But we laughed so much and had such good chemistry together.I was never someone who kissed on a first date, she said, but I definitely did some kissing that night.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: The Delay Game Worked for Both of Them.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
FEB. 12, 2018

In the past few weeks, we've heard from thousands of students and recent graduates who are interested in  contributing to The Edit this year. We're planning to relaunch the newsletter in the coming months, and we want your input. To help us learn more about you and what you're interested in, please fill out the form below.If you haven't already subscribed to The Edit,  please sign up here.You have 100 words left.By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, does not plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, does not violate anyones rights and is not libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to our Terms of Service.Thank you for your submission.AdvertisementBy SIOBHAN BURKEFEB. 13, 2018
If you search Instagram these days for the handle @PS122, you wont find the institution formerly known as Performance Space 122 (PS122 for short). Instead youll discover a new, anonymous account that calls itself You Cant Kill a Ghost, with 29 followers, a single photo of the color red and a one-word bio: History.The account is one of the more playful responses to have cropped up online in the few weeks since PS122, with its nearly 40-year history as a home for subversive performance, announced it was changing its name. The place where Spalding Gray performed his last monologues, where Sarah Michelson unveiled her early choreographic experiments, where artists grappled with the onset of the AIDS epidemic — that place would now be called Performance Space New York.The change, timed to the long-delayed opening last month of Performance Spaces renovated East Village home, was part of a rebranding overseen by the institutions new artistic and executive director, Jenny Schlenzka. The update also included a mysterious new logo designed by the German visual artist Sarah Ortmeyer: a black heart with a corner sliced off. In the days after the announcement, that symbol seemed to capture the heartache expressed on social media among artists, critics and curators, as well as others with connections to what had been for them a familiar place in an ever-changing city.I am bereft, Nicky Paraiso, a curator at the nearby theater La MaMa and a longtime East Village resident, wrote in a public post on Facebook. Some criticized the change as an erasure of the organizations history. Others took issue with the choice of a generic-sounding name over one reflecting the origins of PS122, which was founded in 1980 when a group of artists took over an abandoned public school.AdvertisementIn honor of PS122s decision to rebrand as Performance Space New York, I am considering changing my name to Personal Name, Adam Feldman, a theater critic for Time Out New York, wrote on Twitter.AdvertisementThe initial outcry has subsided, but as Performance Space prepares to present the East Village Series — the first series organized by Ms. Schlenzka — this weekend, questions linger about the new identity. To what extent does a name matter? What happens to the history it holds? How to reconcile this renaming, a break from the past, with the East Village Series programming, which takes inspiration from the history of Performance Space and its neighborhood?Speaking by phone last week, Ms. Schlenzka said that although she had read some negative comments online, she felt the reception of the name over all had been so much more positive and understanding than I anticipated, especially from people I was very nervous to tell.Among those people, she said, was Tim Miller, a founder of PS122 whose designs for brochures and posters helped to create its original visual identity.I think PS122 already was quite a good brand, and obviously I would, Mr. Miller said in a phone interview. But what happens there is what will matter more.The performance artist Lucy Sexton, who served on PS122s board of directors in the 1990s, said that the heated reactions stemmed from a strong sense of community and ownership of the space among artists, beginning with the founders. Continuing generations have also felt that ownership, she said.More important than the name, she added, was that we maintain the ethos of the space.For others who guided PS122 through its early years, the new name has been harder to accept. Mark Russell, the artistic and executive director from 1983 to 2004, noted the importance of places and names within the elusive medium of performance.Whats left after a performance is so ephemeral that the theater dust of this, the history of this, which is sometimes mostly communicated verbally — it matters, he said. Those places matter.Ms. Schlenzka reiterated that the change was part of an effort to make the space more accessible and identifiable. (In the past, she said, people had sometimes confused PS122 with a public school.)AdvertisementOn the question of erasing what came before, she said: If anything, the history of our organization is our biggest asset and our biggest inspiration. The East Village Series is an invitation to have that conversation.The series begins on Saturday afternoon with a nod to an often-overlooked chapter of the neighborhoods history, that of the Lenape, the indigenous people of New York and other parts of the Northeast region called Lenapehoking. Welcome to Lenapehoking, a celebration organized with the Lenape Center, salutes the past and present of Native American art and performance.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Sunday the focus shifts to Performance Spaces storied past with Avant-Garde-Arama, a raucous live art sampler that dates back to PS122s earliest days. The free event will feature more than 30 artists performing throughout the renovated theaters and offices.The months ahead will bring a sub-series focused on the writer Kathy Acker, and commissioned works by Ms. Michelson and Yve Laris Cohen, both of whom will explore the architecture and history of the building, Ms. Schlenzka said.For some, visiting the two new top-floor theaters — which bear little resemblance to the scrappier old ones — has contributed to a change of heart. The once bereft Mr. Paraiso called the larger of the two theaters, with its high ceilings and views of Lower Manhattan, an epiphany, a revelation.Ive come sort of 180 degrees from my initial reaction, he said, to feeling more pragmatically that the new executive artistic director should be able to start afresh with a clean slate and her own artistic vision of the present and into the future.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page C5 of the New York edition with the headline: When PS122 Became Performance Space New York.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Bobbi DempseyHazleton, Pa. — President Trumps new plan to limit and control what low-income families can eat is short on both compassion and common sense.The presidents proposed budget that was unveiled this week includes a radical change to the way the food-stamps program, known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, works. Now, recipients of SNAP benefits choose produce, meat, fish and other groceries for themselves. Under his proposal many SNAP recipients would have half their monthly benefits replaced by packages of food selected by the government.According to  the Department of Agriculture, this program, called Americas Harvest Box, would involve about 81 percent of all SNAP households. The boxes would consist of shelf-stable foods like peanut butter, pasta and canned goods, but the plan is skimpy on other details, such as specifics on how exactly these food packages would be distributed.As someone who grew up needing food stamps and free school lunches, I cannot understand the logic or lack of empathy behind this plan.I spent my entire childhood in poverty, reliant on public assistance from the day I was born until my high school graduation and with a few brief sporadic returns after that. Some of my most vivid childhood memories involve accompanying my mother to the store, where she exchanged food stamps for the groceries our family needed. In those days, food stamps came in paper form, so she had to perform a ritual at the checkout counter, tearing each voucher from its booklet.These days, electronic cards called E.B.T.s, which can be used like credit cards at checkout, eliminate the awkward process of fumbling with booklets. But that doesnt make it any less painful to be so poor that you need help paying for food. Being poor means getting shamed and criticized for each minor decision you make, both by politicians and your neighbors standing in line behind you at the grocery store.Federal guidelines already dictate what can and cannot be purchased with food stamps, yet poor people are subjected to endless commentary and condemnation from cable news pundits to Facebook friends over their grocery selections. Are they picking items with enough nutrition? Are they choosing products that are more expensive, or more enjoyable, than they deserve?Americans of all income levels occasionally make food choices that arent the healthiest or most economical, but its the poor — who often have few other ways to indulge themselves and their children — who are judged most harshly when they do so.As a result, poor people are constantly required to explain their circumstances, and justify their every choice. This is especially true for parents who must rely on social programs to feed their children. The proposed Harvest Box further reinforces the notion that low-income parents cant be trusted to determine whats best for their own children. The implication is that wiser authority figures should dictate what these families should and can eat.Its hard to imagine that many of the people who create or oversee these programs have any actual experience with poverty. This lack of insight into the real lives of poor people leads those in charge to come up with ideas that are ridiculously impractical, unrealistic and even laughable.Theyre as out of touch as celebrities whove tried to do the food stamp challenge — surviving for a week or a month on the food they can buy with an amount equal to the benefits poor people receive — and end up blowing their entire budget on limes and black licorice. Im curious how what should go into these prearranged packages would be determined. I also want to know what accommodations will be made for those with food allergies or dietary restrictions.Until recently, my mother was eligible for a similar monthly food package as part of a program for the elderly. Transportation issues made it difficult for her to even pick up these boxes, but when she did get them, she ended up giving away at least half the items because they were foods doctors told her not to eat or that she simply didnt like.Harvest Boxes would inevitably lead to significant waste for similar reasons. Ive heard this proposed model compared with popular services like Blue Apron or Fresh Direct (services that I, as a working-class person, have never used because they are way too expensive). But the only thing the Trump proposal has in common with these services, which wealthy people use to expand rather than limit their dining choices, is the box. Beyond that, I cannot even imagine the logistics involved with trying to manage a food-package program of this magnitude — and given the Trump administrations disappointing record when it came to delivering meals in post-hurricane Puerto Rico, Im not at all hopeful that the quality of the food would be as promised or that people who need it would actually receive it.Assessing the SNAP system to identify ways to improve efficiency and reduce fraud is a good thing. But making a major change that deprives low-income people of much of the already limited control they have over one of the most basic elements of their daily existence is not only cruel, it is a recipe for huge waste.Bobbi Dempsey is a writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bret StephensStudents at the University of Michigan have staged a rare protest against the brutal dictatorship of Venezuelas Nicolás Maduro. According to The Michigan Daily, more than 100 people joined a rally less than 24 hours after two students created an SOS Venezuela Facebook event.I think the event created a lot of awareness, not just for the University students, but in general, The Daily quoted a sophomore as saying. I think these voices that were heard today are going to keep carrying on; people are going to keep talking about this for a while.Go Blue, for raising awareness of the worst humanitarian disaster to befall the Western Hemisphere in decades. Just one problem: The protest took place four years ago.Scour the Web and youll find a handful of reports of anti-Maduro protests or teach-ins at universities in recent years, usually organized by Venezuelans living in the U.S. And most politically informed people are more-or-less aware of Venezuelas political and economic disorders. No doubt they dont like what they see, and no doubt they wish it were otherwise.They just dont seem to care that much.Every generation of campus activists embraces a worthy foreign-policy cause: Ending apartheid in South Africa; stopping ethnic cleansing in the Balkans; rescuing Darfur from starvation and genocide. And then theres the perennial — and perennially unworthy — cause of freeing Palestine, for which there never is a shortage of credulous campus zealots.Then there are the humanitarian causes young activists generally dont embrace, at least not in a big way. Cubas political prisoners. Islamist violence against Christians in the Middle East. The vast and terrifying concentration camp that is North Korea. Where are the campus protests over any of that?The case of Venezuela ought to be an especially worthy one for college students. It is urgent. It is close by. Its victims are fighting for democracy, for human rights, for the ability to feed their children.Nor is the outrage in any way obscure. The Timess Nicholas Casey has for years provided an unforgettable chronicle of human tragedy in the form of Venezuelan parents burying their starving children, of hospital patients dying for lack of basics such as antibiotics or oxygen tanks, of yet another generation of boat people risking their lives on the high seas to flee their socialist paradise. Nearly three million Venezuelans — one-tenth of the total population — have now fled the country, according to The Wall Street Journal, creating a refugee crisis comparable to that of the Rohingya in Myanmar.So why the relative silence? Part of the reason is that campus activism is a left-wing phenomenon, making it awkward to target left-wing villains.A larger reason is that, until a few years ago, the Venezuelan regime was a cause of the left, cheered by people like Naomi Klein, Sean Penn and Danny Glover. Left-wing publications such as Glenn Greenwalds The Intercept have gone out of their way to make excuses for the regime and treat its critics as Washington stooges. Jeremy Corbyn, who could yet be Britains next prime minister, memorialized the late dictator Hugo Chávez in 2013 for his massive contributions to Venezuela & a very wide world.Even today, the criticism is amazingly muted. If Klein has seriously come to terms with Maduros tyranny or Venezuelas catastrophe, she has not done it in The Nation, The Guardian, or anywhere indexed by LexisNexis or Factiva. Corbyns response to Maduros repression has been to voice his condemnation of the violence thats been done by any side, by all sides — a piece of obfuscatory equivalence worthy of Donald Trumps Charlottesville remark. Penn and Glover seem to have moved on to other causes, like bashing Trump. Such courage.That leaves the cause of Venezuelas deliverance from evil in the hands of … Mike Pence. The vice president may not be the ideal spokesman for the rights of a Latin American country, at least in the eyes of the typical undergraduate political activist. And some of the Trump administrations policy prescriptions, such as broad sanctions on the Venezuelan economy, may do more to tighten Maduros grip than to crush it. (More effective are U.S. sanctions on Venezuelan government officials, which target the guilty and spare the innocent.)Still, it says something about the moral dereliction of too many liberals that Pence has been a clarion voice of attention and outrage at the unfolding catastrophe, while they mostly remain silent. When youve ceded the moral high ground to the Trump administration, youve ceded a piece of your soul.It would be nice to suppose that Venezuelas agonies will soon be at an end, on the theory that it cant go on like this much longer. People said that about Syria several years ago, too. How many more Venezuelans have to starve or drown before Western liberals do something more than merely shake their heads?I invite you to follow me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementBy STEPHANIE GOODMANFEB. 14, 2018
Critics hate The Greatest Showman; moviegoers love it. The split caught professional film journalists like myself by surprise when the musical, which opened in December to tepid business, became a box-office smash and the soundtrack topped the charts in the weeks since. But I didnt get it: What was so great about The Greatest Showman?I asked, and you responded.Nearly 1,200 readers took to nytimes.com, Facebook and Twitter to explain what they loved about the movie. Two emailed directly with passionate defenses. A colleague stopped me to share his surprise at truly enjoying it. The films star, Hugh Jackman, even tweeted about my question, setting off another round of fans who emphatically told me how they felt.
            Hey Stephanie I truly appreciate your honesty and your openness to hear why people love Showman. Over to you all ... HJ @GreatestShowman @nytimeshttps://t.co/5sV8R7g4Cm 
            She is wrong! Stephanie you're wrong! It's one of the best films of all time...Hugh is amazing..the songs are amazing! It's so entertaining...Stephanie couldn't be more wrong if she tried!        Trying to be less wrong, I decided to go see the movie again, this time keeping in mind your reasons. Strikingly, a sizable number of you have seen The Greatest Showman two, three and, in one case, 20 times. Your explanations reflected that devotion, which was effusive and heartfelt, whether speaking about the music, Hugh Jackmans performance or the experience of watching it with loved ones. A lot of you cited the current political moment but to make different points: Some of you found Showman an escape from the news, while others viewed the films messages as a response to the headlines.Heres a small taste of the answers, edited for clarity and length because you had a lot to say.At some point everyone feels like an outsider. Being adopted Ive heard over and over again that Im not Latina enough or not Jewish enough. But this is me. This movie emphasizes self love. It has a wonderful message. A tribute to humanity. I saw it three times and I cannot wait until it comes out so I can buy it. REBECCA L. ALEXANDEREvery song is singable and every song has a positive message. Add to that the element that many of the characters are outcasts and freaks of their day. This is a film for this moment in time where issues of equality are no longer discussed on the fringes but are being confronted head-on. SCOTT BERGAdvertisementThe characters in the movie were societys outcasts and were given a place where they belonged and were celebrated. Its an important message to convey, especially now. BETH JANZEN BEZOOYENAdvertisementIts the message. Dream. Live. Find your tribe. Dont be afraid to blunder. Rise up. Fall in love. Show the world who you are. How can you not understand why its so good? NESSA FERRELLSeeing this movie was the release I needed to rid my mind of the social and political garbage our country is stewing in. Ive never been a fan of musicals. However, I patiently sat through the film and it was worth every minute. As for critics, who the hell knows. Like many a movie, they were wrong on this one. RONDA HOOPERMany people today are waking up each morning wondering, What the heck is going to happen today? They are angry, sad, frustrated and feeling helpless when they watch the news. The Greatest Showman is 105 minutes of pure heart stopping, toe tapping entertainment. It allows us to escape. BARBARA ISHAMI am a legal aid attorney. A lot of my cases involve child abuse — it breaks my heart to see these children. A particularly horrible case came my way yesterday. During my commute, I put on The Greatest Showman soundtrack. And I felt better. I contemplated going to see the movie again (I have seen in 6.3 times — once I was taking my kids to another movie and kept sneaking into Greatest Showman). There is an indelible magical component of Greatest Showman that makes you feel like hope is out there, that good people are out there, and that we can have joy and happiness —even when we make mistakes. J. WATERSIm a 44-year-old male high school English teacher, and I have seen The Greatest Showman eight times with my wife. First, its about a circus — and circuses have always offered the masses a much-needed break from reality. There is also a happy ending for everyone. Yes, its hokey, but you leave the theater with a light heart and a smile on your face. CHRIS BRYANTAre you kidding me? The songs are golden. I cannot get enough of the soundtrack. And the movie was touching. The moment on the rooftop with his daughters was beautiful. I think many parents can relate to that feeling of wanting to give your kids a world of opportunities that were maybe unavailable to you in some way. HALEY KASPRZYKThe music is uplifting and joyful in a way that I havent heard in such a long time. The choreography, costuming and sets were beautiful to me. And, most important, the story of a man losing his way and coming home was something I needed in these difficult times. ASHLEY C. NICHOLSPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Everything. The songs, the lessons ... the fact that my children loved it. I hate paying for the movies and weve seen it twice. We sing This Is Me as a family when someone is feeling down. Its an amazing message and movie. STEPHANIE BASTEKAdvertisementThis weekend will be my third time seeing the film. Is the film an accurate biopic about Barnum? No. Was Barnum as great a humanitarian as Hugh Jackman is in the film? Most likely not. But were judging him by todays times instead of the times in which he lived. Instead, they gave us memorable songs to express what the characters were feeling and actors who can say much with little or no dialogue. ANGELA WEAVERThe emotions between Carlyle [Zac Efron] and Anne [Zendaya] reminded me of how I felt when I first met my husband — I didnt think you could bottle that but it turns out, through Rewrite the Stars, you can. SARAH TAYLORIm a grown woman — but this movie makes you feel like you are 17 again and that you can fly (like Zendaya). You walk out the theater on a cloud feeling victorious. It makes you believe everything could be possible: love, dreams, jobs, businesses, success. Maybe I should look into buying a trapeze. TARA DEMOSSI tried to beg off seeing The Greatest Showman, and I reluctantly went with my husband. The movie hit me hard — I was emotionally hooked by the underdog story, the music, Hugh Jackman, the sheer joy of the performances, the way it made me feel for days afterwards. I kept humming the songs (seriously, humming the songs all day), streaming the music, watching the YouTube videos of the actors practices. This was abnormal behavior for me, luckily my husband loved the movie, too. SUSAN MAYFIELDI have seen this movie 20 times. No joke. I wasnt expecting anything special when my friend begged me to join her. By the time it ended, I felt a gut punch of emotions — a shot of pure joy straight to my soul in a time that I so desperately needed. ROBERT NOREIGAThe people in the theater actually clapped at the end of this movie. It was almost like a theater experience. Love the music. KATHY SIBLEIm answering your question because I want Hugh Jackman to be able to make more movies like this one. Hugh Jackman is, to me, the most underappreciated entertainer of this generation by Hollywoods elite and critics. His talent, humanity, charisma and masculine energy light up a stage and screen, and he pours his heart and soul into his performances. THERESA MAHFOODThe movie is what its about. You watch it like youre at the circus. You dont care if its fake or low brow. You let yourself enjoy the music, characters and choreography. And you, Stephanie Goodman, are playing right into it. Youre the critic in the movie who didnt like the circus, but had to admit that the people did. KATY VAN SANTFor the record Im an editor, not a critic, but the irony of watching a fictional newspaper critic who hated Barnums work was not lost on me. In Showman he comes to feel a grudging respect for Barnum, and upon a second viewing I too came around — a little. When Jenny Lind takes the stage to sing Never Enough as Barnum falls for her, his wife watches and disapproving stares douse the sparks between Zac Efron and Zendaya, I was transported and suddenly got it. This is the romance and escapism you were talking about!Unfortunately the moment didnt last for me but Ill give the fans one more turn. On Facebook, Hillary Vandenberg wrote that shed seen the movie three times and added, I cant wait for it to be on Broadway.AdvertisementWhat do you say, Hugh?A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2018, on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: We Say Turkey. You Say Sigh.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byText by Remy TuminPhotographs by Tako RobakidzeImagine waking up and realizing that you are now living in a different country. But you never moved. Such is the case for people living in Tskhinvali, or South Ossetia, a region recognized by the United States and NATO as Georgian territory but a Russian stronghold for the last 30 years. A truce was ostensibly called in 2008, but as the photographer Tako Robakidze discovered, ask any Georgian in the area and they will insist the conflict never really ended. There are two kinds of people along the border, people who fight every day along the creeping border and people who have lost everything, said Ms. Robakidze, who grew up in the Georgian capital of Tbilisi and documented the crisis in Creeping Borders, a new project. Overnight, you can find out your land or your house is now in occupied territory.The Republic of South Ossetia is a self-proclaimed breakaway state backed and controlled by Moscow. The mountainous region declared independence from Georgia in 1990, but it wasnt until Russia invaded in August 2008 and recognized South Ossetias statehood that tensions began to rise, leading to a five-day war between Russia and Georgia. Despite the truce, Russian-backed forces continue to encroach on Georgian territory. Just last week, the United States condemned a deal for a joint military force the Russians made with the separatists in South Ossetia. The de facto border is recognized only by Russia and three other countries. Since 2008, more than 300,000 Georgians have been displaced from their homes. In 2011, Russia fortified the borders, putting fences and barbed wire across wide swaths of the region. Now, Georgians cannot come within 200 meters of the border or risk being kidnapped, detained and fined.They cant go near the border because theyre afraid of detention, Ms. Robakidze said. There are no more pastures because the land is occupied; they cant have as many cows as they used to have. For more than a year, Ms. Robakidze visited villages across the region, where almost everyone she encountered had a similar story. When you talk with people who are in camps they tell you that there was a constant war for the whole period, Ms. Robakidze said, referring to camps for internationally displaced people. None of them expected something like this to happen, that they would leave their houses and never go back.Agriculture is an economic pillar for the region, and most local people support their families through livestock, fruits and vegetables. But the fields have dried out. And when water is available, the valve is controlled by Russians. They work the land they still have, this is how most of the people support their family, Ms. Robakidze said. Without their land, they will have nothing.Ms. Robakidze is working on an accompanying documentary for her project, and shared excerpts from her interviews with the villagers.No agreement matters, no kind of paper can stop a man who seeks war, one woman told her. When they say the war lasted five days, it was not five days of war for us. What awaits us? Are we going to remain in this messy scene? What do they want from us? In another interview, an 80-year-old man describes living in Georgia his entire life only to find one day his house has ended up in occupied territory. I am told not to cross the fence, where should I go from here, I dont know how to leave? the man told her. They said this territory is theirs and I told them, I am 80-year-old man and I have been a citizen for Georgia for 80 years, and now I have to become a citizen of Russia? Georgians and Russians in the region once had good relationships, celebrating holidays together and having mixed families. Now they find small joys in any kind of celebration or holiday. You cannot predict what will happen, Ms. Robakidze said, they dont know what will be tomorrow.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Tako Robakidze is on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Advertisement
FEB. 12, 2018

In the past few weeks, we've heard from thousands of students and recent graduates who are interested in  contributing to The Edit this year. We're planning to relaunch the newsletter in the coming months, and we want your input. To help us learn more about you and what you're interested in, please fill out the form below.If you haven't already subscribed to The Edit,  please sign up here.You have 100 words left.By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, does not plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, does not violate anyones rights and is not libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to our Terms of Service.Thank you for your submission.AdvertisementBy JACEY FORTINFEB. 12, 2018
Sam Rose has a son who loves Peter Rabbit, a character from a childrens book by Beatrix Potter, but she wont take him to see Peter Rabbit, the new movie loosely based on it.The issue? Her son has food allergies, and a scene in the film shows blackberries being used as a weapon. The backlash to the scene has already drawn an apology from the filmmakers.Peter Rabbit, which came out last week, features live actors and computer-generated animals. A human character named Tom McGregor is allergic to blackberries. In a quest to gain access to his garden, rabbits pelt him with fruits and vegetables before using a slingshot to send a blackberry flying into his mouth.It works.Mr. McGregor struggles to inject himself with an EpiPen and then has anaphylaxis and collapses.AdvertisementIm pretty sure Beatrix Potter will be turning in her grave about now, Ms. Rose, who lives outside Guildford in Surrey, England, said in an interview on Facebook Messenger. Allergies are often not taken seriously enough anyway. To have them trivialized on the big screen by such a popular character is immensely disappointing.AdvertisementIn an emailed statement on Sunday, the filmmakers and Sony Pictures apologized: Food allergies are a serious issue. Our film should not have made light of Peter Rabbits archnemesis, Mr. McGregor, being allergic to blackberries, even in a cartoonish, slapstick way.The statement, which was attributed in part to the films director, writers and producers, added, We sincerely regret not being more aware and sensitive to this issue, and we truly apologize.Kenneth Mendez, the president and chief executive of the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, saw the movie on Saturday.When the rabbits fire a blackberry into Mr. McGregors mouth, Mr. Mendez said, theres a close-up of his face, and its him holding his neck like hes choking. When Mr. McGregor collapses and appears to be dead for a moment, the rabbits cheer.Mr. Mendez said in an open letter to the moviemakers that they should not mock food allergies, which are often life-threatening.Making light of this condition hurts our members because it encourages the public not to take the risk of allergic reactions seriously, and this cavalier attitude may make them act in ways that could put an allergic person in danger, it said.Mr. McGregor, played by Domhnall Gleeson, is made out to be the villain for most of the movie. He is determined to keep rabbits off his property using whatever he needs, from garden tools to an electric fence.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Peter Rabbit is rascally too, and he seems to delight in mocking and hurting Mr. McGregor as the two battle for dominion over the garden.AdvertisementThe movie fits an old trope of childrens shows in which two nemeses (like Wile E. Coyote and the Road Runner, Elmer Fudd and Bugs Bunny, or Tom and Jerry) face off, often with slapstick violence in the form of explosions, high-speed crashes or falling anvils.The reaction to the blackberry attack in Peter Rabbit, which is rated PG for rude humor and action, was mixed on social media. Some objected to what they saw as an insensitive disregard for allergies, and groups from as far away as Australia called for an apology. Others said it was only a movie and suggested that parents use it to start a conversation with their children about allergies.Dr. Andrew Adesman, the chief of developmental and behavioral pediatrics at the Cohen Childrens Medical Center of New York in Queens, said he remembered watching Wile E. Coyote cartoons as a child. He said the blackberry attack in Peter Rabbit is a little different because it purposely exploits a persons health condition.Theres some research out there suggesting that what is depicted in this movie is a real-world experience for some children with life-threatening food allergies, Dr. Adesman said in an interview on Sunday. I can understand the outrage.Nicole Drey of Merrick, N.Y., said her son Brayden, 7, has such severe allergies that she takes him to movie theaters early in the day, when the air and the seats are as clean as possible.They went to see Peter Rabbit on Friday morning, Ms. Drey said in a phone interview. And when Mr. McGregor collapsed onscreen, she tried to reassure her son. I just kept explaining to him that its make believe, its not real, and people dont act that way, she said.Brayden did not like it.I was really afraid about the one part where they shot the blackberries, he said. I was upset because he had to use his EpiPen.In real life, he added, using the EpiPen is scary.Ms. Drey said that she knew it was just a childrens film, but that people that dont deal with this dont understand. She has spent years helping Brayden deal with bullying, isolation, medical appointments and the everyday logistical challenges of finding safe food.I think there should have been a trigger warning, and we should have been notified somehow, she said of the movie. Put it out there, so we can at least talk to our kids about the contents and then make an informed decision.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
FEB. 12, 2018

In the past few weeks, we've heard from thousands of students and recent graduates who are interested in  contributing to The Edit this year. We're planning to relaunch the newsletter in the coming months, and we want your input. To help us learn more about you and what you're interested in, please fill out the form below.If you haven't already subscribed to The Edit,  please sign up here.You have 100 words left.By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, does not plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, does not violate anyones rights and is not libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to our Terms of Service.Thank you for your submission.AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 13, 2018
 Happy Tuesday. Heres what were watching:• Maybe the meal-kit industry isnt dead yet.• Blackstone names Jonathan Gray as president and C.O.O.• Broadcom just moved the goal posts in its hostile takeover bid for Qualcomm.• How market volatility has helped the Federal Reserve.• A lawsuit peels back the curtain at Point72.• More on the Trump infrastructure plan.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.The mighty Goldman business of trading bonds, derivatives, currencies and commodities has disappointed in recent years. Several years of calm in those markets caused a steep drop off in trading revenue.AdvertisementThat is why Lloyd Blankfein, Goldmans chief executive, speaking at an investor conference on Tuesday, seemed to embrace the recent market volatility – and see it as an opportunity to invest more in its underperforming trading operations. Noting the strength of the global economy and the big recent movements in oil prices and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, Mr. Blankfein said:In this context, I dont think it would be a good strategic move to forgo the upside in the business from here. In fact, we recently deployed more capital as we see a more attractive opportunity set.AdvertisementWall Street watchers should ask:Is this good or bad volatility? In recent years, investment bank executives had differentiated between two types of volatility: One that leads to less trading because it frightens and confuses investors, and another that generates a higher level of trading because investors see changes in yields and prices they have to adapt to. Goldman is counting on the latter.Is Goldman well positioned to profit? The bank has a plan to revamp its bond trading operations that centers on broadening the types of investors it does business with. The bank was too dependent on hedge funds that liked to make big bets on bonds, currencies and commodities, so it has made efforts to bring in large asset managers and other financial institutions as clients. But do these new clients trade anywhere near as much as the hedge funds, and are the trades they do as profitable as the ones the hedge funds favor?Goldmans first-quarter earnings could offer clues.Blue Apron gained notoriety when its I.P.O. proved to be one of the biggest busts last year and spurred talk that the meal kit industry was a flash in the pan. But its latest results showed some tentative signs of life — and those of its biggest rival, HelloFresh of Germany, suggest that it isnt worth writing off the sector just yet.What Blue Apron reported• For the fourth quarter, the company reported a 13 percent year-on-year drop in revenue, to $187.7 million — less than analysts had expected.• It also reported a $39 million loss for the quarter, again a smaller loss than expected.• Both the cost of goods sold and marketing expenditures were down from the year-ago period.• The companys customer rolls dropped 15 percent year-on-year to 746,000, though the company said that was to be expected from the lower marketing spend.• The average orders per customer and revenue per customer each rose a tiny bit.Blue Aprons ability to hold the line on marketing expenses was probably the most promising sign, though that was in part because management was also focused on improving operations at the companys distribution center in Linden, N.J.AdvertisementThe HelloFresh perspectiveHelloFresh has had a better run in the stock markets since going public last year. The latest good news for the company: Its preliminary sales numbers for its just-closed fiscal quarter beat analyst expectations, while its customer base has grown.Heres what its C.E.O., Dominik Richter, told me last week about why the meal-kit business isnt doomed, necessarily:• His company has managed to make its marketing profitable, with every dollar spent turning into $3 in sales.• Though the company overall has run a loss — 93 million euro, or $115 million, in the 2016 fiscal year — it has shown profitability in some of its markets. Mr. Richter contended that the company could become profitable this year. Its not something that we need to strive for or put a lot of effort into, he said.• He added that he doesnt see supermarkets selling their own meal kits as true competitors, running counter to investor fears that the combined Amazon/Whole Foods portends doom for smaller competitors. We have more in common with Chipotle or a fast-casual chain, he said.The tale of the tapeBlue Aprons shares are down 66 percent since their debut. HelloFreshs are up 23 percent since they started trading.— Michael de la MercedThe head of Blackstones real estate business has long been considered the likely successor to Hamilton Tony James, the firms president and chief operating officer.Today that became a reality.Blackstone announced that Mr. Gray will become the private-equity firms president and C.O.O., taking over the day-to-day operations of the firm. Mr. James was named executive vice chairman. Both will report to Stephen A. Schwarzman, Blackstones co-founder, chairman and chief executive.Mr. Gray, 48, joined Blackstone straight out of college in 1992. He has led Blackstones real estate group since its creation in 2005.AdvertisementMr. James, 67, joined Blackstone in 2002 as vice chairman and C.O.O. He was named president in 2006.I have had a wonderful 15 years at Blackstone so far and still savor every minute of it. One of my most important responsibilities is succession, and I am blessed to have a spectacular leader and investor like Jon Gray to whom I can hand the reins, Mr. James said.The Federal Reserve chairman took his position this year facing plenty of economic factors that could stoke inflation, including:• Resurgent global economies• Years of cheap and plentiful credit• Joblessness falling to multiyear lows, making it easier for workers to get a raise or a bonus, which could push up companies costsThen the Feds job got harder. Congress passed a large tax cut that will add a jolt of stimulus to an economy that no longer needs extra juice. The stock market loved it and kept zooming higher.But turbulence hit. On Feb. 5, the Dow Jones industrial average plummeted over 1,100 points, or 4.6 percent.That brought some much-needed caution• Junk bonds, for instance, have sold off. (Financial conditions, however, are still loose enough for Broadcom to raise $100 billion in the debt markets for its Qualcomm takeover bid.)• Investors in the stock market, down 7.6 percent from its high, now know the party cant go on uninterrupted.• People are having a real debate about inflation.In other words, nose-diving stocks did Mr. Powell a favor: They threw some cold water on the animal spirits that Congress whipped up.The notes of cautionThe best scenario for the Fed is that the rate hikes forecast for this year are enough to also limit the stimulus from the tax overhaul.AdvertisementMeanwhile, to finance the deficit, the Treasury Department now has to sell more billions of dollars of extra bonds. The huge new government demand for credit could push up interest rates in the markets. The Fed may be fine with that, given that it is expected to raise interest rates this year. But if interest rates in the bond market spike higher than investors expect, or the Fed is happy with, Mr. Powell would face his first big challenge as Fed chairman.— Peter EavisAnd for the Feds No. 2 spot..: The WSJ is reporting that the Trump administration is considering nominating Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester as vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Board in Washington.In brief prepared remarks at a ceremonial swearing-in on Tuesday, Mr. Powell said: While the challenges we face are always evolving, the Feds approach will remain the same. Today, the global economy is recovering strongly for the first time in a decade. We are in the process of gradually normalizing both interest rate policy and our balance sheet with a view to extending the recovery and sustaining the pursuit of our objectives.Is the 30-year bull market in bonds over? Ray Dalio thinks so. The Bridgewater Associates mogul wrote on LinkedIn, We dont know exactly how far we are from the top in the stock market and then the economy, though it is clear that we are past the top in the bond market. (Others disagree.)More in markets: They jumped yesterday, but how will they react to the Bureau of Labor Statistics inflation report tomorrow? And who is 50 Cent, the trader who made $200 million from last weeks volatility?In its prime, Chipotle Mexican Grill positioned itself as the paragon of clean, casual, cool dining, a darling of Wall Street, a restaurant industry innovator.Basically, nothing like Taco Bell.How the tables have turned. Chipotle has spent the past few years struggling to recover from a string of food safety crises, steady abandonment by its clientele and a plunging stock price. For help, the chain is turning to the quick-serve cousin many once thought was inferior.Brian Niccol, the chief executive of Taco Bell, will replace Chipotles founder Steve Ells as chief executive on March 5. Mr. Niccol is tasked with replicating his success transforming Taco Bell from a fast food afterthought to a social media-savvy company with sleek new stores and a hugely popular Doritos Locos Tacos product.AdvertisementShares of Chipotle are up 12 percent after hours.— Tiffany HsuBroadcom announced on Tuesday that it is seeking only a majority of the chip makers board seats in next months shareholder vote.Broadcom said that it was now pursuing the election of six nominees that it had put forward, rather than the full 11 it had originally named.Mr. Tan essentially signaled that Broadcom would seek fewer board seats in an interview on CNBC on Monday.If at least a majority of our slate does not get in on March 6, then I guess we will get the message that this deal is not going to happen, he said. We will walk.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Both companies are expected to meet on Wednesday for the first time in months.— Michael de la MercedAfter nearly four years on Mondelez Internationals board, the activist investor Nelson Peltz is stepping down on March 1 to focus on his other board commitments.The decision comes two months after Mr. Peltz won a seat on Procter & Gambles board in what was one of the largest, priciest and nastiest corporate proxy fights in history. He will join P.&G.s board on March 1.Mondelez said that Debra Crew, the Reynolds American chief executive, and Peter May, Trian Fund president, will be named to the board the same day as Mr. Peltz steps down.AdvertisementMr. Peltz joined Mondelezs board in 2014 after he ended his push for a merger between Pepsi and Mondelez.As the billionaire prepares to get back in the hedge fund game with Point72 Asset Management, a lawsuit from a female executive, Lauren Bonner, has drawn back the curtain on what she describes as a toxic environment for women:• Just one of 125 portfolio managers is a woman.• Women were often excluded from meetings.• For several weeks last year, a white board in one executives office had pussy written on it.Mr. Cohen himself isnt accused of wrongdoing, and Point72 denied the allegations.The bigger picture: Point72 is expected to open as a full-fledged hedge fund this year, after Mr. Cohens ban from the securities industry expired in 2017. And Ms. Bonners lawsuit is an unusually prominent sexual discrimination case in the world of hedge funds.The misconduct flyaround• In his latest column, Andrew asks whether it helps Harvey Weinsteins victims for the New York attorney general to block the sale of the Weinstein Company? (NYT)• Betterworks Systems shows how hard it is for a Silicon Valley start-up to move on from a sexual harassment scandal. (Bloomberg)• The C.E.O. of the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Javier Palomarez, was ousted amid allegations of financial impropriety and sexual harassment. (NYT)Among the assets that could be sold to private financiers if the White House got its $1.5 trillion infrastructure investment program:• Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and Dulles International Airport• The George Washington and Baltimore Washington parkways• The Washington AqueductThe thinking behind the planThe administration believes private investors can do a better job of running highways, airports and railroads than the government, and states and local governments can do a better job of allocating money. But critics say its plan unfairly favors rural areas over liberal-leaning major cities. (Economists also say that its a bizarre time for such a stimulus, Ben White of Politico writes.)AdvertisementAn interesting point about infrastructure investmentDan Primack of Axios points out:The average level of return sought by infrastructure investment funds was about 10.6 percent in 2016, down from 14 percent in 2004, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers and the Global Infrastructure Investor Association. Theyre generally considered a low-but-steady return asset class, which may be why they only raised about $200 billion from 2006 to 2016.The big question: Can private investors fill in the $1.3 trillion required to fulfill the White Houses vision?• The White Houses $4.4 trillion budget (which lawmakers will likely ignore) would add $7 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. The Trump administrations budget chief, Mick Mulvaney, conceded, Does it balance? No, it doesnt.• The administration is suffering from a 34 percent turnover rate, the highest for a White House in decades. (NYT)• The controversy over Rob Porter again raised the issue of national security clearances at the White House — and why Jared Kushners still isnt permanent. (NYT)• Reciprocal taxes on countries the White House considers unfair trade partners wont be simple to enact. (NYT)• On immigration, the Senate is taking an unusual approach: an open-ended debate to build a bill from scratch on the legislative floor. (NYT)• Republicans are pressuring Bob Corker to consider staying on, for fear of losing his Senate seat. (Politico)When Mark Zuckerberg said it was pretty crazy to think fake news on Facebook could tip an election, one executive feared that the company would head down the pariah path that Uber was on. Now, people say that he has faced a deeper realization about that ways that the platform can be abused.AdvertisementHeres a recounting of what Mr. Zuckerberg told employees last Thanksgiving about the companys responsibility, from Nicholas Thompson and Fred Vogelstein of Wired:According to one attendee, the remarks came across as blunter and more personal than any theyd ever heard from Zuckerberg. He seemed humble, even a little chastened. I dont think he sleeps well at night, the employee says. I think he has remorse for what has happened.More Facebook news: Its losing younger users, eMarketer says. Its default privacy settings violate German law, a Berlin court says. And its experimenting with a news section on its video platform to help users find reliable sources.The tech flyaround• Scott Galloway of NYUs Stern School of Business says that its time to break up Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google. (Esquire)• Amazon is laying off hundreds of employees in Seattle and internationally, unnamed sources say. (Seattle Times)• Russia has threatened to block YouTube and Instagram if they dont take down videos and photos relating to the oligarch Oleg Deripaska. (NYT)• A cyberattack disrupted internet access and telecasts during the Winter Olympics opening ceremony. (NYT)• The Trump White House has done little to counter Chinas rise in A.I. research. (NYT)• Google is selling access to its powerful A.I. chips. (NYT)• Top university computer science courses are rushing to add ethics courses. (NYT)• Who gets to experience 5G first? Pyeongchangs wild boars. (Bloomberg)Broadcoms C.E.O., Hock Tan, told CNBC what would stop him, as the companies prepare for a Valentines Day meeting:• If Qualcomms shareholders dont vote for a majority of the directors that Broadcom has nominated for its targets board. I guess we will get the message that this deal is not going to happen, he said.Advertisement• If Qualcomm raises its bid for NXP Semiconductors beyond $110 a share. We have made it very clear, its a clear transfer of value from Qualcomm shareholders to NXPI shareholders, he said.The deals flyaround• Walgreens Boots Alliance has made a preliminary takeover bid for AmerisourceBergen, a drug distributor that it owns 26 percent of, unnamed sources say. (WSJ)• Disney may need to raise its $52.4 billion bid for Fox to stave off Comcast. (Breakingviews)• Fox has offered to insulate Sky Newss editorial staff as a concession to British regulators considering its bid for the satellite broadcaster Sky. (WSJ)• Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason, two big investors in Xerox, urged their fellow shareholders not to let Fuji steal the company. (Reuters)• General Dynamics $6.8 billion bid for CSRA highlights an era of increased military spending. (DealBook)• Heres the betting on who will buy Time Inc. titles from Meredith. (Vanity Fair)• Equifax hired Jamil Farshchi as its chief information security officer, in the wake of its giant data breach last year. (WSJ)• Snaps head of sales, Jeff Lucas, is leaving as the company relies more on automated ad bidding. Its the latest in a string of executive departures. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• The gun maker Remington Outdoor said it would file for bankruptcy protection, a blow to Cerberus Capital, which acquired the company in 2007. (Bloomberg)• Do the unprecedented penalties that the Federal Reserve imposed on Wells Fargo herald a broader crackdown? (NYT)• Apollos Leon Black pocketed $191.3 million last year, 45 percent up on 2016. (Bloomberg)• HNA is seeking to sell more than $6 billion worth of property as pressure intensifies over its debt. (Bloomberg)• 3G Capital has made Kraft Heinz a much more efficient manufacturer, but it now faces a less familiar challenge: changing consumer tastes. (WSJ)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing misstated the age of Hamilton Tony James, Blackstones executive vice chairman. He is 67, not 66.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NEIL MacFARQUHARFEB. 12, 2018
MOSCOW — Trolling between the United States and Russia apparently is not limited to Twitter bots.The latest effort involves street names.More specifically, it involves renaming the streets on which the Russian and American Embassies sit in a way that is sure to provoke annoyance — or laughter — in each others capital.In Moscow, the proposed name for an alley near the United States Embassy is 1 North American Dead End.Mikhail Degtyaryov, a right-wing Russian lawmaker who suggested the name, confirmed on Twitter on Monday that the appropriate Moscow city commission would take up his suggestion later in February.AdvertisementTo be fair, the United States started it.On Jan. 10, the City Council in Washington changed the name of the block of Wisconsin Avenue where the Russian Embassy sits to 1 Boris Nemtsov Plaza. Mr. Nemtsov, a charismatic opposition politician and fierce Kremlin critic, was fatally shot near the Kremlin walls in February 2015.AdvertisementAlthough five Chechen men were jailed for the crime, Mr. Nemtsovs family and friends, some of whom lobbied for the street name, believe that the real mastermind has never been publicly identified. The change received a sympathetic response in Washington, especially after the Russian meddling in the 2016 American presidential election.Any change in Moscow still faces hurdles. Even if the commission recommends the name change, it will need the approval of city hall. The Kremlin is likely to have a say, and given its desire to improve relations with the United States, it might well scrap the idea.The chance that the city might consider a change, however, unleashed a tsunami of alternative suggestions and commentary on social media sites.They included a slew of streets and alleys named after foreign leaders who have clashed with the United States: the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un; Fidel Castro of Cuba; and Arab leaders whom the Russians consider to have been murdered under the auspices of the United States, like Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya and Saddam Hussein of Iraq.Colin Powells Tube was an odd street name inspired by the infamous United Nations speech the former secretary of state gave in 2003 to validate the American invasion of Iraq, in which he presented pictures of tubes in the desert that were said to be evidence of weapons of mass destruction. Hiroshima and Nagasaki were also mentioned.Like many such games, this one appears to be another wrinkle that has returned from the grave of the Cold War as diplomatic relations have suffered.In the 1980s, United States congressional leaders renamed the area in front of the Russian Embassy in Washington Sakharov Plaza, to protest the detention of Andrei D. Sakharov, the famed Russian dissident, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and nuclear physicist.AdvertisementSuch moves are not limited to Russia, either.Congress proposed renaming the street on which the Chinese Embassy sits in honor of Liu Xiaobo, the  dissident and Nobel laureate who died last year. Beijing called that effort a political farce. In 2014, Chinese commentators retaliated by suggesting renaming the street in front of the American Embassy in Beijing Snowden Street for Edward J. Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor who disclosed secret documents detailing the United States mass surveillance programs, or Osama bin Laden Road. Neither capital acted on the suggestions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Nor is the practice limited to major powers. On Monday, the mayor of Ankara, the Turkish capital, approved renaming a street outside the United States Embassy Olive Branch, after Turkeys continuing military campaign in Syria. The United States and Turkey have found themselves awkwardly on opposite sides of the fighting in Syria, because of the American militarys support for a Kurdish militia. The proposal is expected to be approved just days before Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson is expected in Ankara on Thursday.Previously, the Islamic Republic of Iran famously stripped the name of Winston Churchill from the street outside the British Embassy in Tehran and renamed it after Bobby Sands, a member of the Irish Republican Army who died in prison on hunger strike.Last year, the Iranians also named the street where the Saudi Arabian Embassy sits after Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr, a clerical leader from the Shiite Muslim minority who was executed in the kingdom.During the Vietnam War, India once changed the name of the street outside an American diplomatic mission to honor Ho Chi Minh.In Moscow, when the street in Washington was renamed for Mr. Nemtsov, the journalist Oleg Kashin suggested that it was telling that Russians would consider the Americans action a slur.The announcement about 1 North American Dead End also provoked criticism from opposition members and others who suggested that the name game was at best childish.Dmitri G. Gudkov, a former member of Parliament, noted that the city had brushed aside requests for a memorial to Mr. Nemtsov but jumped at the chance to change the street name near the American Embassy.The tribute to the memory of the Russian politician in Washington is perceived as a rebuke in Moscow, Mr. Gudkov wrote on Facebook. Our government is ashamed, and so they take revenge in a petty way.Ivan Nechepurenko contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: In Washington and Moscow, the Trolling Starts Right Outside the Embassy Gate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth PatonLONDON — Can you trademark a color?The French shoe designer Christian Louboutin — known for sky-high stiletto shoes with scarlet soles that can sell for upward of $1,000 — has been trying to do so for years. Mr. Louboutin first grabbed his assistants red nail polish and applied it to the outsoles of a shoe a quarter-century ago. Since then, he has frequently declared the design element to be his recognizable signature, and argued it merits legal protection.On Tuesday, the European Unions highest court dealt a blow to that effort.Mr. Louboutin had filed a lawsuit in 2012 against Van Haren, a Dutch company whose retail outlets were selling affordably priced high-heeled womens shoes with red soles. Lawyers for Mr. Louboutin claimed that the shoes sold by Van Haren, part of its Fifth Avenue by Halle Berry line, infringed on his brands trademark for footwear. That trademark, registered in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, referred to the color red (Pantone 18 1663TP) applied to the sole of a shoe.Van Haren had to temporarily stop making and selling the line of shoes, but the companys lawyers fought back and the case eventually made its way to the European Court of Justice.They have now won something of a reprieve. Maciej Szpunar, an advocate general for the court, said on Tuesday that Mr. Louboutins red soles were not a separate entity from the shape of his high-heeled shoes, and shapes typically cannot be trademarked under European Union law.In effect, he argued in a legal opinion, Mr. Louboutins red soles could be refused trademark protection, sending the case back to Dutch courts to consider. Judges in national courts typically, though not always, follow advice from the European Court of Justices advocates general.The case highlights one of the most difficult questions in fashion: In a world where designers often have distinct styles, and attract admirers based on those styles, what can, and cannot, be trademarked?Major luxury conglomerates like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton and Kering have historically been the most litigious, often using the courts to battle the counterfeiting that has long been a headache in the fashion industry. More recently, however, smaller brands and designers have also started to pursue legal action, particularly against larger luxury or fast-fashion companies that they claim use their designs without acknowledgment or permission.Last week, the Indian designer Orijit Sen and his New Delhi-based studio and store People Tree accused Christian Dior of plagiarizing a block print of a man doing yoga poses. Mr. Sen argued that he had formulated the design in 2000, and complained when it was used for a red dress worn by the Bollywood actress Sonam Kapoor on the cover of Elles Indian edition last month. He posted his complaints on Facebook under the title Unchristian Dior.And in 2016, the fast-fashion chain Zara was accused by at least 20 independent artists of plagiarizing designs, while one of the most powerful voices to emerge in the online fashion world in recent months is Diet Prada, an Instagram account dedicated to calling out copying in the industry.Indeed, illustrating the complexity of the issue, Mr. Louboutin himself previously won a battle against the rival luxury fashion house Yves Saint Laurent in a United States federal appeals court, allowing him to protect his red soles as a source-identifying trademark.But Mr. Szpunars opinion for the European Court of Justice could mean that Louboutin would not be able to stop its competitors, including haute couture fashion houses, from offering shoes with red soles, said Sanjay Kapur, a partner at the British law firm Potter Clarkson and a specialist in trademark law.Trying to persuade courts to grant such protection to designs like Mr. Louboutins may well be an insurmountable hurdle, Mr. Kapur said. The red sole could therefore become ubiquitous, which would seriously reduce the cachet associated with the Louboutin brand.Follow Elizabeth Paton on Twitter: @LizziePaton.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bret StephensStudents at the University of Michigan have staged a rare protest against the brutal dictatorship of Venezuelas Nicolás Maduro. According to The Michigan Daily, more than 100 people joined a rally less than 24 hours after two students created an SOS Venezuela Facebook event.I think the event created a lot of awareness, not just for the University students, but in general, The Daily quoted a sophomore as saying. I think these voices that were heard today are going to keep carrying on; people are going to keep talking about this for a while.Go Blue, for raising awareness of the worst humanitarian disaster to befall the Western Hemisphere in decades. Just one problem: The protest took place four years ago.Scour the Web and youll find a handful of reports of anti-Maduro protests or teach-ins at universities in recent years, usually organized by Venezuelans living in the U.S. And most politically informed people are more-or-less aware of Venezuelas political and economic disorders. No doubt they dont like what they see, and no doubt they wish it were otherwise.They just dont seem to care that much.Every generation of campus activists embraces a worthy foreign-policy cause: Ending apartheid in South Africa; stopping ethnic cleansing in the Balkans; rescuing Darfur from starvation and genocide. And then theres the perennial — and perennially unworthy — cause of freeing Palestine, for which there never is a shortage of credulous campus zealots.Then there are the humanitarian causes young activists generally dont embrace, at least not in a big way. Cubas political prisoners. Islamist violence against Christians in the Middle East. The vast and terrifying concentration camp that is North Korea. Where are the campus protests over any of that?The case of Venezuela ought to be an especially worthy one for college students. It is urgent. It is close by. Its victims are fighting for democracy, for human rights, for the ability to feed their children.Nor is the outrage in any way obscure. The Timess Nicholas Casey has for years provided an unforgettable chronicle of human tragedy in the form of Venezuelan parents burying their starving children, of hospital patients dying for lack of basics such as antibiotics or oxygen tanks, of yet another generation of boat people risking their lives on the high seas to flee their socialist paradise. Nearly three million Venezuelans — one-tenth of the total population — have now fled the country, according to The Wall Street Journal, creating a refugee crisis comparable to that of the Rohingya in Myanmar.So why the relative silence? Part of the reason is that campus activism is a left-wing phenomenon, making it awkward to target left-wing villains.A larger reason is that, until a few years ago, the Venezuelan regime was a cause of the left, cheered by people like Naomi Klein, Sean Penn and Danny Glover. Left-wing publications such as Glenn Greenwalds The Intercept have gone out of their way to make excuses for the regime and treat its critics as Washington stooges. Jeremy Corbyn, who could yet be Britains next prime minister, memorialized the late dictator Hugo Chávez in 2013 for his massive contributions to Venezuela & a very wide world.Even today, the criticism is amazingly muted. If Klein has seriously come to terms with Maduros tyranny or Venezuelas catastrophe, she has not done it in The Nation, The Guardian, or anywhere indexed by LexisNexis or Factiva. Corbyns response to Maduros repression has been to voice his condemnation of the violence thats been done by any side, by all sides — a piece of obfuscatory equivalence worthy of Donald Trumps Charlottesville remark. Penn and Glover seem to have moved on to other causes, like bashing Trump. Such courage.That leaves the cause of Venezuelas deliverance from evil in the hands of … Mike Pence. The vice president may not be the ideal spokesman for the rights of a Latin American country, at least in the eyes of the typical undergraduate political activist. And some of the Trump administrations policy prescriptions, such as broad sanctions on the Venezuelan economy, may do more to tighten Maduros grip than to crush it. (More effective are U.S. sanctions on Venezuelan government officials, which target the guilty and spare the innocent.)Still, it says something about the moral dereliction of too many liberals that Pence has been a clarion voice of attention and outrage at the unfolding catastrophe, while they mostly remain silent. When youve ceded the moral high ground to the Trump administration, youve ceded a piece of your soul.It would be nice to suppose that Venezuelas agonies will soon be at an end, on the theory that it cant go on like this much longer. People said that about Syria several years ago, too. How many more Venezuelans have to starve or drown before Western liberals do something more than merely shake their heads?I invite you to follow me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementBy NEIL MacFARQUHARFEB. 12, 2018
MOSCOW — Trolling between the United States and Russia apparently is not limited to Twitter bots.The latest effort involves street names.More specifically, it involves renaming the streets on which the Russian and American Embassies sit in a way that is sure to provoke annoyance — or laughter — in each others capital.In Moscow, the proposed name for an alley near the United States Embassy is 1 North American Dead End.Mikhail Degtyaryov, a right-wing Russian lawmaker who suggested the name, confirmed on Twitter on Monday that the appropriate Moscow city commission would take up his suggestion later in February.AdvertisementTo be fair, the United States started it.On Jan. 10, the City Council in Washington changed the name of the block of Wisconsin Avenue where the Russian Embassy sits to 1 Boris Nemtsov Plaza. Mr. Nemtsov, a charismatic opposition politician and fierce Kremlin critic, was fatally shot near the Kremlin walls in February 2015.AdvertisementAlthough five Chechen men were jailed for the crime, Mr. Nemtsovs family and friends, some of whom lobbied for the street name, believe that the real mastermind has never been publicly identified. The change received a sympathetic response in Washington, especially after the Russian meddling in the 2016 American presidential election.Any change in Moscow still faces hurdles. Even if the commission recommends the name change, it will need the approval of city hall. The Kremlin is likely to have a say, and given its desire to improve relations with the United States, it might well scrap the idea.The chance that the city might consider a change, however, unleashed a tsunami of alternative suggestions and commentary on social media sites.They included a slew of streets and alleys named after foreign leaders who have clashed with the United States: the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un; Fidel Castro of Cuba; and Arab leaders whom the Russians consider to have been murdered under the auspices of the United States, like Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya and Saddam Hussein of Iraq.Colin Powells Tube was an odd street name inspired by the infamous United Nations speech the former secretary of state gave in 2003 to validate the American invasion of Iraq, in which he presented pictures of tubes in the desert that were said to be evidence of weapons of mass destruction. Hiroshima and Nagasaki were also mentioned.Like many such games, this one appears to be another wrinkle that has returned from the grave of the Cold War as diplomatic relations have suffered.In the 1980s, United States congressional leaders renamed the area in front of the Russian Embassy in Washington Sakharov Plaza, to protest the detention of Andrei D. Sakharov, the famed Russian dissident, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and nuclear physicist.AdvertisementSuch moves are not limited to Russia, either.Congress proposed renaming the street on which the Chinese Embassy sits in honor of Liu Xiaobo, the  dissident and Nobel laureate who died last year. Beijing called that effort a political farce. In 2014, Chinese commentators retaliated by suggesting renaming the street in front of the American Embassy in Beijing Snowden Street for Edward J. Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor who disclosed secret documents detailing the United States mass surveillance programs, or Osama bin Laden Road. Neither capital acted on the suggestions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Nor is the practice limited to major powers. On Monday, the mayor of Ankara, the Turkish capital, approved renaming a street outside the United States Embassy Olive Branch, after Turkeys continuing military campaign in Syria. The United States and Turkey have found themselves awkwardly on opposite sides of the fighting in Syria, because of the American militarys support for a Kurdish militia. The proposal is expected to be approved just days before Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson is expected in Ankara on Thursday.Previously, the Islamic Republic of Iran famously stripped the name of Winston Churchill from the street outside the British Embassy in Tehran and renamed it after Bobby Sands, a member of the Irish Republican Army who died in prison on hunger strike.Last year, the Iranians also named the street where the Saudi Arabian Embassy sits after Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr, a clerical leader from the Shiite Muslim minority who was executed in the kingdom.During the Vietnam War, India once changed the name of the street outside an American diplomatic mission to honor Ho Chi Minh.In Moscow, when the street in Washington was renamed for Mr. Nemtsov, the journalist Oleg Kashin suggested that it was telling that Russians would consider the Americans action a slur.The announcement about 1 North American Dead End also provoked criticism from opposition members and others who suggested that the name game was at best childish.Dmitri G. Gudkov, a former member of Parliament, noted that the city had brushed aside requests for a memorial to Mr. Nemtsov but jumped at the chance to change the street name near the American Embassy.The tribute to the memory of the Russian politician in Washington is perceived as a rebuke in Moscow, Mr. Gudkov wrote on Facebook. Our government is ashamed, and so they take revenge in a petty way.Ivan Nechepurenko contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: In Washington and Moscow, the Trolling Starts Right Outside the Embassy Gate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Mini-Vows By                     
VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

FEB. 10, 2018
Katherine Russell Boe and Samuel Douglas Heuck were married Feb. 10 at Washington National Cathedral. The Rev. Dana Colley Corsello, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, who is 26 and will be taking her husbands name, works in Shanghai, as the program manager for the Joint U.S.-China Collaboration on Clean Energy, a nongovernment organization and consultancy for sustainability in mainland China. She graduated from Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Va.She is the daughter of Elizabeth Russell Boe and Randall J. Boe, both of Washington. The brides father is the executive vice president and general counsel of Monumental Sports and Entertainment, a Washington-based company that owns and operates the Washington Capitals of the N.H.L., the Washington Wizards of the N.B.A., the Washington Mystics of the W.N.B.A., and the Verizon Center in Washington. Her mother retired as a lawyer at Arent Fox, a law firm in Washington.The groom, who is 28 and also works in Shanghai, is the general manager of Amann Group China, a German textile manufacturer. He graduated from Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio.AdvertisementHe is a son of Marylynn Uricchio Heuck and Douglas Heuck of Fox Chapel, Pa. The grooms father is the publisher and editor of Pittsburgh Quarterly and the director of Pittsburgh Today, a research institute that charts the progress of the Pittsburgh area to other regions in the country. His mother is the former film critic and society editor for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.AdvertisementMr. Heuck was the first person that Ms. Boe met in August 2013, when she arrived in Shanghai to enroll in a Chinese-language program that would begin two weeks later in Beijing. They had already been introduced earlier that month, via Facebook, by Mr. Heucks sister, Lidey Heuck, who is a friend of Ms. Boe.I remember our conversation just flowing so naturally and feeling so comfortable around him, Ms. Boe said of their first encounter, at a bar in Shanghai. We were finishing each others sentences.Mr. Heuck, who had been working in Shanghai for nine months before Ms. Boe arrived, said she was beautiful, intelligent and very funny.I had feelings for her, but I wasnt quite sure at first if she felt the same way about me, he said.They met a few more times before it was time for Ms. Boe to depart for Beijing, which had me feeling anxious, she said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I was disappointed about having to leave because it was too early to know what Sam was thinking about me, she said. I was really nervous about the whole thing.She was feeling better six weeks later when Mr. Heuck went to Beijing to see her again. They spent two days together talking and walking around the city while dropping in on bars and restaurants.I was truly inspired by Sam on so many levels, Ms. Boe said. He was successful, intelligent, kindhearted and fun to be with, he was even fluent in Chinese.AdvertisementWhen Ms. Boes Chinese language course came to an end, so did her stay in China, and now it was Mr. Heucks turn to start feeling anxious.At that point we didnt know what was going to happen between us, he said. I do know that when she wasnt there, I started looking around and wondering what I was doing there. From the moment Ms. Boe returned home to Washington, she had been wondering much of the same, but she stopped wondering in September 2014, when she landed a job in Shanghai.I was excited because I was going back to the place where I felt I had met the person I was destined to meet, she said. We have lived a very different kind of life in China filled with travel and adventure.Despite the great times abroad, Ms. Boe and Mr. Heuck, both of whom miss their family and friends, are planning on returning home soon.While we met 7,000 miles away from home and have loved our life in Asia, Mr. Heuck said, were looking forward to starting our married life back on the East Coast this spring.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page ST15 of the New York edition with the headline: Finding Her Soulmate 7,000 Miles From Home.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Bits By                     
 FARHAD MANJOO
 
FEB. 9, 2018
Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo, The Timess technology columnist, reviews the weeks news, offering analysis (and maybe a joke or two) about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Good morning! Lets talk about tech.The HomePod reviews are in, and the verdict is: Its middling!Apples smart speaker was originally due to ship last year. Now, after a delay and lots of speculation that it would face a rough go against Amazons Echo, Apples device is finally on sale.But most reviewers appraising the device this week suggested that it was best to wait. There are some interesting features in HomePod, but it has a long way to go to beat the competition.AdvertisementWhat does it do well? It sounds great. Every reviewer — among them Nilay Patel at The Verge, Joanna Stern at The Wall Street Journal and my New York Times colleague Brian X. Chen — found that HomePod beat Echo, Google Home and a comparable Sonos device in audio quality.AdvertisementWhat doesnt it do well? Pretty much everything else, reviewers said. Its expensive — $349 versus $85 for an Echo. Its locked into Apples music service, while competing systems let you play songs from a variety of sources.And most frustratingly, its not very smart. Where Amazons and Googles devices can answer a variety of questions and perform lots of different tasks (like order up an Uber or Lyft), HomePods brain, Siri, needs evolution. Brian was particularly upset that the device kept playing music he didnt like. And for Nilay, the biggest complaint was that HomePod couldnt set two timers at once — basically table stakes in the smart speaker game.None of these are fatal. Siri is a cloud-based service, which means Apple can keep improving it from afar. Echo, too, wasnt so great to begin with. So I wouldnt count Apple out. The smart assistant war has barely started.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Travis Kalanick took the stand, drank a whole lot of water, offered his thoughts on greed and Google, and introduced the world to the crazy lexicon of tech bros: unpumped, angsty and, most mysteriously of all, laser is the sauce.These are the highlights from Waymos big trade-secrets lawsuit against Uber, which, after months of legal maneuvering, finally hit a San Francisco courtroom this week. Kalanick, Ubers co-founder and ousted C.E.O., was the first high-profile witness to take the stand.At the heart of the case is one question: Did Uber steal trade secrets from Waymo, Googles self-driving car spin-off, when it purchased Otto, a self-driving company founded by former employees of Waymo?The trial is expected to go on for weeks, but early on, Waymo seemed to score some wins. Kalanick conceded that during a jam sesh with Anthony Levandowski, the former Waymo engineer alleged to have stolen its secrets, he discussed the key technology at issue in the case, laser sensors. Thats apparently when Kalanick jotted a note that included his conclusion that laser is the sauce — it suggested Levandowski had convinced Kalanick of the importance of Waymos tech.AdvertisementIm sure Ubers lawyers were unpumped about that.Heres something noteworthy from social media land. Snap and Twitter have long appeared at a disadvantage to the 800-pound social media gorilla, Facebook, and the smaller companies financial results often proved it.But this week — surprise! — Snap reported robust revenue and user growth, and Twitter posted its first quarterly profit as a public company.Elon Musk, the billionaire founder of SpaceX and Tesla, launched a huge rocket into space! Not only that, but he also put a cherry red Tesla in it, and a mannequin wearing a space suit inside the Tesla. The whole thing will orbit the sun.Theres some serious stuff here. This is the biggest rocket ever launched by a private company, and it paves the way for an even-larger rocket planned by Musk, called B.F.R., which could help realize Musks dream of colonizing Mars. (As my colleague Kenneth Chang explained in this family-friendly newspaper about B.F.R.: The B stands for big; the R for rocket.)But lets forget the serious stuff for a second. Look at the video of the Teslas flight. What a world!Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. You can follow him on Twitter here: @fmanjoo.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and ISABEL KERSHNERFEB. 13, 2018
JERUSALEM — The Israeli police recommended on Tuesday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust, casting a pall over the future of a tenacious leader who has become almost synonymous with his country. The announcement instantly raised doubts about his ability to stay in office.Concluding a yearlong graft investigation, the police recommended that Mr. Netanyahu face prosecution in two corruption cases: a gifts-for-favors affair known as Case 1000, and a second scandal, called Case 2000, in which Mr. Netanyahu is suspected of back-room dealings with Arnon Mozes, publisher of the popular newspaper Yediot Aharonot, to ensure more favorable coverage.All told, the police accused Mr. Netanyahu of accepting nearly $300,000 in gifts over 10 years.Mr. Netanyahu, addressing the nation live on television shortly before the police released their findings around 9 p.m., made clear that he would not step down. I feel a deep obligation to continue to lead Israel in a way that will ensure our future, he said, before embarking on a 12-minute defense of his conduct.You know I do everything with only one thing in mind — the good of the country, he said. Not for cigars from a friend, not for media coverage, not for anything. Only for the good of the state. Nothing has made me deviate, or will make me deviate, from this sacred mission.AdvertisementThe police recommendations must now be examined by state prosecutors and the attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, a former military prosecutor and onetime Netanyahu aide.AdvertisementThe final decision about whether to file formal charges lies with Mr. Mandelblit and is subject to a hearing beforehand with Mr. Netanyahus lawyers. Reaching that threshold alone could easily take months.According to the police, expensive cigars, jewelry and pink champagne flowed into the prime ministers official Jerusalem residence in quantities sufficient to stock a small cocktail lounge. The generous patrons included Arnon Milchan, the Israeli movie producer, and James Packer, an Australian billionaire.But it is the favors Mr. Netanyahu may have given his wealthy friends in return that could herald his downfall. A formal bribery charge would be by far the most serious outcome, and the most ominous for his political survival.Mr. Netanyahu, who has emerged as one of President Trumps most ardent allies, is serving his third consecutive term since his election in 2009, and his fourth overall since the 1990s. If he were to remain in the post through July 2019, it would set a record for total time in office, surpassing that of the states founder, David Ben-Gurion.Mr. Netanyahu has vehemently denied any wrongdoing and has vowed to fight on, saying that no police recommendation would prompt his resignation.His longevity attests to his political agility and to his perfection of a campaigning and governing style in which he casts his political foes and critics as enemies of the broader body politic. Though he has formed previous governing coalitions with those to his left, his current government is often described as the most right-wing and religious in Israels history. And he has presided over an increasingly bitter relationship with the Palestinians in the territories Israel has occupied for more than a half-century, whose hopes of soon gaining a state of their own have dwindled as Israeli settlements expand.But while Mr. Netanyahu has prepared the public for this moment for months, and made strenuous efforts to discredit those investigating him, he has not prepared Israel or his government for the possibility that he may be unable to continue to lead. He has designated no successor, and no single member of his own coalition has emerged as ready to step into his shoes. Meanwhile, a centrist opposition, led by Yair Lapid of the Yesh Atid party, has been gaining strength.In a twist straight out of a political thriller, a key witness against Mr. Netanyahu, according to Israeli news reports Tuesday night, turned out to be Mr. Lapid himself, who had been Mr. Netanyahus finance minister in a previous coalition.AdvertisementAccording to a police statement about their recommendations, Mr. Netanyahu promoted the extension of a 10-year tax exemption to expatriate Israelis returning to the country, a benefit that has great economic value for Milchan, who has long worked in Hollywood. But the Finance Ministry blocked this legislation, saying it was against the national interest and fiscally unsound.The Israeli law enforcement authorities have handled the cases with great caution, wary of the possibility of bringing down a prime minister who might then be proved not guilty in court, not least with Israel facing increasing security threats on its northern and southern frontiers.But Israels constant state of alert has led some critics to argue all the more that a prime minister so focused on fighting his own legal battles cannot be entrusted with fateful decisions of peace and war.Opposition politicians pounced Tuesday night, demanding that Mr. Netanyahu step down, be ousted by his coalition or at least declare himself incapacitated, as former Prime Minister Ehud Barak urged on Twitter, calling the police findings hair-raising.Most of you are honest people, Stav Shaffir, of the left-leaning Zionist Union party, wrote on Twitter, addressing Mr. Netanyahus coalition. If you have a drop of concern for the future, fulfill your obligation. Free Israel from this madness.But some coalition members denounced both the investigation and Mr. Lapids role in it. In a democracy, a regime is changed in an election and not through the army or police, the coalitions chairman, Dudi Amsalem, told Walla News.And Finance Minister Moshe Kahlon, whose center-right Kulanu party holds 10 seats in Parliament, giving it the power to sink Mr. Netanyahus government, signaled just before midnight that he was not prepared to leave the coalition, saying on Facebook that he would wait for the attorney generals decision on whether to indict Mr. Netanyahu.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Projecting aplomb, Mr. Netanyahu announced that he would attend a conference of local authorities in Tel Aviv on Wednesday morning.AdvertisementMr. Netanyahu long ago earned the nickname the Magician for his uncanny knack for political endurance, and even his most ardent opponents have been hesitant to write him off.At what point he might be legally required to step down, short of a final conviction, is likely to be a matter of increasingly heated debate, though public opinion and political pressure could in the end play a decisive role.Israels Supreme Court has ruled in the past that government ministers or deputy ministers, once indicted, may not remain in their posts. Whether that principle should also apply to the elected prime minister is an open question.Mr. Netanyahu would be something of a test case as Israels first sitting prime minister to be formally charged.His predecessor, Ehud Olmert, announced his resignation in September 2008, a week after the police recommended that he be charged with bribery, breach of trust, money laundering and fraudulent receipt of goods. That case involved an American businessman and a travel-expense scandal from Mr. Olmerts days as mayor of Jerusalem and minister of industry and trade.Mr. Olmert was eventually convicted in various cases and served 19 months of a 27-month prison sentence. He was released last year.Pre-empting the police recommendations, Mr. Netanyahu told the public to expect them and did his best to minimize their importance.Any fair-minded person will ask themselves how people who say such delusional things about the prime minister can investigate him objectively and make recommendations in his case without bias, he wrote on a Facebook post last week, accusing the police commissioner, Roni Alsheich, of having an agenda.AdvertisementIn December, Mr. Netanyahu told a gathering of his right-wing Likud Party supporters: The vast majority of police recommendations end in nothing. Over 60 percent of the police recommendations are thrown in the trash. Over 60 percent of the police recommendations dont get to an indictment.Experts have disputed those figures, however, and the prime ministers opponents have begun quoting from an interview he gave in 2008, at the height of Mr. Olmerts legal troubles, to turn the tables on Mr. Netanyahu.Describing Mr. Olmert as up to his neck in investigations, Mr. Netanyahu said of his political rival at the time: He does not have a public or moral mandate to determine such fateful matters for the state of Israel when there is the fear, and I have to say it is real and not without basis, that he will make decisions based on his personal interest in political survival and not based on the national interest.In some ways, though, Mr. Netanyahu has been here before.During his first term in office, in the late 1990s, the police recommended that he be charged with fraud and breach of trust in a complicated case in which Mr. Netanyahu was suspected of acting to appoint an attorney general who would be sympathetic to a minister under investigation for corruption, in return for that ministers political support. Ultimately, the attorney general closed that case, citing a lack of evidence.Again, in March 2000, once Mr. Netanyahu was out of office, the police recommended that he be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust in a case involving his holding on to $100,000 in gifts that were state property and having the state pay for private work on his home. Months later, the attorney general also ordered that case closed.This time around, the police recruited a states witness, Ari Harow, Mr. Netanyahus former chief of staff and once one of his closest confidants.The police have also been making headway in other criminal investigations in which Mr. Netanyahu has not been named as a subject, but that involve associates from his most inner circle. His wife already faces criminal charges of sneaking $100,000 in catered meals into the prime ministers residence.But a potentially far more explosive scandal, called Case 3000, involves a $2 billion deal for the purchase of submarines and missile ships from a German supplier. Critics have described that episode as perhaps the biggest corruption case in Israeli history, touching on deep conflicts of interest and national security.Among those caught up in the shipping investigation are David Shimron, Mr. Netanyahus personal lawyer and second cousin, and Yitzhak Molcho, Mr. Netanyahus lifelong friend and close adviser, whom he has sent on his most delicate diplomatic missions since the 1990s. Mr. Molcho and Mr. Shimron are partners in a law firm as well as brothers-in-law.AdvertisementAnother possible case may be brewing over suspicions of the exchange of benefits in return for favorable media coverage between Mr. Netanyahu and a close friend who owns Bezeq, Israels telecommunications giant.Follow David M. Halbfinger and Isabel Kershner: @halbfinger and @IKershner.Irit Pazner Garshowitz and Myra Noveck contributed research.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Corruption Charges Suggested for Israeli Leader.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Sunday Routine By                     
LIRIEL HIGA

FEB. 9, 2018
After years of competing and touring, Sasha Cohen, the 2006 Olympic silver medalist in figure skating, rarely sets foot in the rink. But shes watching the Olympics in Pyeongchang with great interest, as she is scheduled to spend a week in South Korea representing the U.S. Olympic Committee later this month. Ms. Cohen graduated from Columbia University in 2016, and currently works for Morgan Stanley as a disruptive change analyst. She has also been contributing to The Weight of Gold, a documentary currently in production about the struggle Olympians face as they transition to the real world. In addition, she is interviewing individuals who are reinventing themselves for an upcoming podcast. Ms. Cohen, 33, recently moved to NoHo, where she lives alone.LUXURIATING IN SLEEP (AND LAUNDRY) Depending on how late my Saturday was, I wake up around 9 or 10. I love to get my sleep. I have an espresso machine at home and Ill make an almond milk cappuccino. Then Ill throw a load of laundry in the machine.FISHY BUSINESS As part of a research project at work, I bought an aquaponic tank with a betta fish that fertilizes the herbs that grow on top. I have to feed it once a day, which is making me nervous because Im about to go on a long trip. You know shoplifting? Im thinking of droplifting it at the pet store. I dont want a dead fish on my conscience.SKY AND WATER Even if theres snow on the ground Ill go on a run — about three miles or so. To me its such amazing therapy to see sky and water. Ill run to the West Side Highway, do yoga and stretch on the piers, and maybe end with a meditation session. Im not a person that can be cold. Ill wear two pairs of pants — leggings and sweatpants — and a T-shirt, a heat thermal, a cashmere turtleneck, a fleece zip up, maybe a windbreaker, gloves and a full on hat.AdvertisementJUST SAY NO Ill go home after I run, take a shower, listen to a podcast, and make a pot of tea. Im on a complete Tim Ferriss kick right now. I appreciate The 4-Hour Workweek, but hes so much more than that. I have huge admiration for the life he set up and the questions he asks. How do you learn to say no? Im trying to say no to things, Im trying to transition.SLOW DOWN Ill grab a book and take it to Honeybrains, which is my new neighborhood spot. Their curry cauliflower bowl is one of my favorites. Ive been into stoicism. Its so relevant especially in todays society about cutting out noise and understanding how valuable your time is. Men guard money and property with their life but theyre so free with their time, and time is the one thing you cant replace.AdvertisementSWIPES Maybe I spend 15 minutes on Facebook and Instagram combined. Its unfortunate that we communicate much more through screens and apps then with people in person or giving them a call. I think Im nostalgic for earlier days.WANDER My Sundays are always a little different but I have a little more time. I allow myself wandering time. Bookstores and pet stores are my happy place. Thats actually how I got my last puppy. I walked in, saw the most adorable puppy and knew I needed to take her home.MOM TIME I talk to my mom every other day. In my family, we always call each other when were walking somewhere. I have a very close relationship with my mom. She spent every day with me and training from a very young age.ART FIX Recently I met a friend and went to the Guggenheim and to the Jewish Museum to see the Modigliani exhibit. Or I went with a friend to the space exhibit at the Natural History Museum. But mostly its downtown.DINNER OUT I love grabbing a drink from Saxon & Parole or the Bowery Hotel. Blue Ribbon Sushi is another staple — I always get the spicy scallop roll and seaweed salad. Ill bring a book, or meet up with a friend. I really enjoy catching up with Evan Lysacek. Weve gone through so many life phases together, from competing to touring to building a life in New York City.SASHAS LIST I go to bed around 11, although I should get to sleep earlier. I tend to get wound up at night. I usually have a lot on my mind, so I find its very helpful to write down my to-do list and my thoughts before I got to bed.Sunday Routine readers can follow Sasha Cohen on Twitter or Instagram @SashaCohenNYC.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page MB2 of the New York edition with the headline: Former Olympian Embraces a Slower Pace.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsBy Henry J. Farrell and Rick PerlsteinImagine it is the spring of 2019. A bottom-feeding website, perhaps tied to Russia, surfaces video of a sex scene starring an 18-year-old Kirsten Gillibrand. It is soon debunked as a fake, the product of a user-friendly video application that employs generative adversarial network technology to convincingly swap out one face for another.It is the summer of 2019, and the story, predictably, has stuck around — part talk-show joke, part right-wing talking point. Its news, political journalists say in their own defense. People are talking about it. How can we not?Then it is fall. The junior senator from New York State announces her campaign for the presidency. At a diner in New Hampshire, one low information voter asks another: Kirsten Whats-her-name? Shes running for president? Didnt she have something to do with pornography?Welcome to the shape of things to come. In 2016 Gareth Edwards, the director of the Star Wars film Rogue One, was able to create a scene featuring a young Princess Leia by manipulating images of Carrie Fisher as she looked in 1977. Mr. Edwards had the best hardware and software a $200 million Hollywood budget could buy. Less than two years later, images of similar quality can be created with software available for free download on Reddit. That was how a faked video supposedly of the actress Emma Watson in a shower with another woman ended up on the website Celeb Jihad.Programs like these have many legitimate applications. They can help computer-security experts probe for weaknesses in their defenses and help self-driving cars learn how to navigate unusual weather conditions. But as the novelist William Gibson once said, The street finds its own uses for things. So do rogue political actors. The implications for democracy are eye-opening.The conservative political activist James OKeefe has created a cottage industry manipulating political perceptions by editing footage in misleading ways. In 2018, low-tech editing like Mr. OKeefes is already an anachronism: Imagine what even less scrupulous activists could do with the power to create video framing real people for things theyve never actually done. One harrowing potential eventuality: Fake video and audio may become so convincing that it cant be distinguished from real recordings, rendering audio and video evidence inadmissible in court.A program called Face2Face, developed at Stanford, films one person speaking, then manipulates that persons image to resemble someone elses. Throw in voice manipulation technology, and you can literally make anyone say anything — or at least seem to.The technology isnt quite there; Princess Leia was a little wooden, if you looked carefully. But its closer than you might think. And even when fake video isnt perfect, it can convince people who want to be convinced, especially when it reinforces offensive gender or racial stereotypes.Another harrowing potential is the ability to trick the algorithms behind self-driving cars to not recognize traffic signs. Computer scientists have shown that nearly invisible changes to a stop sign can fool algorithms into thinking it says yield instead. Imagine if one of these cars contained a dissident challenging a dictator.In 2007, Barack Obamas political opponents insisted that footage existed of Michelle Obama ranting against whitey. In the future, they may not have to worry about whether it actually existed. If someone called their bluff, they may simply be able to invent it, using data from stock photos and pre-existing footage.The next step would be one we are already familiar with: the exploitation of the algorithms used by social media sites like Twitter and Facebook to spread stories virally to those most inclined to show interest in them, even if those stories are fake.It might be impossible to stop the advance of this kind of technology. But the relevant algorithms here arent only the ones that run on computer hardware. They are also the ones that undergird our too easily hacked media system, where garbage acquires the perfumed scent of legitimacy with all too much ease. Editors, journalists and news producers can play a role here — for good or for bad.Outlets like Fox News spread stories about the murder of Democratic staff members and F.B.I. conspiracies to frame the president. Traditional news organizations, fearing that they might be left behind in the new attention economy, struggle to maximize engagement with content.This gives them a built-in incentive to spread informational viruses that enfeeble the very democratic institutions that allow a free media to thrive. Cable news shows consider it their professional duty to provide balance by giving partisan talking heads free rein to spout nonsense — or amplify the nonsense of our current president.It already feels as though we are living in an alternative science-fiction universe where no one agrees on what it true. Just think how much worse it will be when fake news becomes fake video. Democracy assumes that its citizens share the same reality. Were about to find out whether democracy can be preserved when this assumption no longer holds.Henry J. Farrell is a professor of political science and international affairs at the George Washington University. Rick Perlstein is the author, most recently, of The Invisible Bridge: The Fall of Nixon and the Rise of Reagan.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementBy PATRICIA COHENJAN. 26, 2018
The American economy finished off last year on a firm footing, and is poised for more vigorous growth in the months to come.JAN. 26, 2018
Preliminary estimates released by the government on Friday showed that the nations output increased at an annual rate of 2.6 percent in the final quarter of 2017. Although that performance amounts to less than the heady 4 percent annual growth that President Trump has promised, it is further evidence — along with a sinking jobless rate and surging consumer confidence — of the economys resilience.The year-end is solid, said Joel Prakken, chief United States economist at Macroeconomic Advisers by IHS Markit. Details within the report, about climbing business investment and depleted inventories, suggest more economic strength than the bare-bones headline number might indicate. It portends well for 2018 demand, he said.In the year ahead, hefty tax cuts, particularly for businesses, are expected to encourage more investment and spending, although many economists predict ballooning deficits will overtake the positive effects in the longer term. One-time quirks that could affect growth measurements this year could also end up artificially pumping 2018s figures.AdvertisementEven analysts with ambitious forecasts for the next year, however, agree that the United States is unlikely to sustain annual growth of much more than 2 percent given a smaller, aging work force; sluggish productivity growth; and soaring deficits.AdvertisementThe economys sustainable trend is around 2 percent, Mr. Prakken said.The Commerce Departments report on the gross domestic product — which showed growth for all of last year at 2.3 percent — is a rough draft. The fourth-quarter estimate will be revised twice in the next couple of months, and it could increase or drop by as much as a percentage point, based on previous recalculations. After all, government statisticians have to put together the fourth-quarter estimate without complete data on construction, trade and inventories.Mr. Trump inherited an improving economy, and during his first year in office, the trend continued and growth accelerated. Supporters credit Mr. Trump with revving up business and consumer confidence, and say tax cuts and eased regulation are fueling capital investment and job creation. They also point to a booming stock market, though market gains are not necessarily a gauge of economic underpinnings.The president ticked off those items on Friday when he hailed Americas economic strength at the World Economic Forums annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, where global leaders have been sharing encouraging economic news all week.The American economy recovered from a plodding start in the first three months of 2017, when sharp cuts in consumer spending limited G.D.P. growth to 1.2 percent on an annualized basis. It sprang back over the next six months, with the rate reaching 3.1 percent in the second quarter and 3.2 percent in the third.In the fourth quarter, holiday shoppers were enthusiastic, and spending on business and residential housing was up. A persistent appetite for foreign goods continued to widen the trade deficit — it reached nearly $72 billion for goods alone in December — and dragged down gains. But inventory declines that detracted from G.D.P. last quarter should rebound over the next as businesses refill empty shelves.The American economys performance has also been buoyed by simultaneous growth in nations around the world, which has fueled trade and enabled foreign consumers to buy more American-made products.For several years after the recession, the United States steady if unremarkable growth was a bright spot compared with struggling economies abroad. Under President Barack Obama, who took office when the economy was floundering, yearly growth averaged 2.1 percent during the recovery. After a high of 2.9 percent in 2015, it dropped to 1.5 percent in 2016.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But in 2017, more than eight years into the nations recovery, the expansion spread to at least 120 countries, according to a report released this week by the International Monetary Fund. In several, growth rates outpaced that of the United States. Among large economies in the Group of 7, the United States ranked fifth, according to a report from the World Economic Forum. On a list of 29 advanced economies, it ranked 10th, though it sank close to the bottom in terms of equitably sharing the gains.AdvertisementExhilarating stock market gains have also been a worldwide phenomenon. Lawrence H. Summers, the Harvard economist and former Treasury secretary, pointed out that the major stock indexes in Japan, Hong Kong, Germany and South Korea registered gains comparable to the Standard & Poors 500-stock index, if not better.The U.S. performance doesnt stand out relative to the rest of the world, he said.The I.M.F. warned against assuming that the current economic cycle would go on indefinitely, however, particularly given the towering debt of the United States and other countries. By borrowing so much, the government can crowd out other investors and drive up interest rates. At the same time, giant deficits crank up pressure to cut government spending on health care and housing, policing and schools. With less money to go around, spending dries up and consumer demand — the economys primary engine — slows.Political leaders and policymakers must stay mindful that the current economic momentum reflects a confluence of factors that is unlikely to last for long, said Maurice Obstfeld, the I.M.F.s chief economist.Despite all the attention that the growth statistics engender, economists warn against reading too much into G.D.P. figures. In recent years, more and more experts have noted the increasing difficulty in measuring a knowledge-based economy where services like Facebook and Google are free and innovations and improvements often lack an accurate price tag.An additional, unexpected flaw in recent United States data may come more sharply into focus this year. G.D.P. figures may have been artificially lowered over the last decade because of tax policies that encouraged domestic-based multinationals to shift billions of dollars in domestic profits overseas.After Ireland became a tax haven, its growth rate suddenly rocketed to more than 25 percent in 2015. At least a portion of what was counted, however, had been generated in the United States and should have been counted toward American growth, said Alan J. Auerbach, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. A significant chunk of the United States trade gap has been caused by companies overstating imports from their foreign subsidiaries and underreporting exports, Mr. Auerbach said.One analysis estimated that such accounting methods subtracted $280 billion from the tally of the nations output in 2012. The new tax law reworks many of those international provisions. Those changes should somewhat temper the incentives to book money offshore, said Fatih Guvenen, one of the authors of the analysis, but still doesnt eliminate them.The tax-code changes could muddy attempts to measure growth in 2018, and possibly 2019, though. If enough companies stop disguising significant domestic profits as foreign, G.D.P. in the United States would suddenly expand — without any underlying change in output.Over the next couple of years, I think there will be a one-time jump in the level of G.D.P. because the profits that Apple, Google, Facebook and others attributed to an offshore tax haven affiliate will now appear in their U.S. accounts, said Mr. Guvenen, an economics professor at the University of Minnesota.AdvertisementIf it happens at a larger scale, it will give the appearance of faster G.D.P. growth, he said.An earlier version of this article understated the size of the American economy. Its annual output is more than $19 trillion, not $17 trillion. The article also misstated the year-over-year growth in the gross domestic product in 2015. It was 2.9 percent, not 2.6 percent. And because of an editing error, an outdated estimate was cited for last years first-quarter growth. The Commerce Department says the annualized rate was 1.2 percent, not 1.4 percent.Follow Patricia Cohen on Twitter: @PatcohenNYT.A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: 2.6% Growth  Last Quarter  Signals Vigor In Economy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 9, 2018
Good Friday. Heres what were watching:• Stocks posted their worst week in two years.• Waymo and Uber settled their legal fight.• Congress passes a budget deal, but shows it doesnt care about deficits.• How will the market rout impact the Federal Reserves March decision?• Amazon is reportedly preparing its own delivery service.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.Stocks on Wall Street ping-ponged between gains and losses as volatility ruled the day.The Standard & Poors 500-stock index and Dow Jones industrial average started Friday higher, then plummeted, then swung back to finish higher.AdvertisementThe Dow climbed 332 points, or 1.4 percent, to 24192. The S.&P. 500 jumped 1.5 percent, and the Nasdaq Composite gained 1.4 percent.AdvertisementFor the week, the S.&P. 500 and the Dow tumbled 5.2 percent, their steepest weekly declines since January 2016.At its lows on Friday, the Dow had given back nearly 40 percent of its gains since election day in 2016 and more than 45 percent of the gains since President Trump was inaugurated.How volatile were stocks this week?The Dow moved more than 1,000 points between its intraday high and low on Friday. For the week, the Dow swung at least 500 points from its session high to its low on five consecutive trading days—something that last happened in October 2008, points out the WSJs Akane Otani.Bloomberg reports that a gauge on S.&P. 500 price moves had its biggest swing over the past two weeks on record. Of the move, Cameron Crise, a macro strategist at Bloomberg, said:The journey from ecstasy to agony is entirely unprecedented, in the United States at least. Thats the largest momentum swing in history — and its not particularly close.The C.B.O.E Volatility Index, known as the markets so-called fear gauge, moved from contango to backwardation. What does that mean? Heres an explanation.The bigger pictureThe cause of one of the most turbulent weeks in recent memory appeared to be widespread expectations that the global economy is improving and that growth would accelerate in the near future.That has led to fears that interest rate increases could cheapen the value of certain kinds of investments.More on the markets and economy• Steep sell-offs in the stock market can be the result of superficial worries that soon pass. But sometimes, falling stock prices reflect concerns about deeper problems. After a years-long borrowing binge, cracks may start to appear in the credit markets. Peter Eavis takes a look at where the big debt loads are and asks if they are sustainable.AdvertisementNearly 70 percent of S.&P. 500 companies have reported results so far, and profits are on pace to grow 14 percent, according to FactSet. Analysts expected earnings to rise 11 percent at the end of the fourth quarter.• If that growth rate holds up, it would mark the third quarter of double-digit earnings growth in the past four.• All 11 of the S.&P. 500s sectors are reporting higher profits, and five sectors have reported double-digit gains.• 74 percent of companies are announcing earnings above Wall Street estimates.• 79 percent are reporting sales above forecasts.• S.&P. 500 companies that generate more than 50 percent of their sales abroad are on pace to report a 17.4 percent increase in their bottom lines. For those that get the majority of their revenue from within the United States, earnings are set to rise 12 percent.Nearly a year after Waymo first accused the ride-hailing company of plotting to steal important self-driving car technology, the two companies have settled their courtroom fight.After four days of arguments in Federal District Court here, Uber agreed to provide Waymo with 0.34 percent of its stock. Uber is now valued at about $72 billion, which works out to about $240 million, according to Waymo.Waymo, the self-driving car unit spun out of Googles parent company, Alphabet, argued that Uber had colluded with a former Google engineer to steal technology related to laser-based sensors, a key component in self-driving cars. Uber said it had developed its technology on its own.One of the shortest shutdowns in U.S. government history is over, and Congress has reached a budget deal. The price is hundreds of billions in new spending.AdvertisementRand Paul, who temporarily halted the Senates vote on the deal, said this:I want people to feel uncomfortable. I want them to have to answer people at home who said, How come you were against President Obamas deficits and then how come youre for Republican deficits? Conservative House Republicans like the Freedom Caucus opposed the bill on similar grounds.The critical take on deficit spending, from the lead editorial of this weeks Economist:Democrats are to get more funds for child care and other goodies; hawks in both parties have won more money for the defense budget. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, still wants his border wall and an infrastructure plan. The mood of fiscal insouciance in Washington, D.C., is troubling.Whats in the billThe NYT has a rundown of some hard-to-spot items in the bill, including:• The killing of the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which was meant to cap Medicare spending• The extension of tax breaks for renewable and nuclear energy and a tax credit for carbon dioxide capture• Special tax rates for timber salesThe immigration issueNancy Pelosi both praised the budget deal and said that she wouldnt vote for it because it didnt protect Dreamers. Some Democrats called on her to force her colleagues to block the deal, but others pointed to its funding for domestic programs.The S.&P. 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average both fell into correction territory on Thursday. Fed officials, though, have remained upbeat on their outlook for the United States economy and sanguine about the markets tumble.This week Robert Kaplan, the head of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said:I think its healthy that there is some correction, a little more volatility in markets…can be a healthy thing.William Dudley, the New York Fed President, said:If the stock market were to go down precipitously and stay down, then that would actually feed into the economic outlook, and that would affect my view in terms of the implications for monetary policy.But expectations for a March rate increase have begun to come down, reported Chelsey Dulaney of MoneyBeat. Traders are betting there is a 72 percent chance that the Fed will raise rates at its March meeting, down from 79 percent a week ago, according to CME Group data. For the year, investors now see only a 17.5 percent chance of four rate increases this year, compared to 24 percent a week ago, Ms. Dulaney wrote.The big question remains: Is the underlying economy holding up? So far, probably yes.More in markets• The LJM Preservation and Growth Fund, an options mutual fund, essentially collapsed amid the turmoil. (FT)• Most Americans have limited exposure to the stock market. (NYT)Shares in the two big names in package delivery were down in premarket trading today. Why?AdvertisementFrom Laura Stevens of the WSJ:Amazon.com preparing to launch a delivery service for businesses, positioning it to directly compete with United Parcel Service Inc. and FedEx Corp.Dubbed Shipping with Amazon, or SWA, the new service will entail the tech giant picking up packages from businesses and shipping them to consumers, according to people familiar with the matter.Amazon expects to roll out the new delivery service in Los Angeles in coming weeks with third-party merchants that sell goods via its website, according to the people. Amazon then aims to expand the service to more cities as soon as this year, some of the people say.Where else have investors felt fear about what Amazon might do to an industry?• Healthcare• Groceries• Media• And retail, of course— Michael de la Merced• White House officials knew as early as last fall that Rob Porter, the former White House staff secretary, faced domestic abuse allegations. The scandal has cast unflattering light on Mr. Porters boss, John Kelly. And some White House officials say it was all orchestrated by the former Trump aide Corey Lewandowski.• Rand Paul is opposing the nomination of Marvin Goodfriend to the Fed, endangering the economists chances. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump formally nominated Charles Rettig, a tax lawyer who fought the I.R.S., as its next leader. (NYT)• CVS is raising its base hourly pay rate and improving employees health benefits because of the tax overhaul. (It also happens to be trying to buy Aetna for $69 billion.) (Axios)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Penn Station and Newark Liberty International Airport are good examples of why the U.S. needs to upgrade its infrastructure, Jim Stewart writes. (NYT)Qualcomm rejected Broadcoms revised $121 billion bid, saying it was an undervaluation and didnt offer enough commitment if regulators pushed back. But it opened the door to negotiations.Broadcoms C.E.O., Hock Tan, responded by asking to meet this weekend.But theres still a lot they disagree on:• Qualcomm wants more than $82 a share. Broadcom says its bid is best and final.Advertisement• Qualcomm says it needs a firmer commitment to completing a deal, even if antitrust regulators object. Broadcom has offered an $8 billion breakup fee in that case, as well as a 6 percent ticking fee if the deal takes more than 12 months to close.What one shareholder wants: Steven Ré of Fairbanks Capital Management told the WSJ, In a peaceful deal, they can probably talk Hock Tan up another $5, maybe $7.Also remember: Qualcomms shareholder meeting is scheduled for March 6. Broadcom is looking to unseat the entire board.• LOréal says that its ready to buy out Nestlés 23 percent stake in it and hinted that it would sell its own stake in Sanofi, if necessary. (FT)• Walmart is willing to invest up to $4 billion in Flipkart, valuing the Indian ecommerce giant at as much as $20 billion, an unnamed source says. (Bloomberg)• Is Boeing in talks to buy Woodward, an airplane parts maker? Woodward says no, but unnamed sources told the WSJ yes. (WSJ)• Starboard Value will seek to unseat the entire board of Newell Brands, unnamed sources said. (WSJ)• Bayer has offered to sell its vegetable seeds business to win German regulatory approval for its $63.5 billion takeover of Monsanto. (Reuters)Advertisement• Alibabas Ant Financial is preparing to raise up to $5 billion at a $100 billion valuation, unnamed sources say. (Reuters)• HNA, the troubled Chinese conglomerate, is selling $4 billion worth of U.S. office buildings to raise money. (Bloomberg)• Shandong Ruyi Group of China bought control of the Swiss accessories company Bally from JAB Holding. (WSJ)• Tilray, a medical marijuana producer and distributor, has raised 60 million Canadian dollars. (Tilray)Follow the NYTs coverage of the games at Pyeonchang.Behind the scenes, the games reflect cozy ties between South Koreas government and Samsung — ones that continue to attract criticism.More from Raymond Zhong and Park Jeong-eun of the NYT:The companys chairman, Lee Kun-hee, is a longtime member of the International Olympic Committee and lobbied for years behind the scenes to bring the Winter Games to South Korea. The government saw Mr. Lee as so pivotal to its Olympic dreams that after he was convicted of tax evasion in 2008, the countrys president then pardoned him expressly so he could resume lobbying for Pyeongchang.And from Timothy Martin of the WSJ:So extraordinary is the overlap between Samsung, South Korea and the Pyeongchang Games it is unlikely to be repeated, say IOC members and Olympics experts. Mr. Lees lobbying and Samsungs close involvement are now considered inappropriate by some Olympics experts and voters.After Snap and Twitter reported earnings this week, the view now seems to be that there is space for the two firms to make good money, even in the shadow of Facebook and Google, Peter Eavis writes:Bright spots: Snaps strong user growth, up 18 percent in the fourth quarter, is a sign that it remains a draw to younger users. And while Twitters U.S. user growth and advertising revenue were unimpressive in the fourth quarter, both looked solid in the rest of the world.Breathing room: The fourth-quarter results bought both companies more time to prove themselves. And the financial pressure has lessened at Twitter. It is now churning out roughly half a billion dollars a year in cash flow.But it will be a slog: The fourth quarter is generally a bumper period for companies that rely on digital advertising, so the next couple of quarters could feel like a let down for Snap and Twitter. And if they disappoint, their stocks — far more highly valued than Facebook — could plunge.AdvertisementThe tech flyaround• Eleven British lawmakers testily questioned executives from Google, Facebook and Twitter about fake news during recent elections. (WaPo)• Indias competition regulator fined Google $21 million for abusing its market position. (BBC)• Facebook is testing a downvote button. (TechCrunch)• Didi and SoftBank are teaming up for ride-hailing services in Japan, giving Uber another headache. (WSJ)Its down to about $8,251 this morning, according to CoinMarketCap. Meanwhile, investors are more willing to bet against the virtual currency.• Elite U.S. universities are rushing to offer classes about Bitcoin and blockchain. (NYT)• Traders keep their skills sharp by trading digital money. (FT)• The European Central Bank will create its own settlement system. One board member boasted that its better than blockchain. (Bloomberg)• Neal Wolin, a deputy Treasury secretary under the Obama administration, is the new C.E.O. of Brunswick Group. (DealBook)• Dennis Berman, the WSJs financial editor, is joining Lazards activist defense practice. (Lazard)Advertisement• SandRidge Energy replaced its C.E.O. and C.F.O. under pressure from Carl Icahn. Bill Griffin will be interim C.E.O. and Mike Johnson interim C.F.O. (Bloomberg)• The Trump administration has published data showing a large increase in penalties against polluters, as well as $20 billion in commitments from companies to correct problems that have cause environmental damage. (NYT)• The Addiction Policy Forums acceptance of money from the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America has raised questions about whether it can really hold the drug industry to account over the opioid crisis. (NYT)• Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has been on tour and enjoying it. (NYT)• The cola wars may be turning into fizzy water wars. (NYT)• David Wallerstein, Tencents chief exploration officer, has been helping the company make moonshot investments that could lead to big payoffs. (WSJ)• Carson Block said that Muddy Waters was behind a 2015 report about a Chinese billionaire and an aluminum cache in Mexico, which helped spawn federal investigations (WSJ)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAISUKE WAKABAYASHIFEB. 6, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Basketball players have pickup games. Rappers have freestyle cyphers. Tech entrepreneurs, according to the former chief executive of Uber, riff on big ideas in something they call a jam sesh.Travis Kalanick, the former chief executive of Uber, who is known for pushing boundaries in business, kept his answers short and his demeanor neutral as he testified on Tuesday in a high-profile court fight between Waymo and his former employer over intellectual property.Waymo, the self-driving-car unit of Googles parent company, Alphabet, called Mr. Kalanick to the stand during the first full day of testimony in the federal trial. It hoped to reveal how Ubers win-at-all-costs attitude had pushed the company to acquire Otto, an autonomous-vehicle start-up created by a former Google engineer, Anthony Levandowski.Waymo contends — and Uber denies — that the deal was part of Ubers plan to steal intellectual property from Googles self-driving-car project, which would later be renamed Waymo, in order to close the gap in an area of technology essential to its business.AdvertisementAs he waded through questions from Waymos lawyers, Mr. Kalanick, who resigned in June as Ubers chief executive, offered unusual insight into how deals get done in Silicon Valley and the freewheeling — some might say self-parodying — business culture at the biggest technology start-ups.AdvertisementMr. Kalanick said he and other Uber executives had a jam sesh, or jam session, with Mr. Levandowski on a Sunday while Mr. Levandowski was still employed by Google. In fact, Mr. Kalanick was such a fan of these sessions that a 2015 profile of him revealed that his home was called a Jam Pad.A jam sesh, as Mr. Kalanick explained it, is a business meeting akin to a session in which a jazz ensemble spontaneously works out music. Creative people come in with their own ideas and create beautiful music. Or business plans. The group discussed laser sensor technology that was critical to the operation of self-driving cars. A handwritten note on a whiteboard read, Laser is the sauce.Mr. Kalanick, wearing a dark-gray suit, a blue shirt and a silver tie in court Tuesday, didnt deny that Uber had wooed Mr. Levandowski and met with him at Ubers offices before he left Google. He said he was a big fan of the engineer, one of the first employees at Googles self-driving-car project, and wanted to hire him.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But there was a hangup: Mr. Levandowski wanted to venture out on his own.I wanted to hire Anthony and he wanted to start a company, so I tried to come up with a situation where he could feel like he started a company and I could feel like I hired him, Mr. Kalanick said, choosing his words carefully between long sips of water. He polished off four bottles of water in less than an hour on the witness stand.Uber acquired Otto for a reported $590 million in 2016, just six months after it was started. It is unclear how much Mr. Levandowski, already a wealthy man thanks to a $120 million bonus from his time at Google, personally made in the deal. An Uber spokesman, Matt Kallman, said the company had fired Mr. Levandowski in May before Otto could meet any of its performance targets. As a result, he lost out on an estimated $250 million worth of equity in Uber.Waymo contends that the clever solution — let Mr. Levandowski create his own company and then buy it — was simply obfuscation for a plot to steal important technology from Waymo.While the deal was unusual, its not rare for an executive to want to ensure his independence inside a larger company. Technology giants often have to sell founders of start-ups on the idea that they will maintain some independence, as well as a big payday, in an acquisition. Facebook, for example, acquired Instagram and kept the photo-sharing app a separate unit within the company.AdvertisementOtto is still an independent unit within Uber and is technically a separate defendant in this case.Waymo is trying to portray Mr. Kalanick and Mr. Levandowski as a pair of aggressive, money-hungry conspirators who worked together to steal Googles intellectual property.Before Mr. Kalanick testified, Ubers lawyers objected to Waymos presenting a text message that Mr. Levandowski sent to Mr. Kalanick with a clip from the movie Wall Street in which Gordon Gekko, played by Michael Douglas, passionately argues that greed, for the lack of a better word, is good. No ruling was made.On Wednesday, Mr. Kalanick is expected to be asked how much he revealed to Ubers board about Mr. Levandowski and what the engineer had taken with him from Google.In deposition testimony before the trial, Bill Gurley, an investor and a former board member at Uber, said the companys board had not been shown a due diligence report before the acquisition of Otto.Mr. Gurley, who stepped down from Ubers board in June, said he wouldnt have voted in favor of the acquisition had he known the report indicated that Mr. Levandowski possessed files from Google.Nathan Ballard, a spokesman for Mr. Levandowski, said after the session in the federal courthouse in San Francisco that although a great many things have been said about Anthony over the last two days, we are confident that he will eventually be vindicated.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi on Twitter: @daiwaka.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Key Ideas Flew in a Jam Sesh, Ubers Ex-Chief Testifies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JACEY FORTINFEB. 12, 2018
Sam Rose has a son who loves Peter Rabbit, a character from a childrens book by Beatrix Potter, but she wont take him to see Peter Rabbit, the new movie loosely based on it.The issue? Her son has food allergies, and a scene in the film shows blackberries being used as a weapon. The backlash to the scene has already drawn an apology from the filmmakers.Peter Rabbit, which came out last week, features live actors and computer-generated animals. A human character named Tom McGregor is allergic to blackberries. In a quest to gain access to his garden, rabbits pelt him with fruits and vegetables before using a slingshot to send a blackberry flying into his mouth.It works.Mr. McGregor struggles to inject himself with an EpiPen and then has anaphylaxis and collapses.AdvertisementIm pretty sure Beatrix Potter will be turning in her grave about now, Ms. Rose, who lives outside Guildford in Surrey, England, said in an interview on Facebook Messenger. Allergies are often not taken seriously enough anyway. To have them trivialized on the big screen by such a popular character is immensely disappointing.AdvertisementIn an emailed statement on Sunday, the filmmakers and Sony Pictures apologized: Food allergies are a serious issue. Our film should not have made light of Peter Rabbits archnemesis, Mr. McGregor, being allergic to blackberries, even in a cartoonish, slapstick way.The statement, which was attributed in part to the films director, writers and producers, added, We sincerely regret not being more aware and sensitive to this issue, and we truly apologize.Kenneth Mendez, the president and chief executive of the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, saw the movie on Saturday.When the rabbits fire a blackberry into Mr. McGregors mouth, Mr. Mendez said, theres a close-up of his face, and its him holding his neck like hes choking. When Mr. McGregor collapses and appears to be dead for a moment, the rabbits cheer.Mr. Mendez said in an open letter to the moviemakers that they should not mock food allergies, which are often life-threatening.Making light of this condition hurts our members because it encourages the public not to take the risk of allergic reactions seriously, and this cavalier attitude may make them act in ways that could put an allergic person in danger, it said.Mr. McGregor, played by Domhnall Gleeson, is made out to be the villain for most of the movie. He is determined to keep rabbits off his property using whatever he needs, from garden tools to an electric fence.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Peter Rabbit is rascally too, and he seems to delight in mocking and hurting Mr. McGregor as the two battle for dominion over the garden.AdvertisementThe movie fits an old trope of childrens shows in which two nemeses (like Wile E. Coyote and the Road Runner, Elmer Fudd and Bugs Bunny, or Tom and Jerry) face off, often with slapstick violence in the form of explosions, high-speed crashes or falling anvils.The reaction to the blackberry attack in Peter Rabbit, which is rated PG for rude humor and action, was mixed on social media. Some objected to what they saw as an insensitive disregard for allergies, and groups from as far away as Australia called for an apology. Others said it was only a movie and suggested that parents use it to start a conversation with their children about allergies.Dr. Andrew Adesman, the chief of developmental and behavioral pediatrics at the Cohen Childrens Medical Center of New York in Queens, said he remembered watching Wile E. Coyote cartoons as a child. He said the blackberry attack in Peter Rabbit is a little different because it purposely exploits a persons health condition.Theres some research out there suggesting that what is depicted in this movie is a real-world experience for some children with life-threatening food allergies, Dr. Adesman said in an interview on Sunday. I can understand the outrage.Nicole Drey of Merrick, N.Y., said her son Brayden, 7, has such severe allergies that she takes him to movie theaters early in the day, when the air and the seats are as clean as possible.They went to see Peter Rabbit on Friday morning, Ms. Drey said in a phone interview. And when Mr. McGregor collapsed onscreen, she tried to reassure her son. I just kept explaining to him that its make believe, its not real, and people dont act that way, she said.Brayden did not like it.I was really afraid about the one part where they shot the blackberries, he said. I was upset because he had to use his EpiPen.In real life, he added, using the EpiPen is scary.Ms. Drey said that she knew it was just a childrens film, but that people that dont deal with this dont understand. She has spent years helping Brayden deal with bullying, isolation, medical appointments and the everyday logistical challenges of finding safe food.I think there should have been a trigger warning, and we should have been notified somehow, she said of the movie. Put it out there, so we can at least talk to our kids about the contents and then make an informed decision.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy David GonzalezPhotographs by Sofia JaramilloSofia Jaramillo may have been mountain biking ahead of the pack, but as she soon found out, that was nothing compared to being behind the herd. Twelve years old at the time, she was attending her first mountain bike camp in her hometown, Ketchum, Idaho, riding on a bumpy forest road when her tire slid into a rut. Things didnt just get hairy, they got downright woolly.Suddenly, I looked up and hundreds of sheep were blocking the road, she recalled. I panicked, turned my wheel, hit my front brakes and flew over my handlebars. When I opened my eyes, I was surrounded by sheep. I ended up landing on my hip so hard I had to get stitches. The encounter left her with not just a scar, but also a deep curiosity about sheep herding (which is why all those sheep were there in the first place). She already knew about the local sheep festival, which was started in Idaho by Basque immigrants who had come over a century ago to tend to the livestock. Now, at 26, she has turned that curiosity into a series that looks at the lives of Peruvian sheep herders who work in Washington State, where Ms. Jaramillo is a full-time freelance photographer.Theirs is an isolated, nomadic existence. They are brought here through a special visa program, which has them working for two and a half year stretches, leading the sheep to graze through forests and plains, on unmarked paths that they know as if they were just going for a stroll around the block. Every two days, they move on to a different area, with a trailer housing the bed and belongings hauled by a beat up truck. Finally, working more or less around the clock — sheep do not keep 9-5 hours — they return home for three months before starting the cycle all over again.Ms. Jaramillo said the eight Peruvian herders in Washington State all hailed from the same town, and brought with them a special set of skills that are hard to find locally, at least for $1,250 a month, which is what ranchers pay them. She said a rancher told her that he had hired only a handful of American laborers, but they washed out after a week. Its such hard labor and you have to have an extensive knowledge base, she said. Theyre constantly chasing sheep, you have to vaccinate them, youre moving 2,000 sheep up mountainside with very little supplies. In the spring, theyre all brought to the farm and 70 babies are born each day. You have to know exactly what to do.Ms. Jaramillo discovered that finding the right subject was just as difficult. By day she would most likely have to be in the middle of the woods with a shotgun-toting herder and no cellphone service. At night she would have to sleep in a tent pitched next to the herders trailer.Luckily, she formed a trusting relationship with Heraclio DeLaCruz, a 58-year-old herder who has been doing this work for 17 years. One of his sons has joined him in this work, which has allowed Mr. DeLaCruz to send another son through the police academy and a daughter through nursing school.The herders and their sheep move through hundreds of miles, through forests and farmland, in the summer, she said. Supplies arrive every two weeks, brought by the rancher who hired them. They protect the animals from bears, cougars and wolves, paying attention to strays and weak or ill animals that could be easy pickings for predators.Its not easy to stay in touch with the world outside, but the herders have found ways. They can pick up a Spanish-language station in Yakima and, when they have a cellphone signal, can dial into a Peruvian station that plays traditional music. Nor has it been easy for Ms. Jaramillo to find them.Its sometimes hard, thats why the project has taken so long, she said. I go with an approximate direction. I cant call them to confirm theyre there. Ive gotten lost sometimes. Sometimes it takes an hour up winding forest roads with turns only these guys know. This work is difficult for other reasons, too, she said, since foreign markets offer wool at lower prices. Also, although the ranch employing the Peruvian herders has a federal license to graze on public lands, there is still opposition from people concerned about the threat posed to natural species by the grazing herds. More recently, the Peruvian workers have been worried about proposals for the U.S. government to take a cut of remittances they send home in order to build the border wall. She said Mr. DeLaCruz had no plans to stop being a herder, despite the loneliness and family separation. She knows this is not an easy decision for him, but she understands why.It very difficult work, not only the labor, but mainly the solitude because you spend most of the year alone, she said. I admire that he does this for his family.Follow @SofiaJPhoto and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Sofia Jaramillo is also on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram. AdvertisementBy KAREN ZRAICK and SANDRA STEVENSONFEB. 7, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. A genuine breakthrough.Thats what Senator Chuck Schumer called the far-reaching budget deal he struck with Senator Mitch McConnell in a rare bipartisan moment. The agreement would add hundreds of billions of dollars to military and domestic programs over the next two years.But it has only tomorrow to pass in the House before a federal shutdown, and theres opposition on both sides of the aisle there.Representative Nancy Pelosi spoke on the House floor for hours to protest the bill, which did not include protections for the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. Above, a TV screen showed footage of her remarks on Capitol Hill.____2. Stocks on Wall Street wavered again, and markets appeared to be recovering from days of tumult.AdvertisementIf youre a young investor, and this is your first market hiccup, we have some advice.President Trump, in his first comments about the stock market plunge, blamed the good (great) news on the economy for the abrupt declines, and called the volatility a big mistake.____3. Kim Jong-uns Ivanka will be part of North Koreas delegation at the Olympics opening ceremony.AdvertisementShes the sister of Kim Jong-un, the Norths leader. (Her nickname in South Korean media offers a hint of her influence in his secretive government.)Kim Yo-jons visit — the first to the South by an immediate member of the Norths ruling family — will most likely include a meeting with President Moon Jae-in. But the real question is whether she, or any other top North Korean official, will meet with Vice President Mike Pence.____4. The Los Angeles Times is being sold to Patrick Soon-Shiong, a billionaire doctor who grew up in apartheid South Africa, for $500 million. The deal comes after months of turmoil and turnover at the paper.Dr. Soon-Shiong was once a major shareholder in Tronc, the newspapers parent company. He told us in a 2016 interview that he considers newspapers a public trust.____5. Silicon Alley is growing — rapidly.In the latest jump in Manhattans tech footprint, Google is buying the Chelsea Market, a mammoth food mart, office building and tourist attraction, for $2.4 billion.Googles New York headquarters, across the street, already has more square footage than the Empire State Building, and Amazon, Facebook and Spotify are also expanding in the city.Advertisement____6. Chile killed Tony the Tiger.Facing skyrocketing rates of obesity, the government is waging war on unhealthy foods, including nixing iconic cartoon characters from cereal boxes.Nutrition experts say the broad effort is the worlds most ambitious attempt to remake a countrys food culture.____7. Online porn is everywhere, and young people sometimes learn much of what they know about sex from it.Our magazine looks at a new approach in use in some after-school programs in the U.S.: teaching young people to view pornography more critically. They call it porn literacy.____8. Two writers have discovered an unpublished manuscript they believe Shakespeare consulted to write some of his most famous plays.Howd they do it? With the help of software typically used by professors to nab cheating students.The authors are not suggesting that Shakespeare stole his material, but rather that he was inspired by the imaginative, florid language in A Brief Discourse of Rebellion and Rebels, written in the late 1500s by a minor figure in the court of Queen Elizabeth.____9. The U.S.-Mexico border is in the news every day, in continuing debates about immigration and spending on security initiatives. But what is it like to visit?To find out, we sent writers to five sister cities there, to see the sights on each side. In Tijuana, our intrepid correspondent embarked on a delectable gastronomic tour. Above, a torta she dubbed the best sandwich of her life.Advertisement____10. Finally, in honor of the Olympics, here is our guide to South Koreas prime export: K-pop.Thats the term used to describe the ecstatic and outrageously polished pop music that has become essential to the countrys global image. The style and sound are unmistakable — pinpoint precision, flamboyant fashion and smoothed-over borrowings from American R&B and hip-hop. Above, the boy band EXO.K-pop acts will perform throughout the Winter Games and the music will have a notable presence in the closing ceremony, on Feb. 25.Have a great night.____Get a nightly rundown of the days top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By RUTH LA FERLAFEB. 7, 2018
When Lela Rose gives a party, she leaves no detail to chance. At the immaculately orchestrated soiree-cum-fashion show at her store-front-style loft in TriBeCa last night, guests sampled Malpeque oysters, deviled quail eggs and elderflower cocktails, narrowly dodging Bobbin, the designers terrier, who frisked underfoot.They snapped photos of the coltish models poised on a dining table raised to double as a runway. In Ms. Roses fashion presentation, among the first of New York Fashion Week, those ponytailed mannequins showed off the cheery elements of Pearl, Ms. Roses new diffusion line.Her coral lace dresses and dotted Swiss frocks were color-keyed to the cocktail napkins. No shame in that, Ms. Rose said, adding with only a whisper of irony, Nothing says chic like matching your drink to your dress.The scene, pointedly art directed to reflect the casually patrician sensibility that is Ms. Roses stock in trade, attested as well to her singular brand of perfectionism.Lela is relentless, said Celerie Kemble, the decorator and Ms. Roses longtime chum. She doesnt think about making dresses so much as she thinks of creating an ambience. When Ms. Rose is working, Ms. Kemble said, there is an imaginary film reel in her head: She is not just about making dresses — shes thinking about where she will wear them, what will food she will serve, and what would be the perfect cocktail to balance the mood.AdvertisementThere is method in her mania. Ms. Roses gathering, modeled on a traditional trunk show — more like a living room Tupperware party, actually, but selling frocks, not pots — evoked nothing so much as mid-1960s Palm Beach. There, as legend has it, Lily Pulitzer began selling her giddily patterned pink and lime shifts to an intimate circle of friends, and from a fruit stand.AdvertisementLela is the modern-day Lily, said Robert Burke of Robert Burke Associates, the New York luxury consulting company. The comparison is apt. Lily was highly social, Mr. Burke said. Invitations to her Sunday lunches in Palm Beach were highly coveted.Her designs were festive, breezy and candidly pretty, not unlike those of Ms. Rose.Pearl, priced from about $155 to $650, is two parts crisp practicality, one part froth. A deep-pocketed, coral tone jacket can double as a dress; boxy tweed jackets can be worn over tubular sheaths.On the more overtly coquettish side is a noodle-strapped dotted Swiss sundress and, in a stroke worthy of Lily Pulitzer herself, a floral lace shift in throbbing tangerine.The ease and flirtatiousness of the clothes is part of the draw. Lela has such a sense of femininity and fun, said Jenna Bush, the Today show correspondent and twin daughter of George W. Bush.So is Ms. Roses pedigree. Her mother is Deedie Rose, the Texas art collector and Dallas grande dame. Her father was Edward Rose, a Dallas investment banker who was one of the owners, along with Mr. Bush, of the Texas Rangers baseball team. The Bushes are old family friends, Ms. Rose wants you to know. Because, as she would be first to acknowledge, in the hotly competitive fashion world, you are only as good as the people you dress.She imagines her client as a real estate agent, or maybe junior philanthropist, or chairwoman of her local P.T.A. She may reside in any one of six cities, including San Francisco, Dallas and Charlotte, N.C. Each of those cities will in fact be served by a stylist-slash-hostess handpicked by Ms. Rose to give Lela-style parties in their own homes for a far-reaching network of local clients and friends.I love the graciousness of creating a kind of salon, Ms. Rose said. I want people in each of those cities to feel a sense of connection and community.AdvertisementPearl will not be sold in stores or, for the moment, online, the decision to circumvent conventional retail a strategic one.A look from across The New York Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman as your personal shopper. Sent weekly.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Its a form of guerrilla marketing, Mr. Burke said, a way of connecting directly to customers.Shopping, he added, is not just about Facebook ads and Instagram. I do think that people are missing the emotional and physical touch of visiting stores.And for fans of Ms. Rose, missing the coziness of breaking bread with friends. Tireless, the designer had baked cookies. She passed out cocktail recipes and offered canapés.I thought of matching the canapés to the drinks, she said, rolling her eyes, but not really abashed.Thank goodness, the office talked me down from that.A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Nothing Says Chic Like Matching Drinks and Dresses.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NATHANIEL POPPERFEB. 7, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — The creators of the famous Forbes rich list have made their first attempt to identify the wealthiest people in the virtual currency industry. Yet the list that was published on Wednesday, right after major drops in virtual currency prices, inadvertently also served as a reminder of the fleeting nature of that wealth.While the list in Forbes magazine, which was assembled in recent weeks, identifies about 10 virtual currency billionaires, most of them were not billionaires by the time the feature went online on Wednesday morning. On Monday alone, the prices of many virtual currencies plummeted over 20 percent, before stabilizing on Tuesday.At the top of the list is Chris Larsen, a founder of the Ripple virtual currency. Mr. Larsen was briefly estimated to be wealthier than Facebooks Mark Zuckerberg last month when Ripples price peaked, taking his net wealth to nearly $60 billion.Since then, the price of Ripples digital token, XRP, has fallen more than 80 percent. Forbes put Mr. Larsens wealth at around $8 billion, but the same holdings were worth less than $6 billion by Wednesday.AdvertisementMr. Larsen is followed on the Forbes list by Joseph Lubin, an early investor in the Ethereum virtual currency network; Changpeng Zhao, founder of the virtual currency exchange Binance; the brothers Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, longtime Bitcoin investors who are famous from their legal battles with Mr. Zuckerberg over Facebook; and Matthew Mellon, the banking heir who is now a major holder of XRP.AdvertisementThe list is a reminder of how the biggest gains in virtual currencies have been reaped by a small number of early adopters — despite the early promises that virtual currencies could democratize the financial system and spread wealth more evenly.Nearly all of the people on the list either helped found virtual currencies or have been involved with them for years. Recent efforts to quantify the inequality among Bitcoin holders have found that it is significantly higher than in even the most stratified countries, which may sting many people who recently rushed into virtual currencies and are now sitting on losses.For early virtual currency adopters like the people on the Forbes list, the recent price declines are not catastrophic. The price of Bitcoin is still up 600 percent from a year ago, and up 70,000 percent from when the Winklevoss twins began buying in 2012.Identifying the richest people in the secretive and paranoid virtual currency realm is far from easy; some of it is guesswork. Mr. Lubin, whom Forbes pegged as the second-wealthiest person in the virtual currency universe, illustrates the difficulties. He told the magazine that he had begun selling his Ethereum tokens, known as Ether, last year to fund his business, ConsenSys. Because Forbes could not verify his holdings, the magazine put his wealth at between $1 billion and $5 billion before the most recent price declines.The normal Forbes billionaires list is easier to compile because the richest people in the world generally have most of their wealth tied up in stock holdings, which usually have to be disclosed for big public companies. With virtual currencies, it is not necessary to disclose your identity, and the system was created by people who were interested in protecting financial privacy.Many large holders of virtual currencies are loath to acknowledge their holdings for privacy and security reasons, and many people who are rumored to have giant Bitcoin stockpiles are not on the Forbes list.Perhaps the most notable omission is Satoshi Nakamoto, the mysterious creator of Bitcoin, whose identity has been guessed at many times but never confirmed. Researchers have guessed that Satoshi, as the creator is known, most likely amassed about one million Bitcoins during the networks first year, when few other people were mining new tokens. Those Bitcoins would now be worth around $7 billion.Others have publicly claimed to have large holdings without verifying those holdings. Brock Pierce, a former child actor and the leader of a virtual currency community in Puerto Rico, has said he would donate $1 billion of his virtual currency fortune to charity, but Forbes said, He refuses to provide documentation that proves he has anywhere near that much money. The magazine estimated Mr. Pierces wealth at between $700 million and $1 billion.The list suggests that inventing virtual currencies can end up being less lucrative than investing in them. The magazine estimated that the inventor of Ethereum, Vitalik Buterin, is less wealthy than two early investors, Mr. Lubin and Anthony Di Iorio, who had previously managed his familys patio-door business in Canada.And while three big holders of Ripples token, XRP, are on the list, the inventor of the digital token, Jed McCaleb, is not.Follow Nathaniel Popper on Twitter: @nathanielpopper.A version of this article appears in print on February 8, 2018, on Page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: Top Virtual Billionaires (on Tuesday Night).  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ERIC ASIMOVFEB. 5, 2018
I never used to think much about vinegar. The word itself, from the French term for sour wine, suggested it was for the most part something to avoid. I knew it was essential for salad dressings, and I loved malt vinegar with fish and chips, though repeated applications never seemed to yield quite enough flavor.As the wine critic for The New York Times, I understood that good vinegar existed, but I never sought it out. Perhaps I had been scarred by harsh industrial versions, and the cloying knockoffs of balsamic vinegar that had somehow kept showing up in my kitchen.Then, a few years ago, some really good vinegar shook me by the shoulders and said, Love me!It was not store-bought, but made by a colleague, the Times photographer Tony Cenicola, who often shoots the tastings by our wine panel. Afterward, he takes away the half-empty bottles to photograph them. What happened after that, I never thought to ask.Back in 2014, though, Tony told me he had been using the leftover wines to make vinegar. He offered me a bottle he had made from aglianico, a sturdy red from southern Italy. It was superb, gently acidic and subtly flavored, fruity with the mildest lingering bite. For me, this opened up a new world of uses for vinegar, like deglazing saucepans and flavoring braised greens.AdvertisementStill, it took me that entire bottle, and another exceptional one that Tony made from leftover Provençal rosé, before it occurred to me that maybe I could make vinegar, too.AdvertisementI certainly had plenty of leftover wine. And Tony had told me there was nothing to it. He had simply put the wine into one-gallon glass jugs, covered them tightly with white cotton cloth and left them on top of his refrigerator for an entire year.So last spring, I got myself a one-gallon stoneware crock with a spigot. While doing a modest bit of online research, I noticed references to a vinegar mother, something akin to a sourdough starter, that would get fermentation going and speed the vinegar along. A timeline of a few months seemed more attractive than Tonys patient year.Many online references point to Bragg Organic Apple Cider Vinegar, which is bottled unfiltered, with the mother, as a good starter. But a mother for red-wine vinegar was not as easy to find. Luckily, Kevin Pike, a wine importer who also makes vinegar, pointed me in the direction of Supreme Vinegar, which sells mothers for wine vinegar. Problem solved.With great anticipation, following directions from Supreme Vinegar, I combined eight ounces of the mother with the same amount of water and 16 ounces of red wine to make a test batch. But that seemed not enough wine, so I doubled the amount. I covered the top of the crock with cheesecloth, stretched a rubber band around the rim and left it in a dark corner of our Manhattan apartment. The directions advised leaving it for six to 12 weeks. I was imagining gifts of holiday vinegar for my friends.I gave it five weeks before checking. An enormous amount, maybe half, had evaporated, and the mother had formed a firm crust over the top. The vinegar smelled powerfully acetic and tasted overwhelmingly harsh. Thinking it needed to be diluted, I added another bottle and a half of red wine. Then I left it for another five weeks.More evaporation. What remained was indeed vinegar, but it still tasted overpowering rather than gentle and lilting, like Tonys. Its intensity hurt, actually. I added another bottle and a half of wine and left it for another month.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was now midsummer, more than three months since I had started. I thought I had better ignore the vinegar for a while. And I tried, but it was hard to be optimistic. For one thing, if I was in the vicinity of the crock, I could smell it. And the smell was as potent as ever. The acid aroma mocked me, eating away at my confidence.Then, in November, eight months from the start, I decided I needed to move it along. I lifted the crock from its corner and was surprised to find underneath it a thick, dark, crusted patch, as if a spill had occurred. Putting the crock in a sink, I removed the cheesecloth. The vinegar was practically all gone, except for the thick, matlike crust of the mother.AdvertisementIt could not have leaked. Had it evaporated? Had somebody accidentally spilled it? My wife and I had recently engaged a house cleaner who had left a trail of broken light bulbs and cracked soap dishes as evidence of her efforts. I had a suspicion, though I never got to the bottom of this particular domestic drama.It did liberate me, however, from this failed batch. I was determined to try again, though with Tonys laissez-faire approach. I scraped away the mother crust, rinsed the crock with wine and filled it. I put it away two months ago.Tony has told me that he finds it hard to use any vinegar other than his own. He has counseled patience. Give it at least a year to get started, he said.Im waiting.Exploring the Sweet Subtleties of Vinegar, by Tejal RaoFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Making  (Bad) Vinegar  at Home.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ROBERT SIMONSONFEB. 2, 2018
Chicago will host a new cocktail conference this spring. Called Chicago Style, it will take place May 7 to 10, after the gala for the James Beard Awards.While the conventions format is familiar — seminars, parties and competitions for bartenders, bar owners, spirit makers and others in the industry — its philosophical mission sets it apart. The three founders, all women, plan to use the gathering to address social problems, including sexism, substance abuse and a lack of diversity, that the bar business has started to grapple with over the past year or so.Its website sums up the mix as equal parts think and drink.Where we will differ from other conferences is the diversity of our panelists and participants, and our inclusion of discussions directly addressing race, gender and sexual identity within these panel topics, said Shelby Allison, an owner of the Chicago tiki bar Lost Lake and one of the events founders.The other two are Caitlin Laman, the beverage director at the Ace Hotel Chicago, where many of the conventions daytime events will take place; and Sharon Bronstein, directing of marketing for the 86 Co., which makes and imports spirits.AdvertisementThe timing of the new convention is fortuitous, just months after the founders of Tales of the Cocktail — long the worlds pre-eminent cocktail conclave, in New Orleans — stepped down after accusations of racial insensitivity. (Tales recently received new leadership: The Solomons, a prominent New Orleans philanthropic family, is set to buy the festival.) News of the Chicago event also arrives as the #MeToo movement continues to gain steam.AdvertisementBut the three partners began making plans early last year, before any of those developments.You know, the time has been right for this conversation for a long time, Ms. Allison said. Yesterday was the right time. Five years ago was the right time. Im so happy that movements like #MeToo are catapulting this into the national conversation. The next step in that conversation is to make workplaces happier, safer and more inclusive.Panels will include one on the cross section between race, gender, sexuality within the hospitality community, said Ashtin Berry, one of the panelists and beverage director of Tokyo Record Bar in New York City. Also on the panel will be Don Lee, a New York bartender and developer of barware who has long been outspoken on social issues.Among the main events will be a party held by Trash Tiki, a group that promotes sustainability and the elimination of waste behind the bar; and the national championship of Speed Rack, a contest for female bartenders started by Ivy Mix and Lynnette Marrero. The enterprise donates about $100,000 every year to breast cancer charities.For Ms. Marrero, the partnership with Chicago Style was a natural. They share the same ideology as Speed Rack in many ways, she said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Allison anticipates that many of the other festivities will take place at Chicago bars and restaurants that have women or people of color or queer people at the helm.Weve been here, said Nandini Khaund, the beverage director at Cindys, a rooftop bar in the Chicago Athletic Association Hotel, who will take part in a panel. We are brown, we are queer and you may not have noticed because the institutions are slower to acknowledge the shift in the paradigm.The conventions intent to do things differently extends to its corporate sponsorship. Critics of cocktail conventions have complained in the past that powerful liquor conglomerates use their influence to set the agenda. Chicago Style will seek backing from the spirits industry, but on its own terms.Were building our programming first and then finding partners that want to support us as we are, Ms. Allison said. Were not shying away from radical conversations.AdvertisementThe conference will be for-profit, with some money going to two charitable organizations: the Chicago Period Project, an organization that distributes feminine hygiene products to people in need; and the James Beard Foundations Women Leadership Programs, which offers mentoring opportunities to women in the restaurant industry.A full schedule of events will be released mid-February, and ticket sales begin March 1.We love the hospitality industry, Ms. Allison said. As an industry, its one that prides itself on making people welcome. Theres no way we can continue to pride ourselves on inclusion if we dont also operate our businesses on that level.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A New Cocktail Conference With a Political Twist.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Mini-Vows By                     
VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

FEB. 10, 2018
Katherine Russell Boe and Samuel Douglas Heuck were married Feb. 10 at Washington National Cathedral. The Rev. Dana Colley Corsello, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, who is 26 and will be taking her husbands name, works in Shanghai, as the program manager for the Joint U.S.-China Collaboration on Clean Energy, a nongovernment organization and consultancy for sustainability in mainland China. She graduated from Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Va.She is the daughter of Elizabeth Russell Boe and Randall J. Boe, both of Washington. The brides father is the executive vice president and general counsel of Monumental Sports and Entertainment, a Washington-based company that owns and operates the Washington Capitals of the N.H.L., the Washington Wizards of the N.B.A., the Washington Mystics of the W.N.B.A., and the Verizon Center in Washington. Her mother retired as a lawyer at Arent Fox, a law firm in Washington.The groom, who is 28 and also works in Shanghai, is the general manager of Amann Group China, a German textile manufacturer. He graduated from Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio.AdvertisementHe is a son of Marylynn Uricchio Heuck and Douglas Heuck of Fox Chapel, Pa. The grooms father is the publisher and editor of Pittsburgh Quarterly and the director of Pittsburgh Today, a research institute that charts the progress of the Pittsburgh area to other regions in the country. His mother is the former film critic and society editor for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.AdvertisementMr. Heuck was the first person that Ms. Boe met in August 2013, when she arrived in Shanghai to enroll in a Chinese-language program that would begin two weeks later in Beijing. They had already been introduced earlier that month, via Facebook, by Mr. Heucks sister, Lidey Heuck, who is a friend of Ms. Boe.I remember our conversation just flowing so naturally and feeling so comfortable around him, Ms. Boe said of their first encounter, at a bar in Shanghai. We were finishing each others sentences.Mr. Heuck, who had been working in Shanghai for nine months before Ms. Boe arrived, said she was beautiful, intelligent and very funny.I had feelings for her, but I wasnt quite sure at first if she felt the same way about me, he said.They met a few more times before it was time for Ms. Boe to depart for Beijing, which had me feeling anxious, she said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I was disappointed about having to leave because it was too early to know what Sam was thinking about me, she said. I was really nervous about the whole thing.She was feeling better six weeks later when Mr. Heuck went to Beijing to see her again. They spent two days together talking and walking around the city while dropping in on bars and restaurants.I was truly inspired by Sam on so many levels, Ms. Boe said. He was successful, intelligent, kindhearted and fun to be with, he was even fluent in Chinese.AdvertisementWhen Ms. Boes Chinese language course came to an end, so did her stay in China, and now it was Mr. Heucks turn to start feeling anxious.At that point we didnt know what was going to happen between us, he said. I do know that when she wasnt there, I started looking around and wondering what I was doing there. From the moment Ms. Boe returned home to Washington, she had been wondering much of the same, but she stopped wondering in September 2014, when she landed a job in Shanghai.I was excited because I was going back to the place where I felt I had met the person I was destined to meet, she said. We have lived a very different kind of life in China filled with travel and adventure.Despite the great times abroad, Ms. Boe and Mr. Heuck, both of whom miss their family and friends, are planning on returning home soon.While we met 7,000 miles away from home and have loved our life in Asia, Mr. Heuck said, were looking forward to starting our married life back on the East Coast this spring.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page ST15 of the New York edition with the headline: Finding Her Soulmate 7,000 Miles From Home.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth PatonLONDON — Can you trademark a color?The French shoe designer Christian Louboutin — known for sky-high stiletto shoes with scarlet soles that can sell for upward of $1,000 — has been trying to do so for years. Mr. Louboutin first grabbed his assistants red nail polish and applied it to the outsoles of a shoe a quarter-century ago. Since then, he has frequently declared the design element to be his recognizable signature, and argued it merits legal protection.On Tuesday, the European Unions highest court dealt a blow to that effort.Mr. Louboutin had filed a lawsuit in 2012 against Van Haren, a Dutch company whose retail outlets were selling affordably priced high-heeled womens shoes with red soles. Lawyers for Mr. Louboutin claimed that the shoes sold by Van Haren, part of its Fifth Avenue by Halle Berry line, infringed on his brands trademark for footwear. That trademark, registered in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, referred to the color red (Pantone 18 1663TP) applied to the sole of a shoe.Van Haren had to temporarily stop making and selling the line of shoes, but the companys lawyers fought back and the case eventually made its way to the European Court of Justice.They have now won something of a reprieve. Maciej Szpunar, an advocate general for the court, said on Tuesday that Mr. Louboutins red soles were not a separate entity from the shape of his high-heeled shoes, and shapes typically cannot be trademarked under European Union law.In effect, he argued in a legal opinion, Mr. Louboutins red soles could be refused trademark protection, sending the case back to Dutch courts to consider. Judges in national courts typically, though not always, follow advice from the European Court of Justices advocates general.The case highlights one of the most difficult questions in fashion: In a world where designers often have distinct styles, and attract admirers based on those styles, what can, and cannot, be trademarked?Major luxury conglomerates like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton and Kering have historically been the most litigious, often using the courts to battle the counterfeiting that has long been a headache in the fashion industry. More recently, however, smaller brands and designers have also started to pursue legal action, particularly against larger luxury or fast-fashion companies that they claim use their designs without acknowledgment or permission.Last week, the Indian designer Orijit Sen and his New Delhi-based studio and store People Tree accused Christian Dior of plagiarizing a block print of a man doing yoga poses. Mr. Sen argued that he had formulated the design in 2000, and complained when it was used for a red dress worn by the Bollywood actress Sonam Kapoor on the cover of Elles Indian edition last month. He posted his complaints on Facebook under the title Unchristian Dior.And in 2016, the fast-fashion chain Zara was accused by at least 20 independent artists of plagiarizing designs, while one of the most powerful voices to emerge in the online fashion world in recent months is Diet Prada, an Instagram account dedicated to calling out copying in the industry.Indeed, illustrating the complexity of the issue, Mr. Louboutin himself previously won a battle against the rival luxury fashion house Yves Saint Laurent in a United States federal appeals court, allowing him to protect his red soles as a source-identifying trademark.But Mr. Szpunars opinion for the European Court of Justice could mean that Louboutin would not be able to stop its competitors, including haute couture fashion houses, from offering shoes with red soles, said Sanjay Kapur, a partner at the British law firm Potter Clarkson and a specialist in trademark law.Trying to persuade courts to grant such protection to designs like Mr. Louboutins may well be an insurmountable hurdle, Mr. Kapur said. The red sole could therefore become ubiquitous, which would seriously reduce the cachet associated with the Louboutin brand.Follow Elizabeth Paton on Twitter: @LizziePaton.AdvertisementBy DAISUKE WAKABAYASHIFEB. 6, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Basketball players have pickup games. Rappers have freestyle cyphers. Tech entrepreneurs, according to the former chief executive of Uber, riff on big ideas in something they call a jam sesh.Travis Kalanick, the former chief executive of Uber, who is known for pushing boundaries in business, kept his answers short and his demeanor neutral as he testified on Tuesday in a high-profile court fight between Waymo and his former employer over intellectual property.Waymo, the self-driving-car unit of Googles parent company, Alphabet, called Mr. Kalanick to the stand during the first full day of testimony in the federal trial. It hoped to reveal how Ubers win-at-all-costs attitude had pushed the company to acquire Otto, an autonomous-vehicle start-up created by a former Google engineer, Anthony Levandowski.Waymo contends — and Uber denies — that the deal was part of Ubers plan to steal intellectual property from Googles self-driving-car project, which would later be renamed Waymo, in order to close the gap in an area of technology essential to its business.AdvertisementAs he waded through questions from Waymos lawyers, Mr. Kalanick, who resigned in June as Ubers chief executive, offered unusual insight into how deals get done in Silicon Valley and the freewheeling — some might say self-parodying — business culture at the biggest technology start-ups.AdvertisementMr. Kalanick said he and other Uber executives had a jam sesh, or jam session, with Mr. Levandowski on a Sunday while Mr. Levandowski was still employed by Google. In fact, Mr. Kalanick was such a fan of these sessions that a 2015 profile of him revealed that his home was called a Jam Pad.A jam sesh, as Mr. Kalanick explained it, is a business meeting akin to a session in which a jazz ensemble spontaneously works out music. Creative people come in with their own ideas and create beautiful music. Or business plans. The group discussed laser sensor technology that was critical to the operation of self-driving cars. A handwritten note on a whiteboard read, Laser is the sauce.Mr. Kalanick, wearing a dark-gray suit, a blue shirt and a silver tie in court Tuesday, didnt deny that Uber had wooed Mr. Levandowski and met with him at Ubers offices before he left Google. He said he was a big fan of the engineer, one of the first employees at Googles self-driving-car project, and wanted to hire him.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But there was a hangup: Mr. Levandowski wanted to venture out on his own.I wanted to hire Anthony and he wanted to start a company, so I tried to come up with a situation where he could feel like he started a company and I could feel like I hired him, Mr. Kalanick said, choosing his words carefully between long sips of water. He polished off four bottles of water in less than an hour on the witness stand.Uber acquired Otto for a reported $590 million in 2016, just six months after it was started. It is unclear how much Mr. Levandowski, already a wealthy man thanks to a $120 million bonus from his time at Google, personally made in the deal. An Uber spokesman, Matt Kallman, said the company had fired Mr. Levandowski in May before Otto could meet any of its performance targets. As a result, he lost out on an estimated $250 million worth of equity in Uber.Waymo contends that the clever solution — let Mr. Levandowski create his own company and then buy it — was simply obfuscation for a plot to steal important technology from Waymo.While the deal was unusual, its not rare for an executive to want to ensure his independence inside a larger company. Technology giants often have to sell founders of start-ups on the idea that they will maintain some independence, as well as a big payday, in an acquisition. Facebook, for example, acquired Instagram and kept the photo-sharing app a separate unit within the company.AdvertisementOtto is still an independent unit within Uber and is technically a separate defendant in this case.Waymo is trying to portray Mr. Kalanick and Mr. Levandowski as a pair of aggressive, money-hungry conspirators who worked together to steal Googles intellectual property.Before Mr. Kalanick testified, Ubers lawyers objected to Waymos presenting a text message that Mr. Levandowski sent to Mr. Kalanick with a clip from the movie Wall Street in which Gordon Gekko, played by Michael Douglas, passionately argues that greed, for the lack of a better word, is good. No ruling was made.On Wednesday, Mr. Kalanick is expected to be asked how much he revealed to Ubers board about Mr. Levandowski and what the engineer had taken with him from Google.In deposition testimony before the trial, Bill Gurley, an investor and a former board member at Uber, said the companys board had not been shown a due diligence report before the acquisition of Otto.Mr. Gurley, who stepped down from Ubers board in June, said he wouldnt have voted in favor of the acquisition had he known the report indicated that Mr. Levandowski possessed files from Google.Nathan Ballard, a spokesman for Mr. Levandowski, said after the session in the federal courthouse in San Francisco that although a great many things have been said about Anthony over the last two days, we are confident that he will eventually be vindicated.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi on Twitter: @daiwaka.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Key Ideas Flew in a Jam Sesh, Ubers Ex-Chief Testifies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew BorygaThere are more than two million incarcerated people in the United States. We, the public, have seen countless images of them: Arms laced between rusted metal bars; gloomy faces staring at us, backs against a white wall; bodies shrouded in orange jumpsuits. These images pop up over and over in our cultural lexicon, but do little to make us consider the individuals portrayed. When we think of the word mass incarceration we think of the word mass, said Nicole Fleetwood, an associate professor of American studies at Rutgers University and scholar on incarceration. But every person has a story.Ms. Fleetwood has now collaborated with Aperture magazine on its latest issue, Prison Nation, which features the work of more than a dozen photographers and writers. The issue addresses the role photography can play in creating a visual record of mass incarceration that focuses less on prisons and more on the human beings inside. A lot of the images we see related to incarceration are destructive, said Michael Famighetti, Apertures editor. We looked for projects that highlight individuality within the system from different points of view. Ms. Fleetwood and Mr. Famighetti said the prospect of giving inmates the power to decide how they appear and how to showcase their humanity was central to Prison Nation. Often that power is used against inmates, but with the release of the issue and the lineup of public lectures and presentations in New York and other cities across the country that will follow, they hope to change that. The featured work includes Bruce Jacksons photos of Southern prisons in the 1960s and 70s that eerily resemble plantation life; Jack Lueders-Booths intimate portraits of female prisoners four decades ago posing as they wanted to be seen, with no barbed wire or uniforms; and Lucas Foglias more recent, buoyant images of inmates at Rikers Island tending gardens. Essays include a meditation on the history of the mug shot by the scholar Shawn Michelle Smith and a conversation between the photographers Jamel Shabazz and Lorenzo Steele, Jr., who both previously worked as corrections officers on Rikers Island. Some of the most striking photographs are Deborah Lusters portraits of inmates acting in a production of The Life of Jesus Christ at Angola prison, the notorious maximum security prison in Louisiana. The play was staged three times between 2012 and 2013 before an audience of inmates, family and the public. Ms. Lusters photos are stark. The background of each seated actor is clouded in black. Their gaze is a cocktail of serious brooding and reflection, each channeling his or her inner Brando. Their costumes were made by their own hands: to portray a Roman soldier, a breastplate was fashioned from scavenged vinyl, a football helmet was reconfigured to resemble that of a warrior, and swords were made from cardboard and duct tape. Ms. Luster said the performance was held in the prisons famed rodeo arena, where she made each portrait backstage, under the bleachers. At one point, a camel was in the next stall. However comical the conditions were at times, none of this is visible in her photographs. Ms. Luster said the inmates changed dramatically after putting on their costumes, completely inhabiting their characters. She was not surprised. After all, prison is the ultimate theater. You have to be one person to the guard, you have to be another person if someone is threatening you, she said. There are all these characters. If you are going to survive in that environment you have to be an actor. Discussing the profound change in demeanor she witnessed, Ms. Luster remembers one inmate in particular: Vernon Washington, whose nickname was Vicious. He was a champion boxer, and like the other 70 inmates in the play, serving a life sentence without the possibility of parole. By the end of one performance, which is about redemption, Ms. Luster recalled another inmate referring to Vernon by his nickname. He replied, I dont want to be called Vicious anymore. If you are like me, you might be curious why Ms. Luster did not go for more dynamic scenes on stage. However, she said that after collaborating with the poet C. D. Wright on One Big Self, a book culled from 25,000 portraits of Louisiana prisoners she photographed between 1998 and 2002, she began favoring the still, direct approach. If anything, the people she photographed werent posing for her; they posed for their mothers, girlfriends, husbands, fathers and children they would send her pictures to. They were not giving themselves to me, she said, they were giving themselves to people that they loved. Follow @Andrew Boryga and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementBy YONETTE JOSEPHFEB. 4, 2018
LONDON — The story of a lonely seabird named Nigel who tried to woo a mate that had a heart of stone and died on an uninhabited island off New Zealand has captivated many on social media.Footage of the bird preening and cooing as he  fruitlessly courted a decoy made of concrete has been watched obsessively online. Though his chosen partner kept a cold silence, Nigel, a gannet, won the affection of visitors and conservationists alike.His solitary life shined a light on a yearslong effort by an army of conservationists, devoted volunteers and others to repopulate his species on the island.News of the seabirds death in late January hit the islands caretakers and social media users hard.AdvertisementIt seems like such a wrong ending for Nigel to die now, said Chris Bell, 37, a ranger for the New Zealand Conservation Department, who found the seabird dead in his nest. Just when it looked like it could get better for him.AdvertisementNigel first landed on Mana Island a few years ago (conservationists differ on the year). Mana is about 16 miles, or 25.3 kilometers, northwest of Wellington, the capital. Its also the site of an ambitious effort to establish a flourishing colony of Australasian gannets, which can be found in social clusters off the coast of Australia and New Zealand. But types of gannets have settled all over the world, including in Scotland.In the 1990s, conservationists set up concrete gannets on the western side of Mana to lure real birds. They painted the decoys beaks yellow, the wingtips black, the plumage white. They played seabird calls over solar-powered speakers.On the very first day, two gannets swooped in, Mr. Bell said by phone early Saturday. Conservationists congratulated themselves on their instant success. But soon, the birds flew away, and the project stalled.Then came Nigel.He quickly took a liking to one of the concrete replicas, according to Mr. Bell, who says hes the only full-time employee on the island. Month after month, the bird cozied up to his chosen mate, but she remained aloof.He nested alongside her, said Linda Kerkmeester, vice president of the environmental conservation group Friends of Mana Island. He was seen wooing her by preening her. Nigel was also seen trying to mate with her.A botanist doing a survey for Friends of Mana Island named the bird Nigel no mates because he had no friends.I think the saddest part of this story is what a frustrating existence to be courting this stone bird and getting nothing back, Mr. Bell said. Not getting rejected, not getting encouragement.AdvertisementThough Nigel lived a mostly solitary life on the island, he became the linchpin of the efforts to draw other gannets to Mana.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The colony was one of several seabird projects undertaken by a partnership that included a local tribe, Friends of Mana Island and the Conservation Department to drive gannets to spread out and inhabit other islands.New Zealand was an amazing place for seabirds before humans arrived, Mr. Bell said. Lots of seabirds nested on the land. Bringing seabirds back to the land is important.The seabirds are key to the project because they provide nutrients in the soil for insects and plants to thrive, according to Friends of Mana Island.New Zealand, whose native species have been devastated by predators like rats that were introduced to the country, is aiming for an environmental moon shot. The nation is waging a battle to eradicate all invasive predators by 2050. Several islands have already been cleared.Mana, which was farmed from the 1820s to the 1980s, is pest free. It has been restored with 500,000 native trees, and lizards, seabirds and other native birds have been translocated, Friends of Mana Island said.Mana Island is a great scientific reserve because Mana never had rats, Mr. Bell said. So its a great place to reintroduce species.In December, after years of hoping the Mana seabird project would take off, conservationists redoubled efforts to build up the colony. They repositioned the decoys and moved the speakers so that recorded bird sounds would be carried clear out to sea. The fake birds got fresh paint. And suddenly, Nigel had company.Within 10 days of that, Mr. Bell said, there were three more gannets on the island.The conservationists were elated but cautious, hoping they would stay. But Nigel? He avoided the birds, refusing to leave his concrete mate.AdvertisementThen one day, Mr. Bell found him dead.Broke my heart, one person wrote on the Friends of Mana Islands Facebook page. Teary-eyed, said another.Its really sad he died, Mr. Bell said, but it wasnt for nothing.The bird left a legacy to the island, he said. For all anyone knew, Mr. Bell said, other birds had came before, seen the concrete decoys and said, Ugh, were not fooled by that. But Nigel was fooled.His presence most likely helped draw the three birds there and persuaded them to hang out. Now, the hope is that the new flock will stick around — and breed.These birds interact with each other, he said. And if the birds are communicating with one another, theres a chance.A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: The Life and Death of Nigel.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ROBERT SIMONSONFEB. 2, 2018
Chicago will host a new cocktail conference this spring. Called Chicago Style, it will take place May 7 to 10, after the gala for the James Beard Awards.While the conventions format is familiar — seminars, parties and competitions for bartenders, bar owners, spirit makers and others in the industry — its philosophical mission sets it apart. The three founders, all women, plan to use the gathering to address social problems, including sexism, substance abuse and a lack of diversity, that the bar business has started to grapple with over the past year or so.Its website sums up the mix as equal parts think and drink.Where we will differ from other conferences is the diversity of our panelists and participants, and our inclusion of discussions directly addressing race, gender and sexual identity within these panel topics, said Shelby Allison, an owner of the Chicago tiki bar Lost Lake and one of the events founders.The other two are Caitlin Laman, the beverage director at the Ace Hotel Chicago, where many of the conventions daytime events will take place; and Sharon Bronstein, directing of marketing for the 86 Co., which makes and imports spirits.AdvertisementThe timing of the new convention is fortuitous, just months after the founders of Tales of the Cocktail — long the worlds pre-eminent cocktail conclave, in New Orleans — stepped down after accusations of racial insensitivity. (Tales recently received new leadership: The Solomons, a prominent New Orleans philanthropic family, is set to buy the festival.) News of the Chicago event also arrives as the #MeToo movement continues to gain steam.AdvertisementBut the three partners began making plans early last year, before any of those developments.You know, the time has been right for this conversation for a long time, Ms. Allison said. Yesterday was the right time. Five years ago was the right time. Im so happy that movements like #MeToo are catapulting this into the national conversation. The next step in that conversation is to make workplaces happier, safer and more inclusive.Panels will include one on the cross section between race, gender, sexuality within the hospitality community, said Ashtin Berry, one of the panelists and beverage director of Tokyo Record Bar in New York City. Also on the panel will be Don Lee, a New York bartender and developer of barware who has long been outspoken on social issues.Among the main events will be a party held by Trash Tiki, a group that promotes sustainability and the elimination of waste behind the bar; and the national championship of Speed Rack, a contest for female bartenders started by Ivy Mix and Lynnette Marrero. The enterprise donates about $100,000 every year to breast cancer charities.For Ms. Marrero, the partnership with Chicago Style was a natural. They share the same ideology as Speed Rack in many ways, she said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Allison anticipates that many of the other festivities will take place at Chicago bars and restaurants that have women or people of color or queer people at the helm.Weve been here, said Nandini Khaund, the beverage director at Cindys, a rooftop bar in the Chicago Athletic Association Hotel, who will take part in a panel. We are brown, we are queer and you may not have noticed because the institutions are slower to acknowledge the shift in the paradigm.The conventions intent to do things differently extends to its corporate sponsorship. Critics of cocktail conventions have complained in the past that powerful liquor conglomerates use their influence to set the agenda. Chicago Style will seek backing from the spirits industry, but on its own terms.Were building our programming first and then finding partners that want to support us as we are, Ms. Allison said. Were not shying away from radical conversations.AdvertisementThe conference will be for-profit, with some money going to two charitable organizations: the Chicago Period Project, an organization that distributes feminine hygiene products to people in need; and the James Beard Foundations Women Leadership Programs, which offers mentoring opportunities to women in the restaurant industry.A full schedule of events will be released mid-February, and ticket sales begin March 1.We love the hospitality industry, Ms. Allison said. As an industry, its one that prides itself on making people welcome. Theres no way we can continue to pride ourselves on inclusion if we dont also operate our businesses on that level.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A New Cocktail Conference With a Political Twist.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ROD NORDLAND and FAHIM ABEDFEB. 3, 2018
KABUL, Afghanistan — Nuts come in from Iran and fresh fruit from Pakistan, even though Afghanistan grows both in abundance. Years of bloated foreign aid budgets have produced high salaries, destroying local industries. As a result, about the only thing the country does not import is opium.And books.At a time when book publishers in many countries are struggling, over the last three years those in Afghanistan have been flourishing — and that is despite the countrys chronically low literacy rates: Only two out of five Afghan adults can read. But those who can seem to be doing it with remarkable regularity, both in spite and because of the countrys cyclonic violence, especially recently.In a turbulent, troubled society, curling up with a book has become the best tonic around.I think in any environment, but perhaps especially places at war, book reading creates a pause from day-to-day life and isolates a reader from their surroundings while theyre buried in a book, said Jamshid Hashimi, who runs an online library  and is a co-founder of the Book Club of Afghanistan. This is powerful anywhere, but in a place like Afghanistan, it can be a means of emotional survival.Unsurprisingly, Afghanistans book publishers have capitalized on this. What is more noteworthy is that a major piece of Afghan socioeconomic development is happening without direct foreign aid or foreign advisers.AdvertisementIts an Afghan-owned and Afghan-led process, said Safiullah Nasiri, one of the four brothers who run Aksos, a book publisher that also operates several bookstores in Kabul. His remark was a deliberate play on international community jargon about shifting to Afghan control of institutions dominated by Westerners.AdvertisementIts really an exciting time in the book world here, Mr. Nasiri said. Publishers are all trying to find new books to publish, young people are trying to find new books to read, writers are looking for publishers. Its a very dynamic atmosphere. And its something independent, with no foreign assistance.Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan with a rapidly growing population of more than five million, now has 22 book publishers, many with their own presses, or using the presses at local printing houses. Scores of others are scattered throughout the countrys 34 provinces, even in war-torn areas like Helmand and Kandahar.In the past year, especially, many publishers have been expanding, opening up distribution centers across the country and underwriting either their own bookstores or providing consignments to independent bookstores. Kabul has 60 registered bookstores, according to the government.It was not always so. During the Taliban reign from 1996 to 2001, only two publishers survived: the state publisher and a private company, Aazem Publishing. By the end of 2001, the only independent bookstore was in the Intercontinental Hotel, the site of a deadly attack last month.In the years after the American-led invasion, cheaply printed and brazenly pirated books from Pakistan were as dominant as that countrys fruits and vegetables in the markets of Kabul.Afghanistans new government faced the enormous task of rebuilding the educational system, which had been savaged by decades of civil war, followed by five years of a Taliban regime that closed schools and destroyed foreign-language books. That meant millions of new textbooks, which initially were printed in Pakistan. But as relations with that country soured, the government steered those textbook contracts to a few major Afghan publishers.Foreign aid underwrote the school system, so the textbook business jump-started the book publishing industry. Because millions of textbooks had to be printed in a short period of time, Aazem and a few other companies invested in their own presses, which went largely idle once the school publishing season was over. Then the new publishers began translating Western books from English into Dari and Pashto, the countrys two main languages.AdvertisementOther publishers sprung up, renting the bigger companies presses.There was such a curiosity and thirst to know about the world and how people think about Afghanistan, said Davood Moradian, director general of the Afghan Institute for Strategic Studies, a research organization whose picturesque ancient campus, the Fort of Nine Towers, is a favored venue for book parties. The book industry is a growing phenomenon to try to satisfy that thirst.The first locally published books were nonfiction titles about Afghanistan, by Western authors, and they sold so well, there was a rush into the business. Books like Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the C.I.A., Afghanistan and Bin Laden From the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001, by Steve Coll, and The Envoy: From Kabul to the White House, My Journey Through a Turbulent World, by Zalmay Khalilzad, hit the best-seller lists here.There was this huge pent-up demand from so many years without new books, said Dr. Ajmal Aazem, a pediatrician whose father founded the publishing house that bears their name. The Aazem company is publishing books as fast as it can, limited only by a shortage of qualified translators from English into local languages. Aazems 2017-18 goal is to print three new titles a day, 1,100 a year — a huge number for any publisher.The publishing house is festooned with life-size posters of recent book covers, and the bookshop is full of volumes in artfully arranged helical piles or displayed on the walls with English and Persian versions opening from right and left, side by side. The floor in the middle of the sales room has been raised to accommodate the presses on the floor below, making a sort of platform with comfortable armchairs.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Because editing a book in its original language can be much faster than translating it, the bigger publishers have begun commissioning original work as well, for the first time in many years. Aksos has even started a sort of Afghan version of Amazon, selling books through its Facebook page and then delivering them the same day by couriers for the equivalent of about 50 cents a book in Kabul. Afghans often lack internet connections or personal computers at home, but educated young people usually have Facebook on their smartphones.Piracy remains endemic. On a recent day, even some of the titles in Aksos own busy, flagship bookstore were pirated copies of popular books.Publishers are worried. On a lot of our books, well sell 1,000 copies, and the pirates will sell 4,000 copies of the same book at lower prices, Dr. Aazem said. The government needs to do more to stop this.Government officials have started enforcing the countrys long-ignored copyright laws, according to Sayed Fazel Hossain Sancharaki, who is in charge of publishing at the Ministry of Information and Culture. In the last four months weve had four or five copyright cases, he said. One photocopy shop was closed recently by the government for running off copies of printed books.Realizing that The Envoy, the 2016 memoir by Mr. Khalilzad, the Afghan-American who was the United States ambassador to both Afghanistan and Iraq, would be a big seller here, Mr. Aazem rushed to acquire the Dari and Pashto rights. He was determined to offer a better-quality book at a narrow markup and flood the market before the pirates could do so. But Aksos managed to print a Pashto version first, without rights to it, selling 1,000 copies in three days, he said.AdvertisementMr. Nasiri, the owner of Aksos, which is also translating a new title every week or so, denied that his company printed pirated books. And he, also, complained about piracy. We do have copyright law in Afghanistan, but no one seems to know that, he said. Its a big, serious problem.Aksos recently began commissioning original books, too, including Baghdadi Pir, a historical novel in Pashto about a British spy in the 1920s during the time of King Amanullah.But the publishers big sellers are self-help books, particularly in the how-to-get-rich genre. Ivanka Trumps Women Who Work is also popular in translation, particularly among female readers.Mr. Nasiri admitted that his bookstores stock many pirated volumes, even if they do not pirate books themselves.We are actually against that, but since almost all books are pirated, we have no option but to accept pirated copies and sell them, he said. If we dont do that, it will make business hard for us. This is happening all over Asia.The most recent publishing sensation in Kabul also became its biggest piracy scandal: Afghan Politics: The Inside Story, a two-volume book set by Rangin Dadfar Spanta, former President Hamid Karzais national security adviser and a Henry Kissinger-like figure here. Aazem Publishing sold thousands of copies in its first few weeks in print, though it is pricey by Afghan standards, at $15 a set. Its V.I.P.-studded book launch was held at the Fort of the Nine Towers in November, and an English translation is due from Aazem this year.We invested heavily in that book and printed it beautifully, then kept the cost as low as possible to defeat the pirates, Dr. Aazem said. Promotional posters were distributed to bookstores, showing the avuncular Mr. Spanta, and billboard space and airtime were purchased to advertise it.Afghan Politics was out for about a month, however, when an electronic file of the book began circulating on Afghan social media accounts.Furious, the publishers at Aazem closed their doors in protest, hanging black curtains in all the windows and idling the presses until the government promised to pursue book pirates. Theyre still waiting.Jawad Sukhanyar and Mujib Mashal contributed reporting.Follow Rod Nordland on Twitter: @rodnordland. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Though Most Afghans Cant Read, Their Book Trade Is Booming.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Timothy EganWell before The Wall Street Journal reported that a porn star with the meteorological name of Stormy Daniels was paid $130,000 to keep quiet about sex with Donald Trump, it was clear that a bigger and more crass proposition would be emerging from the White House.Going into the midterm elections, Trump is offering this deal to his supporters: Say nothing about the lies, the bullying, the accusations of sexual misconduct from more than a dozen women, the undermining of the rule of law, the abdication of basic decency — and in turn he will make you rich.Essentially, its a payoff. Trump himself has framed it this way. When asked about his coming health exam last month, he said, It better go well, otherwise the stock market will not be happy. He used the same phrase when talking about his hard-line position on immigration.Both Barack Obama and Bill Clinton oversaw spectacular gains in the stock market — among the best in history. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 227 percent during Clintons eight years and 149 percent under Obama.Yet, neither of those men held the market out as hostage to a backward agenda and a deranged personality. Trump is running a bottom-line presidency — as soulless as a Kremlin bot on Facebook — in which people who know better are asked to stay quiet in exchange for a short-term payoff.Modern presidents, dating at least to Ronald Reagan, have urged voters to ask one question going into pivotal elections: Are you better off than you were before? Its a reasonable standard. But it has never been the leverage for allowing a democracy to collapse.You heard some uplifting words during the State of the Union address, words with all the staying power of vapor from a sewage vent. But a more honest assessment of what this presidency represents came from Trump when he was in his element, surrounded by Mar-a-Lago cronies. You all just got a lot richer, he told a bejeweled and pink-faced crowd just a few hours after signing the $1.5 trillion tax cut in December.Even as Trump spoke before Congress on Tuesday, he monetized the speech, with donors paying to have their name live-streamed across a Trump campaign web page.A cartoon in Politico showed a naked Trump with a kings crown and a golf club walking down a red carpet. I know, I know, one man says to another. Just keep thinking about your stock portfolio.The question for those yet to join the enablers is: Whats the price — a record stock market in which 10 percent of Americans own 84 percent of the market wealth, a tax cut that burdens the working poor in years to come — for saying nothing?Evangelical Christians were among the first to sign on to a Stormy Daniels proposition. In the infamous words of Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, Trump gets a do-over for the infidelity allegation. Yes, because nothing says family values like a thrice-married man who allegedly cheats on his latest wife just after she gives birth to their son. And Pat Robertson, the mush-headed moralist who still fogs up many a television screen with his gaseous utterances, told Trump last summer, Im so proud of everything youre doing.For these self-appointed guardians of the soul, the bargain is bigger than 30 pieces of silver: Its a promise that Trump will continue to protect their tax-exempt empires, in the name of religious freedom.For Republicans in Congress, the pact is more consequential. They will ignore the pleadings of career law enforcement officials in order to stoke fantasies of a deep-state coup against the president. These politicians are counting on a base that will look the other way as they undermine Robert Muellers investigation into Russian tampering with the election.Its a good bet. After Trump called the American justice system a joke and a laughingstock, after he fired the F.B.I. director because he would not pledge loyalty to him, after he told another top lawman that his wife was a loser, after he referred to members of the intelligence community as political hacks, it was all quiet on the Republican front.He can falsely say that his State of the Union speech drew the highest audience in history — in fact, it ranked ninth since 1993 — because this president has told more than 2,000 lies in a year and hasnt been called out for them by the people who signed on to silence.But what happens if the bargain crumbles? What if the market tanks — as the Dow did in losing more than 500 points a few days ago? Do the sycophants bail? Or do they hold out for something more — like the lobbyists now drafting legislation and gutting regulations that affect the companies that pay them?Beware, those of you who have made your deal with the Stormy Daniels presidency. You can take your settlement money — as the people who signed up for the fraudulent Trump University did — but you still got suckered.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementHe chose the sport, but he did not choose brain damage.By EMILY KELLYFEB. 2, 2018
My husband, Rob Kelly, is a retired N.F.L. player. After five seasons as a safety beginning in the late 1990s, four with the New Orleans Saints and one with the New England Patriots, he sustained an injury to a nerve between his neck and shoulder during training camp that ended his career. By the time he retired in 2002 at 28, he had been playing tackle football for about two decades.Rob had no idea, however, that all those years of playing would have such serious consequences. Safeties are the last line of defense and among the hardest hitters in the game. One tackle he attempted while playing for the Saints was so damaging, he doesnt remember the rest of the game. He got up, ran off the field and tried to go back in — as an offensive player. He knows this only because people told him the next day.Professional football is a brutal sport, he knew that. But he loved it anyway. And he accepted the risks of bruises and broken bones. What he didnt know was that along with a battered body can come a battered mind.For decades, it was not well understood that football can permanently harm the brain. Otherwise, many parents would most likely not have signed their boys up to play. But this reality was obscured by the N.F.L.s top medical experts, who for years had denied any link between the sport and long-term degenerative brain diseases like chronic traumatic encephalopathy.AdvertisementThat started to change in late 2009 when, for the first time, the N.F.L. publicly acknowledged that concussions can have long-term effects. In 2016, a top league official admitted that there is a connection between football and C.T.E., which has now been found in the brains of more than 100 deceased players. But for Rob, and countless other players, those admissions came too late.AdvertisementWhen I first met him in 2007, Rob had this gentle, endearing way about him that caught me off guard. I had never watched a full game of football in my life, but still believed the stereotypes: Players were tough and abrasive. He was neither. I had never met a man who was so sensitive and tenderhearted. I loved that he wasnt afraid to be vulnerable and to show tears.When we married in 2009, I already knew he was an amazing father. He could play dollhouse with my stepdaughter for hours without a hint of boredom. This continued when we had two children of our own. When our son was born and I was focused on taking care of a baby, he would bathe the girls, brush and blow-dry their (tangled!) hair, then put them to bed. Afterward he would wash the dishes. He brought me coffee in bed each morning. I was spoiled rotten.But since I had known him, he had trouble sleeping, and he has been prone to mood swings and depression. In 2010, things got worrisome, so I arranged for him to be evaluated by neurologists so that he could apply for disability benefits. We traveled from Ohio, where we were living at the time, to North Carolina for full cognitive evaluations and testing. There were seemingly endless amounts of paperwork and record keeping.I was right to be concerned.Over time, I had started to notice changes. But this was different and, around 2013, things had become much more frightening.He lost weight. It seemed like one day, out of the blue, he stopped being hungry. And often he would forget to eat. Id find full bowls of cereal left around the house, on bookshelves or the fireplace mantel. The more friends and family commented on his gaunt frame, the more panicked I became. By 2016, he had shrunk to 157 pounds. Thats right, my 6-foot-2 football-player husband weighed 157 pounds (down from around 200 when he was in the N.F.L.). People were visibly shocked when we told them he had played the game professionally.Besides damage resulting from football-related concussions, my husband has never had a diagnosed brain injury. Hes never been in a car accident or fallen off a roof. He never took steroids. After struggling in retirement with alcohol abuse for about six years, off and on, he hasnt had a drink in eight years. And hes only 43.When you live with someone with brain damage, you become highly attuned to your environment and develop an intimate relationship with your senses and intuition. Your hearing becomes excellent, almost unbearably keen, like a movie character who develops supernatural abilities overnight. Robs mood swings scare me sometimes, and I always have to be in tune with early signs of his agitation. I try to protect him from stress so he wont be overwhelmed. Its exhausting.AdvertisementOur fights went in bizarre circles and were never resolved. He would be irrationally upset about one thing but would quickly lose track and begin rambling about something that had no connection to the topic at hand. Every argument we had ended with me thinking: This isnt normal. This is not what couples fight about. Somethings wrong.And the arguments were always the same. It was as if our lives were on a loop, like some song thats been left on repeat for years. That sort of repetition has a tremendous ability to make you feel like youre going insane. And maybe, you wonder, you are.He was losing touch with reality and was getting more and more paranoid. The first time he accused me of stealing loose change from his nightstand I was speechless. And when I told him how illogical it would be for me to do such a thing, he looked at me with even more suspicion. But his paranoia didnt end there. It would leave me with a heaviness in my chest that made me sob without warning.He went from being a devoted and loving father and husband to someone who felt like a ghost in our home. For a couple of months one winter he was so depressed and detached, he couldnt muster up the energy to speak. My questions went unanswered until I simply stopped asking them. The silence was unnerving.So we were relieved when, in January 2013, we were told that the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle N.F.L. player retirement plan and supplemental disability plan had awarded him total and permanent disability benefits. His benefits were listed as degenerative, which establishes that his disability arises out of league football activities and had manifested within 15 years of his last season. He is entitled to monthly payments for the rest of his life. (These payments are separate from the estimated $1 billion settlement of concussion-related lawsuits with thousands of retired players, for which we have registered.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The examining clinician found that repeated concussion is very likely to have caused Mr. Kellys neuropsychological dysfunction, and also that his prior alcohol abuse may have been a factor. But he has not had a single drop of alcohol for eight years, and his condition continues to deteriorate.After years of little to no sleep, he alternated between sleeping either three hours a night or 20. Id wake up to find every blind and curtain in the house closed and Rob sitting on the sofa with a blank expression on his face. He no longer felt comfortable driving, refused to leave the house and cut off contact with everyone.Specific details about how he wanted his funeral to be, and his demand that he be cremated, were brought up with excruciating frequency. One particularly dark time, he went five days without eating anything; he drank only water and a few swigs of chocolate milk. He was suffering deeply and barely surviving. My love and affection seemed to offer no comfort or solace. I felt helpless.It wasnt until I joined a private Facebook group of more than 2,400 women, all connected in some way to current or former N.F.L. players, that I realized I wasnt alone.AdvertisementOur stories are eerily similar, our loved ones symptoms almost identical: the bizarre behavior I had tried to ignore, the obsessive laundering of old clothes — our washing machine ran from morning till night.It was comforting and terrifying all at the same time. Why did so many of us see the same strange behaviors? Our neurologist said they do it to calm their brains, one friend told me.Symptoms consistent with C.T.E. are a recurring topic in the Facebook group. They include memory loss, confusion, impaired judgment, aggression, depression and anxiety. These problems become apparent sometimes years or even decades after a player hangs up his helmet.One woman may write a post, desperate and afraid of the man her husband is becoming — the rage, mood swings, depression, memory loss. A man so drastically different from the one she once knew. Hundreds of comments will follow, woman after woman confirming that she is going through the exact same thing.While the symptoms and behaviors are telling, C.T.E. can be conclusively diagnosed only posthumously, because it requires the close examination of brain tissue. But many of us, including me, are convinced our husbands suffer from the disease. We try to comfort one another with the same words: Just know youre not alone.I dont think the public has any idea how widespread this problem truly is. Rob and I hope that, in telling our story, we might help other families. There are likely to be hundreds of wives and partners of football players, maybe more, who live a life like mine. Sadly, there is a feeling of shame among those affected, in both the men and their families.But who these men have become is not who they are, and I write that with conviction. The symptoms they display are beyond their control and occur through no fault of their own. These men chose football, but they didnt choose brain damage.I used to read all the articles about C.T.E., all the stories about football players committing suicide. Id skim the comments to see remarks like: They know what they signed up for and Of course football is bad for the brain, everyone knows that.But when all those big hits happened and the fans cheered, did they cheer despite knowing a man just greatly increased his risk for dementia? Was anyone worried about an A.L.S. diagnosis or a C.T.E.-related suicide at 40 after their favorite player suffered repeated blows to the head on the field? No, they cheered and they celebrated because they didnt know. And neither did we.Emily Kelly lives in Boulder, Colo.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. A version of this op-ed appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page SR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Football Destroyed My Husbands Mind.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas KristofIn Missouri, an acolyte of President Trump is running for the U.S. Senate and denouncing manophobic hell-bent feminist she-devils.The candidate, Courtland Sykes, a conservative Republican, is seeking to oust a moderate Democrat, Claire McCaskill. That diatribe by Sykes is worth quoting as a window into the backlash against #MeToo and empowered women:I dont buy into radical feminisms crazy definition of modern womanhood and I never did, Sykes wrote on his campaigns Facebook page. They made it up to suit their own nasty, snake-filled heads.I dont buy the non-stop feminization campaign against manhood, he added. I want to come home to a home cooked dinner at six every night, one that [my fiancée] fixes and one that I expect one day to have daughters learn to fix.Speaking of those daughters, Sykes clarifies: I dont want them [to] grow up into career obsessed banshees who … become nail-biting manophobic hell-bent feminist she-devils.Sykes, who has not been endorsed by Donald Trump and who seems unlikely to be elected, says that young women are turning against feminism because of distaste for Hillary Clinton: They look at her personal lifes wreckage and didnt want to become like her.Really? Sykes doesnt seem to acknowledge the personal wreckage of his idol, our president, a serial adulterer who appears to have cheated on his three wives. Sykes is not alone in his myopia there: A new Quinnipiac poll finds that 72 percent of Republicans consider Trump a good role model for children.(Its tough to know whether Betrayed Wife No. 3 agrees; she wore to her hubbys State of the Union address a white pantsuit of the kind that Clinton made a symbol of feminism.)Progress on womens rights has been enormous since I was a kid and Margaret Chase Smith was the only female senator (she had to line up with tourists for bathroom breaks, as there was then no restroom designated for female senators). As recently as 1987, only half of Americans said that it was always wrong for a man to beat his wife with a belt or stick.Yet in recent years, there were some signs that progress might be stalling — and then Trump galvanized feminism again. Many women, and some men, were horrified that a man who boasted of sexual assault could be elected president. An astonishing 390 women are now running for Congress.Men like Sykes reflect the other dimension, the powerful backlash fueled by a combination of male resentment, anxiety at social change and a newfound freedom in the Age of Trump to say things that were previously beyond the pale.Backlashes go way back, of course. After Mary Wollstonecraft published her Vindication of the Rights of Woman in 1792, laying the groundwork for discussions of gender equity, Horace Walpole mocked her as a hyena in petticoats, and she was savaged for her whoredoms.Flash forward, and Breitbart reflected the same ethos when it published an article declaring Birth Control Makes Women Unattractive and Crazy. But this isnt just a battle of the sexes, and one reason for hope is that youth and education are sometimes better predictors of attitudes toward womens rights than gender is. Last year for the first time, Gallup found that a majority of Americans dont care whether their boss is a man or a woman; Americans under 35 actually prefer a female boss over a male boss by 14 percentage points.The most important trend in the world, I believe, is the empowerment of women. This is transforming society and the global economy (although researchers believe that the world would still be $28 trillion richer if gender gaps were bridged).Why is a man writing this column? Frankly, because womens rights arent just a womans issue, any more than civil rights were just a black issue. We all have an interest in a more fair society — and if only women speak up for gender equity, they may be dismissed as shrill hyenas.What matters above all are policies. That means pushing for easier family leave, better child care, more women on boards, and cracking down on sex trafficking and domestic violence. It means helping teenage girls avoid pregnancy, providing locations at work for moms to express milk, and confronting the general tendency to defer to male self-confidence rather than female expertise. It means a determined effort to hold accountable sexual predators even when theyre not Hollywood figures but simply factory supervisors or shift managers at a McDonalds.Of course there will be disagreements about policies or about where to draw lines — about what to make of Aziz Ansari and how to distinguish between the Harvey Weinsteins and the Al Frankens. But those controversies are secondary.The fundamental fault line today is between those working toward broader opportunity and those yearning for a mythic past before feminists developed nasty, snake-filled heads. To be on the right side of history, we should all, men and women alike, stand on the side of the she-devils.I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on Twitter (@NickKristof).OpinionNicholas KristofOpinionNicholas KristofOpinionNicholas KristofAdvertisement
Teenagers in The Times By                     
 SHANNON DOYNE
 
FEB. 2, 2018
Welcome to 2018s first edition of Teenagers in The Times, a roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com. We publish a new edition on the first Friday of each month.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________EducationFor One Baltimore School, 7 Killings in Just 15 MonthsThe city is trying everything it can to reverse a soaring homicide rate. But its fundamental problems keep getting in the way.Number of Students Taking the SAT Jumped by More Than Half, City SaysNew York offered the tests for free and on a school day to help close the racial gap in who sits for the college exams.AdvertisementWhy Its So Hard to Calculate What Youll Pay for CollegeMany colleges offer discounts via a system thats come to be known as merit aid. But its not easy to decipher, as a trip to four schools reveals.AdvertisementAs Flow of Foreign Students Wanes, U.S. Universities Feel the StingColleges have cut programs amid a drop in international enrollment tied to several factors, including more restrictive immigration policies.No College Kid Needs a Water Park to StudyTrustees must rein in frivolous spending at public universities.Fraternity Is Banned From Pennsylvania After Students Hazing DeathA Baruch College freshman died after taking part in a fraternity hazing, and the fraternity was convicted of aggravated assault and involuntary manslaughter.More College Students Seem to Be Majoring in PerfectionismNew data indicates that perfectionism, especially when influenced by social media, has increased by 33 percent since 1989.Online Courses Are Harming the Students Who Need the Most HelpOnline education helps school districts that need to save money make do with fewer teachers. But there is mounting evidence that struggling students suffer.Teaching Teens the Financial RopesA nonprofit offers financial literacy lessons to young people.Most States Dont Require Specific Financial Literacy ClassesA new report gave only Alabama, Missouri, Tennessee, Utah and Virginia an A for their efforts. Theres a debate on how best to teach the subject.AdvertisementTransgender Students Discrimination Suit Is Settled for $800,000Ashton Whitaker said that he had been forbidden from using boys bathrooms and felt degraded by administrators at his high school in Wisconsin.Yales Most Popular Class Ever: HappinessWith nearly 1,200 students signed up, a course that tells students how to lead more satisfying lives may be the largest in university history._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessShe Ran From the Cut, and Helped Thousands of Other Girls Escape, TooNice Lengete started a program in Kenya to create new rites of passage to replace female genital cutting and has helped 15,000 girls avoid the ritual.California Girls Escape From Human Depravity Led to Rescue of 12 SiblingsAfter a teenager successfully alerted the authorities to her familys dark secret, her parents, David A. Turpin and Louise A. Turpin, were charged with dozens of counts of torture and abuse.Treatment Offers Hope for Imprisoned California SiblingsCases of children isolated and abused by parents are rare but not unheard-of, say experts. Many recover.Can an Algorithm Tell When Kids Are in Danger?Child protective agencies are haunted when they fail to save kids. Pittsburgh officials believe a new data analysis program is helping them make better judgment calls.What He Did on His Summer Break: Exposed a Global Security FlawNathan Ruser, an Australian college student, discovered that a fitness app revealed the locations of military sites around the world. Now he has to decide what hes doing after graduation.Wales Prepares to Ban Physical Punishment of ChildrenThe move, which is the subject of a 12-week consultation, would match plans in Scotland and laws in more than 50 other countries.Advertisement2 Die as Pakistanis Protest Over Girls KillingHundreds protested in outrage over the death of the girl, one of about a dozen children killed in the city of Kasur over the past two years.Boko Haram Video Is Said to Show Captured Girls From ChibokIn the video, a girl who claims she is among the kidnapped students from Chibok says she is happy being with the fighters of the extremist group. Her identity was not confirmed.Nigeria Rescues Another Student From 2014 Chibok KidnappingThe student was among nearly 300 girls kidnapped from a school during exam week. While many of the girls have been released, dozens are still missing.1,000 Danes Accused of Child Pornography for Sharing Video of TeensThe video, spread through Facebook Messenger, was legal to make, but illegal to distribute. Many of those charged are teenagers themselves.Knife Attack at Russian School Leaves at Least 12 WoundedTwo masked teenagers broke into a fourth-grade classroom in Perm, the latest in a series of assaults that have prompted a debate about school security.School Shooting in Kentucky Was Nations 11th of Year. It Was Jan. 23.When two students were killed by gunfire in Benton, Ky., it was at least the 11th shooting so far this year on school property.After a Turbulent Childhood, on a Path to a Healthier LifeAt 18, Charles Louis quit the psychotropic medications he had been prescribed in foster care. After stretches of homelessness, he now has a place of his own to share with his pets.AdvertisementSeeing More Than Just Another Missing Teenager From the BronxThe frequent disappearances of Desiree Santanas daughter have put a strain on the familys finances and the amount of time she has for her other five children.New Jersey Teenager in Custody After 4 Are Found Shot to Death in HomeThe boy, 16, was held by the police after they discovered his mother, father and sister and a family acquaintance shot dead in their home.My Kids First Lesson in RealpolitikThe author of this Opinion essay writes, Children dont live in a bubble, so why do we try to shelter them from conflict?_________Science, Health, Technology and SportsNorth Dakotas Loss of Division I Womens Hockey Leaves a VoidMore than a decade of gains in the states youth and high school girls programs are endangered, and players who aspired to the team are heartbroken.A Teenagers Basketball Dream Is Size XXXXXLWhats life like at 7 feet 7 inches? Robert Bobroczkyi, a 17-year-old basketball prospect, gives us a view of his world.Oklahomas Trae Young, the Superstar Nobody Saw ComingFreshman Trae Young began the year unheralded. Now he leads in points and assists and has single-handedly made Oklahoma-Kansas a marquee matchup.Marta Kostyuk, 15, Reaches 3rd Round of Australian OpenTheres no doubt the Ukrainian teenager can play at a high level, but shes also learning to deal with the high expectations that come with early success.AdvertisementMore Than 150 Women Described Sexual Abuse by Lawrence Nassar. Will Their Testimony Help Them Heal?The psychological effects of disclosing a traumatic secret — of telling your story — depend on the audience, the nature of the trauma and other factors.U.S.A. Gymnastics Still Values Medals More Than GirlsCorporations like AT&T are doing more to reckon with the abuse than the sports governing body, states the writer of this Opinion essay, a former rhythmic gymnast on the United States National Team.Gymnast Maggie Nichols Wants Everyone to Know About Larry Nassars AbuseMs. Nichols, who is ranked first nationwide on the collegiate level, said she was sexually abused by the team doctor and reported it in 2015.One After Another, Athletes Face Larry Nassar and Recount Sexual AbuseThe Olympic gymnasts Jordyn Wieber and Aly Raisman are among dozens of women speaking in a Michigan court about sexual abuse from the former team doctor.Hits to the Head May Result in Immediate Brain DamageWhen a teenager is hit in the head, his brain can begin to show signs, within days, of the kind of damage associated with degenerative brain disease.Raising a Transgender ChildOne family explains their childs change to her true self.Young Women Are Using A.D.H.D. Drugs in Greater Numbers, C.D.C. ReportsSince 2003, the percentage of women filling prescriptions for drugs like Ritalin has increased nearly fivefold in some age groups.Turn Off Messenger Kids, Health Experts Plead to FacebookIn a letter organized by the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, dozens of health experts say the new app preys on a vulnerable group.AdvertisementVaping Can Be Addictive and May Lure Teenagers to Smoking, Science Panel ConcludesA report from the National Academy of Sciences said that e-cigarettes are safer than smoking, but not quite safe, and may cause teens to take up tobacco.We Need Bodice-Ripper Sex EdRomance novels taught me that sexual pleasure was something women could not just hope for but insist upon, states the writer of this Opinion essay._________Arts, Media and CultureA Rap Video for a Biology Class Was His Demo ReelJulien Turner, 20, is a budding filmmaker at Morehouse College, where hes also a linebacker on the football team.A Versace Model, Rapper and ASAP Mob Collaborator. And Hes Only 19.For Judah Lang, a multitalented performer who grew up in SoHo, creativity seems to run in the family.Miss Golden Globe Is No More. Long Live the Golden Globe Ambassador.Simone Garcia Johnson, the daughter of Dwayne Johnson, takes over this year, with a new name for the ceremonial gig.In Saturday Church, Coming of Age, and Coming OutLuka Kain is a find in Saturday Church, as a gay teen seeking acceptance and friendship.In Freak Show, the Boy Who Would be Homecoming QueenThe film, directed by Trudie Styler, is another high-school tale told in too-broad strokes.Onstage, Escaping the Pain of Her ChildhoodAfter being removed from her aunt and uncles home at 15, Cearia Scipio bounced among foster homes. She found freedom in acting and taking on someone elses problems.AdvertisementDebutantes and DivasSome traditions never fade. The Debutante Cotillion and Christmas Ball was held on Dec. 22 at Cipriani Wall Street.Thats What Ze SaidI use whatever pronoun my students choose for themselves, simply out of respect for them, states the English professor who wrote this Opinion essay.7 Young People on Their Views of GenderAnnie Tritt has been photographing young people whose sense of gender goes beyond the binary norm. These are a few of their thoughts and pictures.Tell Us What to Call the Generation After Millennials (Please)If youre an American who is 22 or younger, wed like to hear from you.We Asked Generation Z to Pick a Name. It Wasnt Generation Z.Thousands of people 22 and under (and many older people) weighed in on the most important question of the coming century._________Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Hungry City By                     
LIGAYA MISHAN

FEB. 1, 2018

CreditEmon Hassan for The New York Times        At Serengeti Kitchen in East Harlem, the escargots are small and dainty, demure analogues to the giant African land snails — large enough to spill over the palm of your hand — that are eaten as hors doeuvres in West Africa.Doughba Caranda-Martin III, the chef, braises the escargots slowly in a stew of tomatoes and smoked peppers, including musky black pepper from the Gulf of Guinea and wild handpicked Madagascar pepper, floral with a whiff of camphor. Just before serving, he adds half a teaspoon of crushed Ghanaian kpakpo shito peppers, ever so slightly less incendiary than Scotch bonnets. The snails emerge tender, with a lovely heat that curls up the back of your throat.Mr. Caranda-Martin was born in Liberia to a family steeped in politics (one grandfather was a senator) and spent much of his childhood on his grandmothers farm in Grand Bassa, south of the capital, Monrovia. He was 15 when the First Liberian Civil War began, in 1989. Bullets were flying everywhere, he said. Alone, separated from his family, he made his way east to a refugee camp in Ivory Coast and eventually found sanctuary in the United States.He earned recognition as a visual artist and started a nonprofit organization to send medical aid to West Africa. But he never forgot his grandmothers lessons in botany or his familys history of growing tea and coffee. In 2013, he opened a tearoom, Serengeti Teas and Spices, in central Harlem, to give the world something else to know about Africa, he said. Serengeti Kitchen followed this November, about a half-mile east.Time bends here; a meal might take four hours, even when the dining room is empty. The kitchen is still finding its footing — or, perhaps, you are being asked to pause and learn a different pace of life.AdvertisementIts a beautiful place to do so, the narrow dining room glowing from burnished lamps and red Moroccan lanterns, with indigenous and contemporary African art sharing the walls. Geometric cutouts perforate the restaurants facade, an allusion to Dogon architecture in Mali, repeated indoors and on the ceiling over a semi-enclosed back garden.AdvertisementEvery few months, the menu will shift to explore different regions of the continent. For now, Liberia is its heart. One dish harks back to summers on the farm in Grand Bassa, where Mr. Caranda-Martin picked leaves off the sweet potato vines. Decanted palm oil is brought to high heat until it loses its blood-red hue and turns the color of high noon. Then sweet potato leaves, dark and iron-rich, relax in the pan, soaking up the oil, and come out a creamy pulp with a faint smack of garlic.Another touch of memoir: a jelly jar filled with duck liver pâté, which Mr. Caranda-Martins grandmother used to make and call liver butter. (Ducks wandered the farm.) Its simple and forthright, accented by rosemary, cloves and Ethiopian sea salt, with sesame oil for extra velvet.In his art, Mr. Caranda-Martin has used heirloom African textiles as canvases, painting over them, refusing to allow the past to remain static. With food, too, he nods to tradition but faces forward.A thick soup of zucchini and bunapi mushrooms is cooked down with muan-muan (fermented fish) in a broth of forest bark, melding sea and earth. Roasted guinea hen, customarily served whole, is here represented by its best part, thighs, deboned and tied with string to hold in the juices, and half-submerged in a deep, mellow stew of sweet African peppers.No meal is complete without tea, served in a glass kettle thats perched over a candle to keep it warm. Each has a story, like one that Mr. Caranda-Martin described as drunk by fishermen, composed of wache (red sorghum leaves) and root grass from the West African coast.For dessert, hot chocolate is inflamed by dehydrated Scotch bonnets; truffles are laced with suya spice, a flare-up of ginger, chile and kuli-kuli (spiced groundnut paste), more often slapped on meat before grilling. Other treats are hidden on the tea list, including apple cake, baked by an aunt and so rich its almost damp, and a lush pudding born of a childhood prank of throwing kelewele (ginger-fried plantains) in a blender.There are more stories. And to book the $65 tasting menu, which features rarer ingredients like loofah, a gourd from Botswana, you must call ahead and share your own. We have to have a conversation, like Grandma and Grandpa when youre coming over, Mr. Caranda-Martin said. We need to have a sense of who you are.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.22 East 125th Street(Madison Avenue)Harlemserengetikitchen.comRecommended Dishes Sweet potato leaf stew; pepper escargots; saffron bean mini pot; roasted guinea hen; yellow snapper fillet and pepper stew; apple cake.Price $$ (moderate)Open Tuesday to Sunday for lunch and dinner.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access The dining room is three steps down from the sidewalk; a ramp is available if you call ahead. The restroom is equipped with handrail.
                This information was last updated: Feb. 2, 2018 A version of this review appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Nostalgia for Liberia Fills the Menu.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas KristofIn Missouri, an acolyte of President Trump is running for the U.S. Senate and denouncing manophobic hell-bent feminist she-devils.The candidate, Courtland Sykes, a conservative Republican, is seeking to oust a moderate Democrat, Claire McCaskill. That diatribe by Sykes is worth quoting as a window into the backlash against #MeToo and empowered women:I dont buy into radical feminisms crazy definition of modern womanhood and I never did, Sykes wrote on his campaigns Facebook page. They made it up to suit their own nasty, snake-filled heads.I dont buy the non-stop feminization campaign against manhood, he added. I want to come home to a home cooked dinner at six every night, one that [my fiancée] fixes and one that I expect one day to have daughters learn to fix.Speaking of those daughters, Sykes clarifies: I dont want them [to] grow up into career obsessed banshees who … become nail-biting manophobic hell-bent feminist she-devils.Sykes, who has not been endorsed by Donald Trump and who seems unlikely to be elected, says that young women are turning against feminism because of distaste for Hillary Clinton: They look at her personal lifes wreckage and didnt want to become like her.Really? Sykes doesnt seem to acknowledge the personal wreckage of his idol, our president, a serial adulterer who appears to have cheated on his three wives. Sykes is not alone in his myopia there: A new Quinnipiac poll finds that 72 percent of Republicans consider Trump a good role model for children.(Its tough to know whether Betrayed Wife No. 3 agrees; she wore to her hubbys State of the Union address a white pantsuit of the kind that Clinton made a symbol of feminism.)Progress on womens rights has been enormous since I was a kid and Margaret Chase Smith was the only female senator (she had to line up with tourists for bathroom breaks, as there was then no restroom designated for female senators). As recently as 1987, only half of Americans said that it was always wrong for a man to beat his wife with a belt or stick.Yet in recent years, there were some signs that progress might be stalling — and then Trump galvanized feminism again. Many women, and some men, were horrified that a man who boasted of sexual assault could be elected president. An astonishing 390 women are now running for Congress.Men like Sykes reflect the other dimension, the powerful backlash fueled by a combination of male resentment, anxiety at social change and a newfound freedom in the Age of Trump to say things that were previously beyond the pale.Backlashes go way back, of course. After Mary Wollstonecraft published her Vindication of the Rights of Woman in 1792, laying the groundwork for discussions of gender equity, Horace Walpole mocked her as a hyena in petticoats, and she was savaged for her whoredoms.Flash forward, and Breitbart reflected the same ethos when it published an article declaring Birth Control Makes Women Unattractive and Crazy. But this isnt just a battle of the sexes, and one reason for hope is that youth and education are sometimes better predictors of attitudes toward womens rights than gender is. Last year for the first time, Gallup found that a majority of Americans dont care whether their boss is a man or a woman; Americans under 35 actually prefer a female boss over a male boss by 14 percentage points.The most important trend in the world, I believe, is the empowerment of women. This is transforming society and the global economy (although researchers believe that the world would still be $28 trillion richer if gender gaps were bridged).Why is a man writing this column? Frankly, because womens rights arent just a womans issue, any more than civil rights were just a black issue. We all have an interest in a more fair society — and if only women speak up for gender equity, they may be dismissed as shrill hyenas.What matters above all are policies. That means pushing for easier family leave, better child care, more women on boards, and cracking down on sex trafficking and domestic violence. It means helping teenage girls avoid pregnancy, providing locations at work for moms to express milk, and confronting the general tendency to defer to male self-confidence rather than female expertise. It means a determined effort to hold accountable sexual predators even when theyre not Hollywood figures but simply factory supervisors or shift managers at a McDonalds.Of course there will be disagreements about policies or about where to draw lines — about what to make of Aziz Ansari and how to distinguish between the Harvey Weinsteins and the Al Frankens. But those controversies are secondary.The fundamental fault line today is between those working toward broader opportunity and those yearning for a mythic past before feminists developed nasty, snake-filled heads. To be on the right side of history, we should all, men and women alike, stand on the side of the she-devils.I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on Twitter (@NickKristof).OpinionNicholas KristofOpinionNicholas KristofOpinionNicholas KristofAdvertisementHe chose the sport, but he did not choose brain damage.By EMILY KELLYFEB. 2, 2018
My husband, Rob Kelly, is a retired N.F.L. player. After five seasons as a safety beginning in the late 1990s, four with the New Orleans Saints and one with the New England Patriots, he sustained an injury to a nerve between his neck and shoulder during training camp that ended his career. By the time he retired in 2002 at 28, he had been playing tackle football for about two decades.Rob had no idea, however, that all those years of playing would have such serious consequences. Safeties are the last line of defense and among the hardest hitters in the game. One tackle he attempted while playing for the Saints was so damaging, he doesnt remember the rest of the game. He got up, ran off the field and tried to go back in — as an offensive player. He knows this only because people told him the next day.Professional football is a brutal sport, he knew that. But he loved it anyway. And he accepted the risks of bruises and broken bones. What he didnt know was that along with a battered body can come a battered mind.For decades, it was not well understood that football can permanently harm the brain. Otherwise, many parents would most likely not have signed their boys up to play. But this reality was obscured by the N.F.L.s top medical experts, who for years had denied any link between the sport and long-term degenerative brain diseases like chronic traumatic encephalopathy.AdvertisementThat started to change in late 2009 when, for the first time, the N.F.L. publicly acknowledged that concussions can have long-term effects. In 2016, a top league official admitted that there is a connection between football and C.T.E., which has now been found in the brains of more than 100 deceased players. But for Rob, and countless other players, those admissions came too late.AdvertisementWhen I first met him in 2007, Rob had this gentle, endearing way about him that caught me off guard. I had never watched a full game of football in my life, but still believed the stereotypes: Players were tough and abrasive. He was neither. I had never met a man who was so sensitive and tenderhearted. I loved that he wasnt afraid to be vulnerable and to show tears.When we married in 2009, I already knew he was an amazing father. He could play dollhouse with my stepdaughter for hours without a hint of boredom. This continued when we had two children of our own. When our son was born and I was focused on taking care of a baby, he would bathe the girls, brush and blow-dry their (tangled!) hair, then put them to bed. Afterward he would wash the dishes. He brought me coffee in bed each morning. I was spoiled rotten.But since I had known him, he had trouble sleeping, and he has been prone to mood swings and depression. In 2010, things got worrisome, so I arranged for him to be evaluated by neurologists so that he could apply for disability benefits. We traveled from Ohio, where we were living at the time, to North Carolina for full cognitive evaluations and testing. There were seemingly endless amounts of paperwork and record keeping.I was right to be concerned.Over time, I had started to notice changes. But this was different and, around 2013, things had become much more frightening.He lost weight. It seemed like one day, out of the blue, he stopped being hungry. And often he would forget to eat. Id find full bowls of cereal left around the house, on bookshelves or the fireplace mantel. The more friends and family commented on his gaunt frame, the more panicked I became. By 2016, he had shrunk to 157 pounds. Thats right, my 6-foot-2 football-player husband weighed 157 pounds (down from around 200 when he was in the N.F.L.). People were visibly shocked when we told them he had played the game professionally.Besides damage resulting from football-related concussions, my husband has never had a diagnosed brain injury. Hes never been in a car accident or fallen off a roof. He never took steroids. After struggling in retirement with alcohol abuse for about six years, off and on, he hasnt had a drink in eight years. And hes only 43.When you live with someone with brain damage, you become highly attuned to your environment and develop an intimate relationship with your senses and intuition. Your hearing becomes excellent, almost unbearably keen, like a movie character who develops supernatural abilities overnight. Robs mood swings scare me sometimes, and I always have to be in tune with early signs of his agitation. I try to protect him from stress so he wont be overwhelmed. Its exhausting.AdvertisementOur fights went in bizarre circles and were never resolved. He would be irrationally upset about one thing but would quickly lose track and begin rambling about something that had no connection to the topic at hand. Every argument we had ended with me thinking: This isnt normal. This is not what couples fight about. Somethings wrong.And the arguments were always the same. It was as if our lives were on a loop, like some song thats been left on repeat for years. That sort of repetition has a tremendous ability to make you feel like youre going insane. And maybe, you wonder, you are.He was losing touch with reality and was getting more and more paranoid. The first time he accused me of stealing loose change from his nightstand I was speechless. And when I told him how illogical it would be for me to do such a thing, he looked at me with even more suspicion. But his paranoia didnt end there. It would leave me with a heaviness in my chest that made me sob without warning.He went from being a devoted and loving father and husband to someone who felt like a ghost in our home. For a couple of months one winter he was so depressed and detached, he couldnt muster up the energy to speak. My questions went unanswered until I simply stopped asking them. The silence was unnerving.So we were relieved when, in January 2013, we were told that the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle N.F.L. player retirement plan and supplemental disability plan had awarded him total and permanent disability benefits. His benefits were listed as degenerative, which establishes that his disability arises out of league football activities and had manifested within 15 years of his last season. He is entitled to monthly payments for the rest of his life. (These payments are separate from the estimated $1 billion settlement of concussion-related lawsuits with thousands of retired players, for which we have registered.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The examining clinician found that repeated concussion is very likely to have caused Mr. Kellys neuropsychological dysfunction, and also that his prior alcohol abuse may have been a factor. But he has not had a single drop of alcohol for eight years, and his condition continues to deteriorate.After years of little to no sleep, he alternated between sleeping either three hours a night or 20. Id wake up to find every blind and curtain in the house closed and Rob sitting on the sofa with a blank expression on his face. He no longer felt comfortable driving, refused to leave the house and cut off contact with everyone.Specific details about how he wanted his funeral to be, and his demand that he be cremated, were brought up with excruciating frequency. One particularly dark time, he went five days without eating anything; he drank only water and a few swigs of chocolate milk. He was suffering deeply and barely surviving. My love and affection seemed to offer no comfort or solace. I felt helpless.It wasnt until I joined a private Facebook group of more than 2,400 women, all connected in some way to current or former N.F.L. players, that I realized I wasnt alone.AdvertisementOur stories are eerily similar, our loved ones symptoms almost identical: the bizarre behavior I had tried to ignore, the obsessive laundering of old clothes — our washing machine ran from morning till night.It was comforting and terrifying all at the same time. Why did so many of us see the same strange behaviors? Our neurologist said they do it to calm their brains, one friend told me.Symptoms consistent with C.T.E. are a recurring topic in the Facebook group. They include memory loss, confusion, impaired judgment, aggression, depression and anxiety. These problems become apparent sometimes years or even decades after a player hangs up his helmet.One woman may write a post, desperate and afraid of the man her husband is becoming — the rage, mood swings, depression, memory loss. A man so drastically different from the one she once knew. Hundreds of comments will follow, woman after woman confirming that she is going through the exact same thing.While the symptoms and behaviors are telling, C.T.E. can be conclusively diagnosed only posthumously, because it requires the close examination of brain tissue. But many of us, including me, are convinced our husbands suffer from the disease. We try to comfort one another with the same words: Just know youre not alone.I dont think the public has any idea how widespread this problem truly is. Rob and I hope that, in telling our story, we might help other families. There are likely to be hundreds of wives and partners of football players, maybe more, who live a life like mine. Sadly, there is a feeling of shame among those affected, in both the men and their families.But who these men have become is not who they are, and I write that with conviction. The symptoms they display are beyond their control and occur through no fault of their own. These men chose football, but they didnt choose brain damage.I used to read all the articles about C.T.E., all the stories about football players committing suicide. Id skim the comments to see remarks like: They know what they signed up for and Of course football is bad for the brain, everyone knows that.But when all those big hits happened and the fans cheered, did they cheer despite knowing a man just greatly increased his risk for dementia? Was anyone worried about an A.L.S. diagnosis or a C.T.E.-related suicide at 40 after their favorite player suffered repeated blows to the head on the field? No, they cheered and they celebrated because they didnt know. And neither did we.Emily Kelly lives in Boulder, Colo.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. A version of this op-ed appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page SR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Football Destroyed My Husbands Mind.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MAGGIE HABERMANJAN. 30, 2018
Hillary Clinton said on Tuesday night that she should have fired a top aide in her 2008 presidential campaign accused of sexual harassment.I very much understand the question Im being asked as to why I let an employee on my 2008 campaign keep his job despite his inappropriate workplace behavior, Mrs. Clinton said in a statement on Facebook. The short answer is this: If I had it to do again, I wouldnt.Mrs. Clintons expression of regret over the way she handled the allegations against the aide, Burns Strider, came less than a week after it was first reported  that she had overruled a recommendation from two campaign advisers that he be dismissed. The report of her actions has touched off an extended debate on the responsibilities of the most prominent woman in American politics when confronted with sexual harassment.She posted the lengthy statement about 15 minutes before President Trump entered the House chamber to deliver his first State of the Union address.AdvertisementMr. Strider, who was Mrs. Clintons faith-based adviser and who has frequently sent her scripture readings over the last several years, was accused by a younger female subordinate of repeated sexual harassment in late 2007. The two advisers, after researching the complaint, recommended that he be fired.AdvertisementIn the end, Mrs. Clinton said, I decided to demote him, docking his pay; separate him from the woman; assign her to work directly for my then deputy campaign manager; put in place technical barriers to his emailing her; and require that he seek counseling. He would also be warned that any subsequent harassment of any kind toward anyone would result in immediate termination.I did this because I didnt think firing him was the best solution to the problem, she said. He needed to be punished, change his behavior and understand why his actions were wrong. The young woman needed to be able to thrive and feel safe. I thought both could happen without him losing his job. I believed the punishment was severe and the message to him unambiguous.About five years later, Mr. Strider was hired to lead a super PAC supporting Mrs. Clinton and run by a key ally, David Brock. He was fired from that group after he was accused by another young woman of sexual harassment.Sometimes, she added, second chances are squandered: In this case, while there were no further complaints against him for the duration of the campaign, several years after working for me, he was terminated from another job for inappropriate behavior. That reoccurrence troubles me greatly, and it alone makes clear that the lesson I hoped he had learned while working for me went unheeded.Mrs. Clinton said that at the time I believed the punishment I imposed was severe and fit the offense. She added that employers today would be well served to take actions at least as severe when confronted with problems now and said that included the very media outlet that broke this story — a reference to The New York Times.They recently opted to suspend and reinstate one of their journalists who exhibited similarly inappropriate behavior, rather than terminate him, she said. A decade from now, that decision may not look as tough as it feels today.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mrs. Clinton was referring to Glenn Thrush, a reporter for The Times who was removed from the White House beat and suspended without pay for two months after he faced accusations of  inappropriate sexual behavior. He returned to work this week.Mrs. Clinton did not break off her relationship with Mr. Strider. He attended a party for Mrs. Clintons recent book, What Happened, and she acknowledged him in the book.AdvertisementIn an interview with BuzzFeed, Mr. Strider said about his conduct toward the woman in the campaign, I didnt consider it excessive, but that doesnt mean it wasnt to her.Mrs. Clinton said that the woman told her in a call on Friday that she felt pleased with how the situation was adjudicated at the time and that she felt as if she had been heard.I was inspired by my conversation with this young woman to express my own thinking on the matter, she said. As for why she had waited until Tuesday night to express it, she said, The answer is simple: Ive been grappling with this and thinking about how best to share my thoughts.Noting that the episode was unusual in that a woman complained to a woman who brought the issue to a woman who was the ultimate decision maker, she asked: Does a woman have a responsibility to come down even harder on the perpetrator? I dont know. But I do believe that a woman boss has an extra responsibility to look out for the women who work for her, and to better understand how issues like these can affect them.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Clinton Says She Regrets Not Firing Faith Aide.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Teenagers in The Times By                     
 SHANNON DOYNE
 
FEB. 2, 2018
Welcome to 2018s first edition of Teenagers in The Times, a roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com. We publish a new edition on the first Friday of each month.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________EducationFor One Baltimore School, 7 Killings in Just 15 MonthsThe city is trying everything it can to reverse a soaring homicide rate. But its fundamental problems keep getting in the way.Number of Students Taking the SAT Jumped by More Than Half, City SaysNew York offered the tests for free and on a school day to help close the racial gap in who sits for the college exams.AdvertisementWhy Its So Hard to Calculate What Youll Pay for CollegeMany colleges offer discounts via a system thats come to be known as merit aid. But its not easy to decipher, as a trip to four schools reveals.AdvertisementAs Flow of Foreign Students Wanes, U.S. Universities Feel the StingColleges have cut programs amid a drop in international enrollment tied to several factors, including more restrictive immigration policies.No College Kid Needs a Water Park to StudyTrustees must rein in frivolous spending at public universities.Fraternity Is Banned From Pennsylvania After Students Hazing DeathA Baruch College freshman died after taking part in a fraternity hazing, and the fraternity was convicted of aggravated assault and involuntary manslaughter.More College Students Seem to Be Majoring in PerfectionismNew data indicates that perfectionism, especially when influenced by social media, has increased by 33 percent since 1989.Online Courses Are Harming the Students Who Need the Most HelpOnline education helps school districts that need to save money make do with fewer teachers. But there is mounting evidence that struggling students suffer.Teaching Teens the Financial RopesA nonprofit offers financial literacy lessons to young people.Most States Dont Require Specific Financial Literacy ClassesA new report gave only Alabama, Missouri, Tennessee, Utah and Virginia an A for their efforts. Theres a debate on how best to teach the subject.AdvertisementTransgender Students Discrimination Suit Is Settled for $800,000Ashton Whitaker said that he had been forbidden from using boys bathrooms and felt degraded by administrators at his high school in Wisconsin.Yales Most Popular Class Ever: HappinessWith nearly 1,200 students signed up, a course that tells students how to lead more satisfying lives may be the largest in university history._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessShe Ran From the Cut, and Helped Thousands of Other Girls Escape, TooNice Lengete started a program in Kenya to create new rites of passage to replace female genital cutting and has helped 15,000 girls avoid the ritual.California Girls Escape From Human Depravity Led to Rescue of 12 SiblingsAfter a teenager successfully alerted the authorities to her familys dark secret, her parents, David A. Turpin and Louise A. Turpin, were charged with dozens of counts of torture and abuse.Treatment Offers Hope for Imprisoned California SiblingsCases of children isolated and abused by parents are rare but not unheard-of, say experts. Many recover.Can an Algorithm Tell When Kids Are in Danger?Child protective agencies are haunted when they fail to save kids. Pittsburgh officials believe a new data analysis program is helping them make better judgment calls.What He Did on His Summer Break: Exposed a Global Security FlawNathan Ruser, an Australian college student, discovered that a fitness app revealed the locations of military sites around the world. Now he has to decide what hes doing after graduation.Wales Prepares to Ban Physical Punishment of ChildrenThe move, which is the subject of a 12-week consultation, would match plans in Scotland and laws in more than 50 other countries.Advertisement2 Die as Pakistanis Protest Over Girls KillingHundreds protested in outrage over the death of the girl, one of about a dozen children killed in the city of Kasur over the past two years.Boko Haram Video Is Said to Show Captured Girls From ChibokIn the video, a girl who claims she is among the kidnapped students from Chibok says she is happy being with the fighters of the extremist group. Her identity was not confirmed.Nigeria Rescues Another Student From 2014 Chibok KidnappingThe student was among nearly 300 girls kidnapped from a school during exam week. While many of the girls have been released, dozens are still missing.1,000 Danes Accused of Child Pornography for Sharing Video of TeensThe video, spread through Facebook Messenger, was legal to make, but illegal to distribute. Many of those charged are teenagers themselves.Knife Attack at Russian School Leaves at Least 12 WoundedTwo masked teenagers broke into a fourth-grade classroom in Perm, the latest in a series of assaults that have prompted a debate about school security.School Shooting in Kentucky Was Nations 11th of Year. It Was Jan. 23.When two students were killed by gunfire in Benton, Ky., it was at least the 11th shooting so far this year on school property.After a Turbulent Childhood, on a Path to a Healthier LifeAt 18, Charles Louis quit the psychotropic medications he had been prescribed in foster care. After stretches of homelessness, he now has a place of his own to share with his pets.AdvertisementSeeing More Than Just Another Missing Teenager From the BronxThe frequent disappearances of Desiree Santanas daughter have put a strain on the familys finances and the amount of time she has for her other five children.New Jersey Teenager in Custody After 4 Are Found Shot to Death in HomeThe boy, 16, was held by the police after they discovered his mother, father and sister and a family acquaintance shot dead in their home.My Kids First Lesson in RealpolitikThe author of this Opinion essay writes, Children dont live in a bubble, so why do we try to shelter them from conflict?_________Science, Health, Technology and SportsNorth Dakotas Loss of Division I Womens Hockey Leaves a VoidMore than a decade of gains in the states youth and high school girls programs are endangered, and players who aspired to the team are heartbroken.A Teenagers Basketball Dream Is Size XXXXXLWhats life like at 7 feet 7 inches? Robert Bobroczkyi, a 17-year-old basketball prospect, gives us a view of his world.Oklahomas Trae Young, the Superstar Nobody Saw ComingFreshman Trae Young began the year unheralded. Now he leads in points and assists and has single-handedly made Oklahoma-Kansas a marquee matchup.Marta Kostyuk, 15, Reaches 3rd Round of Australian OpenTheres no doubt the Ukrainian teenager can play at a high level, but shes also learning to deal with the high expectations that come with early success.AdvertisementMore Than 150 Women Described Sexual Abuse by Lawrence Nassar. Will Their Testimony Help Them Heal?The psychological effects of disclosing a traumatic secret — of telling your story — depend on the audience, the nature of the trauma and other factors.U.S.A. Gymnastics Still Values Medals More Than GirlsCorporations like AT&T are doing more to reckon with the abuse than the sports governing body, states the writer of this Opinion essay, a former rhythmic gymnast on the United States National Team.Gymnast Maggie Nichols Wants Everyone to Know About Larry Nassars AbuseMs. Nichols, who is ranked first nationwide on the collegiate level, said she was sexually abused by the team doctor and reported it in 2015.One After Another, Athletes Face Larry Nassar and Recount Sexual AbuseThe Olympic gymnasts Jordyn Wieber and Aly Raisman are among dozens of women speaking in a Michigan court about sexual abuse from the former team doctor.Hits to the Head May Result in Immediate Brain DamageWhen a teenager is hit in the head, his brain can begin to show signs, within days, of the kind of damage associated with degenerative brain disease.Raising a Transgender ChildOne family explains their childs change to her true self.Young Women Are Using A.D.H.D. Drugs in Greater Numbers, C.D.C. ReportsSince 2003, the percentage of women filling prescriptions for drugs like Ritalin has increased nearly fivefold in some age groups.Turn Off Messenger Kids, Health Experts Plead to FacebookIn a letter organized by the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, dozens of health experts say the new app preys on a vulnerable group.AdvertisementVaping Can Be Addictive and May Lure Teenagers to Smoking, Science Panel ConcludesA report from the National Academy of Sciences said that e-cigarettes are safer than smoking, but not quite safe, and may cause teens to take up tobacco.We Need Bodice-Ripper Sex EdRomance novels taught me that sexual pleasure was something women could not just hope for but insist upon, states the writer of this Opinion essay._________Arts, Media and CultureA Rap Video for a Biology Class Was His Demo ReelJulien Turner, 20, is a budding filmmaker at Morehouse College, where hes also a linebacker on the football team.A Versace Model, Rapper and ASAP Mob Collaborator. And Hes Only 19.For Judah Lang, a multitalented performer who grew up in SoHo, creativity seems to run in the family.Miss Golden Globe Is No More. Long Live the Golden Globe Ambassador.Simone Garcia Johnson, the daughter of Dwayne Johnson, takes over this year, with a new name for the ceremonial gig.In Saturday Church, Coming of Age, and Coming OutLuka Kain is a find in Saturday Church, as a gay teen seeking acceptance and friendship.In Freak Show, the Boy Who Would be Homecoming QueenThe film, directed by Trudie Styler, is another high-school tale told in too-broad strokes.Onstage, Escaping the Pain of Her ChildhoodAfter being removed from her aunt and uncles home at 15, Cearia Scipio bounced among foster homes. She found freedom in acting and taking on someone elses problems.AdvertisementDebutantes and DivasSome traditions never fade. The Debutante Cotillion and Christmas Ball was held on Dec. 22 at Cipriani Wall Street.Thats What Ze SaidI use whatever pronoun my students choose for themselves, simply out of respect for them, states the English professor who wrote this Opinion essay.7 Young People on Their Views of GenderAnnie Tritt has been photographing young people whose sense of gender goes beyond the binary norm. These are a few of their thoughts and pictures.Tell Us What to Call the Generation After Millennials (Please)If youre an American who is 22 or younger, wed like to hear from you.We Asked Generation Z to Pick a Name. It Wasnt Generation Z.Thousands of people 22 and under (and many older people) weighed in on the most important question of the coming century._________Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

      By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, 
    
GABRIEL J.X. DANCE and 
    
RICH HARRIS

JAN. 31, 2018

Federal and state authorities are investigating the sellers of artificial followers and other fraudulent social media engagement.
Federal and state authorities are investigating the sellers of artificial followers and other fraudulent social media engagement.By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, GABRIEL J.X. DANCE and RICH HARRIS JAN. 31, 2018More than a million followers have disappeared from the accounts of dozens of prominent Twitter users in recent days as the company faces growing criticism over the proliferation of fake accounts and scrutiny from federal and state inquiries into the shadowy firms that sell fake followers.The people losing followers include an array of entertainers, entrepreneurs, athletes and media figures, many of whom bought Twitter followers or artificial engagement from a company called Devumi. Its business practices were detailed in a New York Times article on Saturday describing  a vast trade in fake followers and fraudulent engagement on Twitter and other social media sites, often using personal information taken from real users. Twitter said on Saturday that it would take action against Devumis practices. A Twitter spokeswoman on Tuesday declined to comment about whether the company was purging fake accounts.The singer Clay Aiken, the actor John Leguizamo and the reality TV star Lisa Rinna have each lost a substantial number of followers, according to a review of their accounts. So has Martha Lane Fox, a British businesswoman and Twitter board member. Other well-known users have taken to Twitter in recent days to complain of lost followers, suggesting that a broad swath of people may be affected, not just Devumi customers.The companys heightened campaign against bots comes as federal lawmakers and law enforcement officials in two states are scrutinizing Devumi and its competitors online, where numerous websites sell fake followers or engagement on Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube, Instagram and other social media platforms.On Tuesday, Senators Jerry Moran of Kansas and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut — the chairman and the ranking member, respectively, of the Senate subcommittee on consumer protection and data security — asked the Federal Trade Commission to begin an investigation into the deceptive and unfair marketing practices of Devumi and similar companies. While Devumi promises customers 100 Percent Active, English Followers, virtually all of the followers and retweets the company provides are fake, The Times found. Twitter prohibits buying followers of any kind.The Florida attorney general, Pam Bondi, a Republican, has also begun an investigation into Devumi, joining Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general and a Democrat, who announced on Saturday that he would begin reviewing whether the company had violated state laws against impersonation and commercial deception.The Times found evidence that the information of Twitter users in every state — including thousands of people in Florida and New York — had been copied onto bots sold by Devumi or rival companies.At least 55,000 fake accounts use the names, profile pictures, hometowns and other personal details of real Twitter users, including minors, according to a Times data analysis. The original accounts list locations in all 50 U.S. states.By The New York TimesDevumi was based in Florida until recently but lists a New York City address on its website. The companys owner, German Calas, also lives in Florida.Based on the New York Times article, we have opened an investigation into these very serious allegations, Ms. Bondi said in an interview Tuesday. We would encourage any citizens who believe they have been a victim of this scam to please contact the Florida attorney generals office immediately.Mr. Calas did not respond to an email seeking comment. But on Monday, Devumis parent company, Bytion, filed paperwork in Florida indicating that it had moved its principal place of business to Colorado. Jared Stark, a lawyer for Mr. Calass business, said in an email that both companies had relocated to Denver earlier in January, a move he described as in the works for some time. He declined to comment on the investigations into Devumi.A reporter visiting Bytions Denver office on Tuesday found it largely empty, save for a few boxes against one wall and patio furniture on a balcony. Gerald Sexton, Bytions director of people and culture, declined to comment and said that Mr. Calas was not available.A few minutes later, a process server arrived at the office to deliver a subpoena from Mr. Schneidermans office. A spokeswoman for Mr. Schneiderman declined to comment.The disclosure of dozens of Devumis customers in entertainment, politics and business has sparked a renewed debate — often carried out on Twitter itself — about the prevalence of fraud and fakery on social media, where tens of millions of fake users still roam.The Chicago Sun-Times announced on Monday that it would suspend publishing reviews by the newspapers film critic, Richard Roeper, while conducting a review of his social media following. Mr. Roeper bought at least 25,000 followers from Devumi, according to records reviewed by The Times, and an analysis of his account indicates that many of his nearly quarter-million Twitter followers are fake accounts.Both Twitter and Facebook verify the identity of some celebrities, politicians and other high-profile users and include blue check marks on their account pages, in part to prevent scam artists from impersonating them. But a vast majority of accounts are not vetted in the same way.Moreover, Twitter does not require that accounts be associated with a real person. Mark Cuban, a prominent technology investor, tweeted on Monday that it was time for Twitter to change that policy, and for Facebook to tighten its requirements. Mr. Cuban elaborated over email, saying that automated accounts, or bots, and impersonation on Twitter had made him less enthusiastic about using the platform.I dont think your user handle or profile has to reflect your actual name or picture, Mr. Cuban said. I do think Twitter would benefit from requiring every account(s) being tied back to an individual. If someone wants to run a bot account, great, but identify a person behind it.Some federal and state lawmakers have called for more stringent laws regulating social media companies, in part to combat the epidemic of fake accounts. Many fake accounts are deployed by Russia and other countries seeking to influence American politics, but others are used by marketing companies to influence consumers and even policymakers.Marc Levine, a California state assemblyman from outside San Francisco, introduced legislation on Monday that would require social media companies doing business in California to link every account to a human being. The legislation would also require that social media companies allow only human account holders to place advertisements on their platforms.There are any number of interest groups looking to shape public opinion, Mr. Levine said in an interview. Weve seen all of this exploited and millions of people manipulated.Kassondra Cloos contributed reporting.Jan. 27, 2018Jan. 27, 2018Sept. 27, 2017AdvertisementBy KIT GILLETJAN. 29, 2018
BUCHAREST, Romania — Viorica Dancila was approved by the Romanian Parliament as prime minister on Monday, becoming the first woman to hold the position in the countrys history despite doubts about her relative lack of experience and the continued influence of a party leader who has been convicted of vote fraud.Ms. Dancila, 54, a member of the European Parliament since 2009, will take power after her cabinet was approved by Parliament, 282 to 136. She is the third prime minister in a turbulent 12 months for the country that has included a wave of anti-government protests, the largest in a quarter-century, over legislation that would have eased the penalties for corruption.Ms. Dancila was formerly a little-known politician, and her low profile, some of the cabinet choices, and her ties to Liviu Dragnea, the powerful leader of the governing Social Democrat Party, mean that she will enter office with many Romanians skeptical of her independence and her ability to bring stability and usher in a more progressive era, especially as the country wrestles with corruption and growing disillusionment with the political class.Mr. Dragnea was unable to become prime minister because of a conviction for electoral fraud, and is also under investigation for misuse of state money, including European Union funds.AdvertisementThat has led to speculation that Ms. Dancila had effectively been installed to serve his interests rather than acting independently, although he said in a speech before the vote that the country would benefit from her lack of recent exposure to the more petty aspects of Romanian politics. She hails from the same county as Mr. Dragnea.AdvertisementSpeaking before the vote, Ms. Dancila focused on plans to raise the minimum wage, improve transport and reduce bureaucracy. Romanias economy was one of the fastest growing in Europe last year, but the country is still one of the poorest in the European Union.The goal of my mandate is for Romania in 2020 to be in the top half of the E.U.s strongest economies so that young people no longer leave from Romania, and those that have left want to return, she told lawmakers.Maybe she is a very good person, but we dont know anything about her, said Cristian Pirvulescu, the dean of the political science department at the National University of Political Studies and Public Administration in Bucharest. She hasnt had any important political experience until now — she was just a member of a small city council and then after that a member of the European Parliament.Professor Pirvulescu said there was a simple explanation for why she had become prime minister: After difficult experiences with the two previous governments, Liviu Dragnea wants a government he can be absolutely sure of.Others also questioned Ms. Dancilas experience.Shes not been among the prominent M.E.P.s, and wasnt very visible in Brussels. I knew she existed, that she was a Social Democrat M.E.P., but thats where it ended, said Paul Ivan, a former Romanian diplomat and a senior policy analyst at the European Policy Center in Brussels.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Dancila was nominated after her predecessor, Mihai Tudose, resigned on Jan. 15 after losing the support of his Social Democrat colleagues, in particular Mr. Dragnea. His appointment came after the resignation of Sorin Grindeanu last June, after he lost a no-confidence vote brought about by his own party.Both were felt not to have given their full backing to efforts to overhaul the justice system, a party priority, and to have sought more autonomy from party leaders like Mr. Dragnea.After a year of on-again, off-again protests over attempts to weaken anticorruption efforts, the composition of the new government dampened hopes that it would offer a different approach to leadership.AdvertisementSeveral cabinet members, including the new business minister, Radu Oprea, have faced allegations of corruption. The new minister for European funds, Rovana Plumb, was forced to resign from the same post late last year over allegations related to land transfers.Professor Pirvulescu said that the main focus of the new government in the short term was likely to be on completing highly disputed changes to the judiciary, an effort that has been met with strong criticism from the countrys allies, including the United States and European Commission.Romanians dont have the capacity to block this, even with big protests, he said, before referring to the emergence of populist movements in the region. We have this illiberal environment in Eastern Europe, and Romania isnt an exception.Opposition groups were also disinclined to give Ms. Dancila and her cabinet the benefit of the doubt.Dancila seems like she will be more obedient to Mr. Dragnea, so it wont be better, and it could be worse, said Florin Badita, an activist who has helped rally people through a Facebook group he created after a deadly nightclub fire in 2015. Her appointment wont have any impact on the protests.A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Novice to Lead Romania Inspires Little Confidence.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Nikita StewartAs Black Lives Matter was growing into a social movement, the killing of Eric Garner by the police on Staten Island and the harsh treatment of teenage inmates at the Rikers Island jail complex pushed New York activists into a national spotlight.One of them was Glenn E. Martin, an ex-convict who was sought out for his firsthand knowledge of the dangers and hope found behind bars. In interviews and in speeches, he recounted being stabbed by fellow inmates as a teenager at Rikers and earning a college degree as an adult in an upstate prison while serving a sentence for armed robbery.In 2014, Mr. Martin had started a nonprofit advocacy group, JustLeadershipUSA, and over the next few years, he became a vocal proponent of closing Rikers, where pervasive abuse by guards and persistent violence among inmates were drawing new attention to the need to reform the citys jail system. In 2016, Mr. Martin received standing ovations as he accepted the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award in Washington.As his reputation as a fund-raiser and advocate grew, so, too, did talk that he was using his professional prominence to pursue sexual relationships with women who were drawn to the criminal justice reform movement — and in some instances engaging in sexual misconduct.According to a statement last week from JLUSA, the organization conducted an investigation in November and found no misconduct by Mr. Martin. But then in December Mr. Martin quit, telling the board that his leaving was in the best interests of the organization. The abrupt departure intensified speculation about his conduct.The New York Times has learned that an employee of the organization was paid $25,000 in 2015 as part of an agreement that concealed her allegations that Mr. Martin had groped and propositioned her in his apartment during what was supposed to be a work meeting.In an interview, she said the August 2015 incident changed her life.I joined JLUSA to empower people and instead had all the power taken away from me, the woman, 32, said. I was rendered powerless and silenced while he was empowered with an even bigger microphone.The encounter took place when the organization was still forming a board. The review of the employees allegations and the confidential agreement made with her were handled by Arabella Advisors, a philanthropy services firm that manages the New Venture Fund, one of the early nonprofit supporters of JustLeadershipUSA.As part of the agreement, which The Times has reviewed, the woman had promised not to discuss the allegations or money she received. She said she agreed to termination and $25,000 in compensation after declining an offer to remain with the nonprofit but to work from home.When she learned of Mr. Martins resignation, she suspected that there were other instances of misconduct. After she was contacted by The Times, she said she had decided to breach the nondisclosure pact because she wanted to support other women who had talked to The Times about their experiences with Mr. Martin.Two of those women, both of whom work for criminal justice nonprofits, said in interviews that they were subjected to lewd acts by Mr. Martin — incidents that occurred after the confidential agreement with the former employee. In separate incidents, in 2016 and 2017, the women said, Mr. Martin masturbated in front of each of them.Like the former employee, the two other women said they wanted to preserve their privacy, and they agreed to be interviewed on the condition that their names not be published.Mr. Martin, 47, through an attorney, denied any inappropriate conduct with the former employee or with the other two women.Glenn vehemently denies any of the allegations that are the subject of this article. These allegations are simply not true, Keith White, his lawyer, said in a statement.Vivian D. Nixon, chairwoman of the JLUSA board, said the employee never approached her about her concerns and that the investigation and settlement were not shared with the founding JLUSA board of directors.At that time, JLUSA was still seeking tax-exempt status, so the New Venture Fund, a nonprofit based in Washington, D. C., acted as the groups fiscal sponsor and handled personnel matters.We were not made aware of any concerns by our fiscal sponsor about moving forward with the formation of JLUSA under Glenn Martins leadership, Ms. Nixon said in a statement.Lee Bodner, president of the New Venture Fund, said in an emailed response to questions, I talked to our lawyer, and everything here is covered by confidentiality and nondisclosure obligations and we cannot discuss them.On Tuesday, Ms. Nixon and the organization condemned abuse and harassment while also saying space needed to be made for both victims and offenders to heal.JLUSA now has about two dozen employees and has secured millions of dollars from big-name charities, including the Ford Foundation, Google.org and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, the foundation started by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan. In 2016, Mr. Martin was appointed to a commission to look into Rikers. Last year, he starred in a commercial urging Mayor Bill de Blasio to close Rikers.But in its early days, the organization was based in Mr. Martins Harlem apartment and had a small staff. The employee who later made her accusations said she was inspired to work for the group because many of her relatives had been incarcerated and, in her view, unfairly punished by the justice system.On a Monday in August 2015, the woman and another employee stuffed envelopes for a fund-raiser at Mr. Martins apartment from around 4 p.m. until 7 p.m. The woman said it was the first time she had been in Mr. Martins home.After the woman and the other employee left, she glanced down at her phone at around 7:30 p.m. and saw that Mr. Martin had texted her at 7:09 p.m. Was going to ask u to get a drink with me and discuss JLUSA 2016 planning.She returned to his building for the meeting. For about two hours, they talked about work over a bottle of wine. But at around 10:15 p.m., Mr. Martin shifted the tone of the conversation and told her he was attracted to her, she said.The woman detailed her account of the nights events in an email two days later to human resources at Arabella Advisors.Mr. Martin comes toward me and kisses me. He touches my face, shoulder, waist, breasts. I shake my head. I say no and look down at the ground for a while and his hands are all over me. He tells me he fantasizes about me all the time. He says I need to let him get this out of his system. That phrase is said at least three times until I leave.His advances, including requests to join him in his bedroom, continued. He repeatedly said hes not going to sleep with me but that I should come into the bedroom with him, she wrote in the email, which The New York Times has reviewed.The woman finally left, receiving a text from Mr. Martin at 10:48 p.m. Let me know when youre safe.She responded at 10:54 p.m., Home now.Shaken, the woman told her husband what happened that night. In the following days, she said she also told Arabella and David Mensah, a consultant who still works with JLUSA. Mr. Mensah did not respond to messages for comment. Arabella referred questions to the New Venture Fund.On Thursday, a few days after the incident, Arabellas senior director of human resources responded, Just wanted to quickly let you know that I have received this email and will be circling back with you very soon. I also wanted to say that Im very sorry to hear this happened to you.The next month, the woman officially left and agreed to accept the payment. In an email on Sept. 10, 2015, the senior human resources director said Mr. Martin would be informed that she was leaving and would inform other staff. As discussed previously the communication will be neutral and absent any of the details about what happened or the terms of this agreement, the director wrote.About four months later in January or February of 2016, another woman, 35, said she met Mr. Martin at a panel discussion, and then he pursued her through direct messages on Facebook. Interested in talking to him about justice reform, she said she accompanied Mr. Martin to his apartment one evening.She said she found him attractive, but a chat over wine took a lewd and unexpected turn after Mr. Martin went to his bedroom. She said he was lying on the bed and asked her to join him, which she said she declined to do. The best way to describe it was a whining Why dont you want me? she recalled.He then pulled out his penis and masturbated, she said. I felt paralyzed. I couldnt move or walk away. I couldnt. I was stuck there, she said, later adding, I remember thinking, Hes not embarrassed?She said she saw him once more, seeking an apology that she did not receive. She also tearfully told her new boss what had happened, because she feared Mr. Martin had spread a different story within the justice reform community.People would be drooling to hear him talk, the woman said. You look at this man and theres a trail of women who have been harmed. Youre hurting the women that are doing the work.In February 2017, another woman, a 29-year-old social worker, met Mr. Martin when he visited her organization to talk about justice reform. He later encouraged her to apply for a job at JLUSA but almost immediately began to make unwanted advances, she said.The advances, which the woman said she now views as harassment, contributed to her decision to withdraw her application, she said. Mr. Martin continued to contact her, and in March, she went to confront him at the office in Harlem, she said. He tried to kiss me. He grabbed my neck. He tried to pull my pants down, she said, noting that they were alone in the office.She said she fended him off, but then he masturbated in front of her. She said she froze. I was completely demoralized, she said.She spoke to two friends who confirmed to The Times that the woman told them what happened. One of the friends provided text messages that the woman sent her showing her concern about the earlier advances.After Mr. Martin resigned, the woman approached The Times. She said she had been reluctant to speak out about Mr. Martin, who had become the face of criminal justice reform in the city.I thought I was going to harm quote, unquote the movement.Susan Beachy contributed research.Follow Nikita Stewart on Twitter: @kitastew.Advertisement
Hungry City By                     
LIGAYA MISHAN

FEB. 1, 2018

CreditEmon Hassan for The New York Times        At Serengeti Kitchen in East Harlem, the escargots are small and dainty, demure analogues to the giant African land snails — large enough to spill over the palm of your hand — that are eaten as hors doeuvres in West Africa.Doughba Caranda-Martin III, the chef, braises the escargots slowly in a stew of tomatoes and smoked peppers, including musky black pepper from the Gulf of Guinea and wild handpicked Madagascar pepper, floral with a whiff of camphor. Just before serving, he adds half a teaspoon of crushed Ghanaian kpakpo shito peppers, ever so slightly less incendiary than Scotch bonnets. The snails emerge tender, with a lovely heat that curls up the back of your throat.Mr. Caranda-Martin was born in Liberia to a family steeped in politics (one grandfather was a senator) and spent much of his childhood on his grandmothers farm in Grand Bassa, south of the capital, Monrovia. He was 15 when the First Liberian Civil War began, in 1989. Bullets were flying everywhere, he said. Alone, separated from his family, he made his way east to a refugee camp in Ivory Coast and eventually found sanctuary in the United States.He earned recognition as a visual artist and started a nonprofit organization to send medical aid to West Africa. But he never forgot his grandmothers lessons in botany or his familys history of growing tea and coffee. In 2013, he opened a tearoom, Serengeti Teas and Spices, in central Harlem, to give the world something else to know about Africa, he said. Serengeti Kitchen followed this November, about a half-mile east.Time bends here; a meal might take four hours, even when the dining room is empty. The kitchen is still finding its footing — or, perhaps, you are being asked to pause and learn a different pace of life.AdvertisementIts a beautiful place to do so, the narrow dining room glowing from burnished lamps and red Moroccan lanterns, with indigenous and contemporary African art sharing the walls. Geometric cutouts perforate the restaurants facade, an allusion to Dogon architecture in Mali, repeated indoors and on the ceiling over a semi-enclosed back garden.AdvertisementEvery few months, the menu will shift to explore different regions of the continent. For now, Liberia is its heart. One dish harks back to summers on the farm in Grand Bassa, where Mr. Caranda-Martin picked leaves off the sweet potato vines. Decanted palm oil is brought to high heat until it loses its blood-red hue and turns the color of high noon. Then sweet potato leaves, dark and iron-rich, relax in the pan, soaking up the oil, and come out a creamy pulp with a faint smack of garlic.Another touch of memoir: a jelly jar filled with duck liver pâté, which Mr. Caranda-Martins grandmother used to make and call liver butter. (Ducks wandered the farm.) Its simple and forthright, accented by rosemary, cloves and Ethiopian sea salt, with sesame oil for extra velvet.In his art, Mr. Caranda-Martin has used heirloom African textiles as canvases, painting over them, refusing to allow the past to remain static. With food, too, he nods to tradition but faces forward.A thick soup of zucchini and bunapi mushrooms is cooked down with muan-muan (fermented fish) in a broth of forest bark, melding sea and earth. Roasted guinea hen, customarily served whole, is here represented by its best part, thighs, deboned and tied with string to hold in the juices, and half-submerged in a deep, mellow stew of sweet African peppers.No meal is complete without tea, served in a glass kettle thats perched over a candle to keep it warm. Each has a story, like one that Mr. Caranda-Martin described as drunk by fishermen, composed of wache (red sorghum leaves) and root grass from the West African coast.For dessert, hot chocolate is inflamed by dehydrated Scotch bonnets; truffles are laced with suya spice, a flare-up of ginger, chile and kuli-kuli (spiced groundnut paste), more often slapped on meat before grilling. Other treats are hidden on the tea list, including apple cake, baked by an aunt and so rich its almost damp, and a lush pudding born of a childhood prank of throwing kelewele (ginger-fried plantains) in a blender.There are more stories. And to book the $65 tasting menu, which features rarer ingredients like loofah, a gourd from Botswana, you must call ahead and share your own. We have to have a conversation, like Grandma and Grandpa when youre coming over, Mr. Caranda-Martin said. We need to have a sense of who you are.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.22 East 125th Street(Madison Avenue)Harlemserengetikitchen.comRecommended Dishes Sweet potato leaf stew; pepper escargots; saffron bean mini pot; roasted guinea hen; yellow snapper fillet and pepper stew; apple cake.Price $$ (moderate)Open Tuesday to Sunday for lunch and dinner.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access The dining room is three steps down from the sidewalk; a ramp is available if you call ahead. The restroom is equipped with handrail.
                This information was last updated: Feb. 2, 2018 A version of this review appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Nostalgia for Liberia Fills the Menu.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byHungry City9 PhotosView Slide Show ›Danny Ghitis for The New York TimesBy Ligaya MishanOn every table at Happy Stony Noodle sits a bowl of suan cai, pickled mustard greens, dark and minerally, fermented and then flopped in a wok with sesame oil, garlic, dried onion and a flick of sugar. The chef, Chih Shen Hsu, calls it Chinese kimchi. Its a condiment, to be spooned into soup or over meat, lending a sour frisson and crunch. But I ate it straight and was, as the restaurants name promised, happy.Mr. Hsu, 65, was born in Hsinchu City in northern Taiwan under martial law. As a child, he often lingered over soup at Happy Beef Noodle, a no-frills storefront opened by veterans of the Kuomintangs Nationalist Army who had fled to Taiwan after the Communists victory in mainland China. When he grew up, he took over the noodle shop and ran it for two decades with his wife, Yu Lan Hsu, while they watched the transformation of their country from rural society to megalopolis.They moved to the U.S. in 1997 and brought Happy Beef Noodle with them, trying out iterations of the restaurant in Flushing, Queens, then Edison, N.J. (Both have shuttered.) Two and a half years ago, they settled on this quiet side street off Broadway in Elmhurst, Queens. The Stony now on the awning is Mr. Hsus English nickname, bestowed on him by a professor in his college days.The heart of the restaurant is the same as it was in Hsinchu City: beef noodle soup, which Mr. Hsu starts making every morning at 5 a.m. He sets beef neck bones to boil with star anise, goji berries, doubanjiang (fermented bean paste) and prickly ash, along with a half-dozen herbs that double as Chinese medicine, and keeps stirring the broth over a low flame until nightfall.The soup is deceptively mild at first, gaining carnality with each spoonful but never growing too forceful, held in check by a faint, ameliorating sweetness. It comes with rough cuts of beef, only half-pliant, putting up gentle but firm resistance, and whole spinach leaves added at the end so theyre still vivid. Pickled mustard greens are essential, the tang offsetting the velvet cling of liquid fat.Four types of noodles are on offer, all delivered daily from the same factory in Chinatown that has been making them to Mr. Hsus specifications for 20 years. For the beef noodle soup, I liked the flat white bands made of rice flour, slippery with a bit of stretch.The menu is best when it focuses on forthright comfort food, like lu rou fan, pork leg broken down into caramelly hunks, long simmered with rock sugar and Shaoxing wine, and heaped over rice so the flavors trickle down. For texture, theres a spongy rectangle of fried tofu on the side, along with a hard-boiled egg, shucked of its shell and stained with soy sauce, and more of those beautifully bracing pickled mustard greens.Hunks of salt-and-pepper chicken are colloquially known as popcorn chicken in Taiwan, the name justified by airy, bubbled coats of fried potato starch. Here, the meat inside is juicy from a wallow in sa-cha sauce, with its briny payload of dried shrimp and ground brill. Another snack, chicken roll, is identified on the menu in English as pork roll, which is technically more accurate — the filling is ground pork and fish paste, wrapped tight in tofu skin and crisped until the outside evokes the rugged golden armor of fried chicken.Elsewhere, little notes were off: too many chives in a dish called flies heads (for its scattered dots of fermented black beans, which I wanted more of); in three-cup chicken, overly fatty meat with jellyish corners, and not quite enough of the dark, creased leaves of Thai basil that traditionally give it fragrance.For a recent arrival from Taiwan at my table, missing home, there was only one dish that mattered: four spirits soup, a cloudy broth steeped with four curative herbs, with the supposed power to bolster immunity, ease digestion, bring a glow to the skin and defy time. Its finished with pale curves of pig intestine and a splash of wine. After all the lush fat and crackle, it tastes like hardly anything at all, and exactly what you need.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.This information was last updated on Jan. 25, 2018AdvertisementBy THE NEW YORK TIMESJAN. 28, 2018
Heres what to expect in the week ahead:ECONOMYOfficial data being released Tuesday is expected to confirm that the European economy continued to boom in the final three months of 2017, with no signs of a slowdown. Eurostat, the European Unions official statistics agency, will publish an estimate of the economys growth that analysts expect will show that the eurozone is expanding at an annual pace of around 2.5 percent. But while Germany is suffering from labor shortages, there are still pockets of woe like Greece. Jack EwingJanet L. Yellen will preside over her final meeting as Federal Reserve chairwoman on Tuesday and Wednesday. She will complete her four-year term at the end of the week and her successor, Jerome H. Powell, is waiting in the wings. The Fed raised its benchmark rate at its last meeting, in December, and another rate increase is expected at its  meeting in March. The January meeting, however, is expected to pass quietly — one Wall Street analyst advised clients to hit the snooze button. If history is any guide, Fed officials will deliver tributes to Ms. Yellen at the meeting, but the details wont be shared with the public until the meeting transcripts are released in five years. Binyamin AppelbaumOIL INDUSTRYMexico will auction 29 deepwater exploration blocks in the Gulf of Mexico to international oil companies on Wednesday as part of its broad opening to private energy investment. Among the potential bidders are the big oil companies Chevron, BP, Shell and Exxon Mobil. Mexicos deepwater reserves have not been developed but their geology is similar to productive fields on the side of the gulf controlled by the United States. The auction, covering areas over more than 27,000 square miles, is one of the last before Mexicos presidential election is held on July 1. The front-runner in the polls, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, has said he would review private oil contracts and the Energy Ministry is speeding ahead with auctions before President Enrique Peña Nietos term ends in December. Last week, it announced a new auction of 37 onshore oil and gas fields for July 25. Elisabeth MalkinTECHEarnings season for technology companies will begin with a bang this week. On Wednesday, investors will be watching for further details from Facebook on how its plans to fix its problems, including claims of bogus news, will affect its business. That same day, Microsoft will report on whether its cloud computing business continues to grow at a strong clip. The three As of tech — Apple, Amazon and Alphabet, the parent company of Google — are expected to provide more insight on Thursday into how well devices like the iPhone, Amazon Echo and Google Home sold over the holiday quarter. Nick WingfieldAdvertisementThe message from oil companies this week is likely to be that their business is once again a moneymaking machine. Royal Dutch Shell, Europes largest oil company, is expected to report fourth quarter 2017 earnings on Thursday, followed by Exxon Mobil and Chevron on Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The operating environment for oil companies has improved greatly after some grim years caused by a price crash that began in 2014 and dropped prices to the $30 a barrel range. Prices have jumped in recent months thanks to strong global demand and output curbs orchestrated by Saudi Arabia and Russia; Brent crude has now climbed back to the $70 a barrel range. At the same time, oil companies have used low prices to force contractors and suppliers to reduce costs. The result, analysts forecast, should be sharply higher earnings compared with the same period a year earlier. Stanley ReedBANKINGDeutsche Bank, Germanys largest lender, will give details on Friday on what it has already said was a small loss during the fourth quarter of 2017 because of tax changes in the United States. Deutsche Bank warned earlier this month that it would subtract $1.9 billion from its quarterly profit because of changes that reduced its ability to deduct past losses. At a news conference in Frankfurt, John Cryan, Deutsche Banks chief executive, will also face questions — which he will probably decline to answer — about the banks work for companies controlled by the family of Jared Kushner, President Trumps son-in-law. Jack EwingAdvertisementECONOMYDespite a modest slowdown in December, job growth was strong in 2017. The latest employment figures from the Labor Department, scheduled to be released Friday, will probably show that solid hiring continued in the new year. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch estimated that American employers added 171,000 jobs in January, which would represent a slight increase from the 148,000 added in December. All eyes will be on wages, which have only risen slowly despite the 4.1 percent unemployment rate, the lowest since 2000. Economists expect a slight uptick in the annual rate of wage growth in January, but their forecasts have frequently proven overly optimistic. Ben CasselmanA version of this article appears in print on January 29, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Europes Economic Data And Yellens Goodbye.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.He chose the sport, but he did not choose brain damage.By EMILY KELLYFEB. 2, 2018
My husband, Rob Kelly, is a retired N.F.L. player. After five seasons as a safety beginning in the late 1990s, four with the New Orleans Saints and one with the New England Patriots, he sustained an injury to a nerve between his neck and shoulder during training camp that ended his career. By the time he retired in 2002 at 28, he had been playing tackle football for about two decades.Rob had no idea, however, that all those years of playing would have such serious consequences. Safeties are the last line of defense and among the hardest hitters in the game. One tackle he attempted while playing for the Saints was so damaging, he doesnt remember the rest of the game. He got up, ran off the field and tried to go back in — as an offensive player. He knows this only because people told him the next day.Professional football is a brutal sport, he knew that. But he loved it anyway. And he accepted the risks of bruises and broken bones. What he didnt know was that along with a battered body can come a battered mind.For decades, it was not well understood that football can permanently harm the brain. Otherwise, many parents would most likely not have signed their boys up to play. But this reality was obscured by the N.F.L.s top medical experts, who for years had denied any link between the sport and long-term degenerative brain diseases like chronic traumatic encephalopathy.AdvertisementThat started to change in late 2009 when, for the first time, the N.F.L. publicly acknowledged that concussions can have long-term effects. In 2016, a top league official admitted that there is a connection between football and C.T.E., which has now been found in the brains of more than 100 deceased players. But for Rob, and countless other players, those admissions came too late.AdvertisementWhen I first met him in 2007, Rob had this gentle, endearing way about him that caught me off guard. I had never watched a full game of football in my life, but still believed the stereotypes: Players were tough and abrasive. He was neither. I had never met a man who was so sensitive and tenderhearted. I loved that he wasnt afraid to be vulnerable and to show tears.When we married in 2009, I already knew he was an amazing father. He could play dollhouse with my stepdaughter for hours without a hint of boredom. This continued when we had two children of our own. When our son was born and I was focused on taking care of a baby, he would bathe the girls, brush and blow-dry their (tangled!) hair, then put them to bed. Afterward he would wash the dishes. He brought me coffee in bed each morning. I was spoiled rotten.But since I had known him, he had trouble sleeping, and he has been prone to mood swings and depression. In 2010, things got worrisome, so I arranged for him to be evaluated by neurologists so that he could apply for disability benefits. We traveled from Ohio, where we were living at the time, to North Carolina for full cognitive evaluations and testing. There were seemingly endless amounts of paperwork and record keeping.I was right to be concerned.Over time, I had started to notice changes. But this was different and, around 2013, things had become much more frightening.He lost weight. It seemed like one day, out of the blue, he stopped being hungry. And often he would forget to eat. Id find full bowls of cereal left around the house, on bookshelves or the fireplace mantel. The more friends and family commented on his gaunt frame, the more panicked I became. By 2016, he had shrunk to 157 pounds. Thats right, my 6-foot-2 football-player husband weighed 157 pounds (down from around 200 when he was in the N.F.L.). People were visibly shocked when we told them he had played the game professionally.Besides damage resulting from football-related concussions, my husband has never had a diagnosed brain injury. Hes never been in a car accident or fallen off a roof. He never took steroids. After struggling in retirement with alcohol abuse for about six years, off and on, he hasnt had a drink in eight years. And hes only 43.When you live with someone with brain damage, you become highly attuned to your environment and develop an intimate relationship with your senses and intuition. Your hearing becomes excellent, almost unbearably keen, like a movie character who develops supernatural abilities overnight. Robs mood swings scare me sometimes, and I always have to be in tune with early signs of his agitation. I try to protect him from stress so he wont be overwhelmed. Its exhausting.AdvertisementOur fights went in bizarre circles and were never resolved. He would be irrationally upset about one thing but would quickly lose track and begin rambling about something that had no connection to the topic at hand. Every argument we had ended with me thinking: This isnt normal. This is not what couples fight about. Somethings wrong.And the arguments were always the same. It was as if our lives were on a loop, like some song thats been left on repeat for years. That sort of repetition has a tremendous ability to make you feel like youre going insane. And maybe, you wonder, you are.He was losing touch with reality and was getting more and more paranoid. The first time he accused me of stealing loose change from his nightstand I was speechless. And when I told him how illogical it would be for me to do such a thing, he looked at me with even more suspicion. But his paranoia didnt end there. It would leave me with a heaviness in my chest that made me sob without warning.He went from being a devoted and loving father and husband to someone who felt like a ghost in our home. For a couple of months one winter he was so depressed and detached, he couldnt muster up the energy to speak. My questions went unanswered until I simply stopped asking them. The silence was unnerving.So we were relieved when, in January 2013, we were told that the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle N.F.L. player retirement plan and supplemental disability plan had awarded him total and permanent disability benefits. His benefits were listed as degenerative, which establishes that his disability arises out of league football activities and had manifested within 15 years of his last season. He is entitled to monthly payments for the rest of his life. (These payments are separate from the estimated $1 billion settlement of concussion-related lawsuits with thousands of retired players, for which we have registered.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The examining clinician found that repeated concussion is very likely to have caused Mr. Kellys neuropsychological dysfunction, and also that his prior alcohol abuse may have been a factor. But he has not had a single drop of alcohol for eight years, and his condition continues to deteriorate.After years of little to no sleep, he alternated between sleeping either three hours a night or 20. Id wake up to find every blind and curtain in the house closed and Rob sitting on the sofa with a blank expression on his face. He no longer felt comfortable driving, refused to leave the house and cut off contact with everyone.Specific details about how he wanted his funeral to be, and his demand that he be cremated, were brought up with excruciating frequency. One particularly dark time, he went five days without eating anything; he drank only water and a few swigs of chocolate milk. He was suffering deeply and barely surviving. My love and affection seemed to offer no comfort or solace. I felt helpless.It wasnt until I joined a private Facebook group of more than 2,400 women, all connected in some way to current or former N.F.L. players, that I realized I wasnt alone.AdvertisementOur stories are eerily similar, our loved ones symptoms almost identical: the bizarre behavior I had tried to ignore, the obsessive laundering of old clothes — our washing machine ran from morning till night.It was comforting and terrifying all at the same time. Why did so many of us see the same strange behaviors? Our neurologist said they do it to calm their brains, one friend told me.Symptoms consistent with C.T.E. are a recurring topic in the Facebook group. They include memory loss, confusion, impaired judgment, aggression, depression and anxiety. These problems become apparent sometimes years or even decades after a player hangs up his helmet.One woman may write a post, desperate and afraid of the man her husband is becoming — the rage, mood swings, depression, memory loss. A man so drastically different from the one she once knew. Hundreds of comments will follow, woman after woman confirming that she is going through the exact same thing.While the symptoms and behaviors are telling, C.T.E. can be conclusively diagnosed only posthumously, because it requires the close examination of brain tissue. But many of us, including me, are convinced our husbands suffer from the disease. We try to comfort one another with the same words: Just know youre not alone.I dont think the public has any idea how widespread this problem truly is. Rob and I hope that, in telling our story, we might help other families. There are likely to be hundreds of wives and partners of football players, maybe more, who live a life like mine. Sadly, there is a feeling of shame among those affected, in both the men and their families.But who these men have become is not who they are, and I write that with conviction. The symptoms they display are beyond their control and occur through no fault of their own. These men chose football, but they didnt choose brain damage.I used to read all the articles about C.T.E., all the stories about football players committing suicide. Id skim the comments to see remarks like: They know what they signed up for and Of course football is bad for the brain, everyone knows that.But when all those big hits happened and the fans cheered, did they cheer despite knowing a man just greatly increased his risk for dementia? Was anyone worried about an A.L.S. diagnosis or a C.T.E.-related suicide at 40 after their favorite player suffered repeated blows to the head on the field? No, they cheered and they celebrated because they didnt know. And neither did we.Emily Kelly lives in Boulder, Colo.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. A version of this op-ed appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page SR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Football Destroyed My Husbands Mind.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 21, 2018
Good Wednesday. Heres what were watching:• What it takes to be a whistle-blower.• Broadcom whacks Qualcomm for raising its NXP bid.• Untangling the productivity mystery.• How Skadden got involved in the special counsels Russia inquiry.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.Sigmund Freud is reputed to have said that sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. The Supreme Court took that approach in deciding what is required to qualify for protection from retaliation as a whistle-blower.A provision in the Dodd-Frank Act defines a whistle-blower as someone who provides information relating to a violation of the securities laws to the Commission. That seems simple enough, but the Securities and Exchange Commission made something of a hash out of the requirement by taking an expansive view in a rule aimed at protecting an employee from retaliation even if the person only reports information internally.AdvertisementIn Digital Realty Trust v. Somers, a former employee of Digital Realty, Paul Somers, claimed he was terminated after he reported possible securities law violations to senior management. Although he never alerted anyone outside the company, Mr. Somers filed a lawsuit claiming his termination violated the anti-retaliation provision by relying on the S.E.C.s rule.AdvertisementThe Supreme Court, in an opinion by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, rejected that reading of the statute. It applied a simple analysis: Courts are not at liberty to dispense with the condition—tell the S.E.C.—Congress imposed. By not reporting his suspicions to the S.E.C., he lost the protection afforded whistleblowers.One of the complaints expressed by companies when the S.E.C. considered the whistle-blower rules was that they did not require employees to report information to management first. The incentive created by the Digital Realty ruling is straightforward: Dont just tell your boss about possible violations; make a beeline to the S.E.C.s front door, at least if you want protection from retaliation.— Peter J. HenningThe Dow Jones industrial average rose 139 points in the half-hour after the Federal Reserve released the minutes of its most recent policy meeting at 2 p.m. and was up more than 300 points on the day. Then the index sank 455 points in the final 90 minutes to close down 0.67 percent for the day.Why?There didnt appear to be anything in the minutes to make investors particularly bearish or bullish.Perhaps the bond market was to blame for the plunge. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which rises as its price falls, kept climbing after the minutes came out, closing at 2.95 percent. Higher bond yields can make stocks look more expensive, prompting investors to sell. As a result, Wednesdays mini move indicates that the tug of war between the stock and bond markets is still very much on.While were on the Fed minutes, it appears that the central banks policymakers did not spend much time discussing an indicator that is flashing a warning sign. The data point in question is the saving rate, which recently sank to a 12-year low. With the rate at 2.4 percent of disposable income, a big drop in the stock market, like the one that occurred earlier this month, could prompt consumers to cut their spending. The Feds policymakers did not appear overly worried about the saving rate at their last meeting, which was held before the markets plunge. The minutes state:In connection with solid growth in consumer spending, a couple of participants noted that the household saving rate had declined to its lowest level since 2005, likely driven by buoyant consumer sentiment or expectations that the rise in household wealth would be sustained.— Peter EavisQualcomm defied Broadcoms demand not to raise its takeover bid for NXP on Tuesday by increasing that offer by about 16 percent, to $127.50 a share from $110. Now Broadcom has retaliated.Broadcom shaved $3 per share off its hostile takeover bid for Qualcomm, to $79.Broadcoms rationale is that the new NXP offer transfers value away from Qualcomms shareholders. From the news release:Broadcom believes that a responsible Qualcomm board could have preserved value by following ISSs clear recommendation to work with Broadcom on the NXP transaction and negotiate the sale of Qualcomm to Broadcom. Instead Qualcomms board acted against the best interests of its stockholders by unilaterally transferring excessive value to NXPs activist stockholders.Lets take a look at the mathAdvertisement• Broadcom argues that Qualcomm gave up $4.10 a share, or $6.2 billion, in value to NXP shareholders. In response, it cut its price. At $79 a share, Broadcoms current offer is just under 13 percent higher than its original offer. (Of course, other elements of Broadcoms last bid — the $8 billion breakup fee for antitrust reasons, the ticking fee if a deal takes more than 12 months to close — still stand.)• Broadcom also contends privately that had Qualcomm agreed to start deal talks, the two of them could have held firm against NXP shareholders like Elliott Management and Soroban Capital Partners. By giving up less negotiating power to the holdout shareholders, the argument goes, Qualcomm could have recut the NXP deal at a far lower price.• Qualcomm argues privately that the $4.10 a share is nonsense, since the NXP deal a) wasnt going to get done at $110 a share and b) will still add to its earnings per share price starting in the 2019 fiscal year.The bet on the shareholder meetingBroadcom had previously said that it would walk away if the NXP offer went above $110 a share, but now seems content to take its chances at Qualcomms annual shareholder meeting.Broadcom wants six seats on Qualcomms board. That campaign gained momentum when the proxy advisers I.S.S. and Glass Lewis recommended that Qualcomm shareholders vote for at least four of its director nominees.A Qualcomm representative didnt have an immediate comment.How the shares moved today: Qualcomms were down 1.5 percent, while Broadcoms were up slightly. Shares in NXP — the real winner in this deal saga so far — were essentially unchanged.— Michael de la MercedThe deals flyaround• Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason pressed Xerox to pursue alternatives to its complicated deal with Fujifilm. (Reuters)• HNA has borrowed from the private equity firm Pacific Alliance Group, a sign that it may be struggling to raise capital from more traditional sources. (FT)
            But might the return to full employment fuel a rebound?        FEB. 20, 2018
An economy is doing well when companies each year manage to become more productive, or in other words, get more output from their employees and equipment. But productivity for years has grown far more slowly than it did in the past, effectively restraining economic growth. This decline has prompted economists to hunt for causes – and the latest big work on the issue comes from the McKinsey Global Institute. The Upshots Neil Irwin does a great job of explaining McKinseys main finding:The latest wrinkle is that the researchers now believe that productivity growth depends not just on the supply side of the economy — what companies produce and what technologies they use to do it — but also significantly on the demand side. That is to say, productivity advancements dont happen in a vacuum just because technology is available. They also happen because companies need to increase production to match demand for their goods, and a shortage, either of workers or of materials, forces them to think creatively about how to do so.Little in economics is straightforward, however, and McKinseys deep dive prompted a couple of questions. Jaana Remes, one of the authors of the work, was kind enough to respond.Advertisement1) In its report, McKinsey notes that the slow down in productivity growth was noticeable before the financial crisis. What caused that? And to what degree did those causes contribute to the decline in productivity growth after the financial crisis? This is important because these forces could continue to weigh on productivity.In the years leading up to 2008, the productivity improvements that started in the 1990s with the introduction of information technology were largely complete, Ms. Remes explains. Important new technologies can often take well over 10 years to have a big impact on productivity, she adds. The optimistic take, though, is that we can in the coming years expect to see big benefits as companies further automate, and introduce artificial intelligence.2) If a sluggish economy can create the conditions for weak productivity, why did France, Spain and Italy, whose economies were anemic in the period under study, have significantly better productivity performances than faster-growing countries?First, the numbers: From 2010 to 2014, labor productivity grew by 1.4 percent a year in Spain and 1 percent in France, well in excess of the negative 0.2 percent rate for Britain and the United States. Why was that? Because Britain and the United States had made superior productivity gains before 2010. That made it harder for the two countries to notch similarly strong productivity growth in the years after the financial crisis. By contrast, France and Spain, which had made far fewer productivity gains before 2010, were able to eke out at least some afterward. Ms. Remes also points out that a big cause of Spains post-2010 gain came from a reduction in hours worked. That might be described as the least desirable way to bolster productivity because it implies a reduction in incomes for workers. The most economically beneficial type of productivity gain occurs when output per employee increases as hours worked grow.— Peter EavisNew research posted by Frances central bank, the Banque de France, shows that the largest companies in the United States now account for a significantly larger share of production. This dominance, the paper asserts, could allow the companies to enjoy monopoly rents, the term economists use to describe the subsidies companies enjoy if their business is protected in ways that are not available to other firms.If these firms hold a dominant position in their market, they enjoy monopoly rents and have little incentive to invest in order to increase their productive capacities. This behavior could explain the weakness of investment in recent years, despite the high rates of return on capital.David Wessel, writing for Harvard Business Review, also recently took a look at whether dominant companies are holding the economy back.— Peter EavisThe largest United States bank by assets announced that it plans to tear down its current headquarters at 270 Park Ave. and build 2.5 million square-foot modern tower in its place.AdvertisementThe new headquarters has yet to be designed, but it is expected, according to Bloomberg, to be between 70 and 75 stories and house 15,000 employees. The current headquarters was designed in the late 1950s for about 3,500 employees, JPMorgan said.During construction, employees will be temporarily moved 237, 245 and 277 Park Ave. and 383 and 390 Madison Ave., Bloomberg reported citing a person familiar with the matter.The tower would be the first major project under New York Citys Midtown East rezoning plan, designed to encourage office construction in the area.The job recruiting site said Wednesday that it has hired Jim Cox as its C.F.O., as part of a series of high-level executive appointments.Mr. Cox was most recently at Lithium Technologies, a maker of customer relationship management software.Heres what Robert Hohman, Glassdoors C.E.O. and co-founder, said: We are pleased to welcome Jim to Glassdoor as our new CFO as he brings a proven track record of building and managing financial operations and teams at high-growth technology companies.Glassdoor also appointed Christian Sutherland-Wong, most recently its general manager of monetization, as its first chief operating officer, and Samantha Zupan, a longtime executive, as its vice president of global corporate communications.— Michael de la MercedThe giant law firms work for the former Trump campaign manager — who has been charged with several criminal acts by Robert Muellers inquiry into Russian election interference — has come into question after a former Skadden associate entered a guilty plea in the investigation.AdvertisementMore from Kenneth Vogel and Andrew Kramer of the NYT:The interest from prosecutors in what Skadden did for the Ukrainian government is one indication of the wide-ranging nature of the inquiries related to Mr. Manafort. It also highlights the risks associated with advising authoritarian governments overseas, a lucrative sideline among Washington lawyers, lobbyists and public relations consultants.Skaddens response: It fired the associate in question, Alex van der Zwaan, last year, and is cooperating with Mr. Muellers team.Elsewhere in Russian election meddling: Heres what we still dont know about Facebooks role. Chris Hughes, a co-founder, said Facebook must do more to prevent foreign interference. President Trump blamed Barack Obama for not being tougher on Russia. And meet the  oligarch who helped fund Russias troll agency.The judge overseeing the Justice Departments lawsuit to block the $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner denied AT&Ts request to see government communications about the case. He ruled that AT&T had not made a credible showing that the White House had singled it out for retribution.More from Cecilia Kang of the NYT:The decision puts a crimp in AT&Ts defense for its $85 billion proposed merger with Time Warner. And it is a big win for the Justice Department, which would like to avoid attention on the role of politics in its decision to stop the deal.AT&T had already agreed to take the Justice Departments antitrust chief, Makan Delrahim, off the witness list — but could call him during the trial if needed.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The trial begins March 19.Symptom A: Albertsons buying Rite Aid to gain scale and enter the pharmacy businessSymptom B: Walmarts online sales growing just 23 percent in the fourth quarter, after it splashed out on Jet.com, Bonobos and moreMore from Michael Corkery and Chad Bray of the NYT:Its the battle of the old generation versus the new generation, said Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, a retail consulting firm. And right now the companies that are gaining share is the new generation.Critics corner• Of Walmart, Jennifer Saba of Breakingviews writes, Longer term, failure online is an existential risk. But Elizabeth Winkler of Heard on the Street says, Given its huge size, investors need to temper their growth expectations.• Of the Rite Aid deal, Max Nisen and Tara Lachapelle of Gadfly write, There arent a lot of appealing options out there, and Albertsons had largely exhausted them.AdvertisementElsewhere in Amazon news• Why would Amazon employees working on the HQ2 search be interested in an article about Arlington, Va.? Hmm. (ARL Now)• Amazon now sells its own line of over-the-counter drugs. (CNBC)• A closer look at Jeff Bezoss 10,000-year clock. (CNBC)• Start-ups that take money from the Alexa Fund should still fear Amazons competition. (The Information)• Mr. Trump ordered the Justice Department to regulate bump stocks. But the Florida legislature rejected a bill that would have banned many semiautomatic weapons and large-capacity magazines. And a Florida teachers pension plan had held a stake in the maker of the rifle used in the Parkland school shooting.• A clampdown by John Kelly on interim security clearances has upset Jared Kushner, who has one. (NYT)• The advocacy group Common Cause filed complaints with the Justice Department and the Federal Election Commission over reports of $150,000 being paid to a former Playboy Playmate who said she had an affair with Mr. Trump. (WSJ)• The Trump administration wants to sell nuclear reactors to Saudi Arabia, even though the kingdom wont accept nonproliferation restrictions. (WSJ)• The U.S. sold $179 billion worth of debt yesterday, now that the debt ceiling is no longer an immediate issue. (Bloomberg)From Peter Eavis:For the first time — and after much protest — public companies must report their employees median pay and compare it with that of their C.E.O.s. (Its thanks to Dodd-Frank.)AdvertisementHoneywell disclosed last week that its C.E.O., Darius Adamczyk, took home $16.8 million last year, 333 times median employee pay.Ratios at other companies:• Teva Pharmaceuticals was 302:1• Apollo Global Managements was 1:1 (if you exclude, as Apollo did, Leon Blacks $91 million in dividends from his stock holdings)From Matthew Goldstein:A Manhattan federal judge rejected a motion by his Point72 Asset Management to temporarily seal the complaint in a sexual discrimination lawsuit against the firm by Lauren Bonner, an employee who described the firm as a testosterone-fueled boys club.The judge said the request was not narrowly tailored and ran counter to the presumption of public access to court records.Point72 is trying to push the case into arbitration, and said the complaint revealed details of other employees compensation.Elsewhere in sexual misconduct: Sports Illustrated published an investigation into a corrosive culture inside the Dallas Mavericks N.B.A. franchise.• How the founders of a price comparison site ended up as antitrust crusaders taking on Google. (NYT)Advertisement• The dominance of tech giants like Facebook and Amazon could harm productivity and economic growth, according to Banque de France. And George Soross Open Society organization is examining ways to push back against those companies.• Apple is in talks to buy directly from miners to secure long-term supplies of cobalt, according to unnamed sources. (Its vital for batteries.) But dont expect the Democratic Republic of Congo to become a real-life Wakanda.• Facebook and Twitter fall short in enforcing rules against impersonation. (NYT)• A.I. is getting cheaper to make — and to manipulate. (NYT)• Spotifys co-founders plan to keep control through super-voting shares, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• Google has revamped its payments service to better compete against Apple Pay Cash. (CNBC)The embattled country is pushing ahead with the presale of the petro, backed by its oil reserves, hoping to pay down debt and increase imports. President Nicolás Maduro called it a cryptocurrency to take on Superman. But few people give it much hope.Some questions: Would buying the currency run afoul of U.S. sanctions? Can you trust the Venezuelan government to maintain the link between the petro and oil reserves? And how will pricing work?Elsewhere in digital money• Long Blockchain — yes, that company — replaced its C.E.O. and announced plans to spin off its iced beverages business, while trying to avoid being delisted by Nasdaq.• Airbus and Mercedes-Benz have hired a blockchain consultancy run by U.C. Berkeley students. (The Information)Advertisement• Hackers broke into a Tesla-owned Amazon cloud account to use it for mining virtual currencies. (Fortune)• You missed your chance of free Bitcoins. (Reuters)And Bitcoins at $11,308.70 today, according to CoinMarketCap.• Jeff Hildebrand, the billionaire oil mogul, has stepped down as the C.E.O. of Hilcorp, though hell remain executive chairman. (Bloomberg)• The C.E.O. of Gaps namesake brand, Jeff Kirwan, has stepped down as the label continues to struggle. (WSJ)• The C.E.O. of the Mayo Clinic, John Noseworthy, plans to step down by year end. (Axios)• A Republican plan to let people pay for time off with a new baby by collecting social security benefits early has raised concerns about putting women into more precarious positions in retirement. (NYT)• If the U.S. had to face a recession, it would have few stabilizing tools at its disposal. (NYT)• The Weinstein Company has formally responded to one of the class-action lawsuits it faces, saying Harvey Weinstein acted alone and that the statute of limitations had run out on some of the claims. (Deadline)• The slide in the dollar has less to do with U.S. policies and fundamentals and more to do with investors preferring turnaround stories in Europe and Japan, says Goldman Sachs. (Bloomberg)• Outstanding Hospitality Management, which operates airport restaurant spaces, sued the Kushner Companies over a planned food hall at the former NYT Building in Manhattan. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• Li Yonghong, owner of the soccer club A.C. Milan, denied reports in the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera that he was selling assets to settle debts. (BBC)• Ray Dalios $22 billion bet is against large European companies, but ones with far more economic exposure to the rest of the world than to Europe. (FT)• Glencore is grappling with how to pay Dan Gertler, a former partner who has been placed under sanctions by the U.S. government. It will owe him as much as $200 million in royalties over two years. (WSJ)Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MAGGIE HABERMANJAN. 30, 2018
Hillary Clinton said on Tuesday night that she should have fired a top aide in her 2008 presidential campaign accused of sexual harassment.I very much understand the question Im being asked as to why I let an employee on my 2008 campaign keep his job despite his inappropriate workplace behavior, Mrs. Clinton said in a statement on Facebook. The short answer is this: If I had it to do again, I wouldnt.Mrs. Clintons expression of regret over the way she handled the allegations against the aide, Burns Strider, came less than a week after it was first reported  that she had overruled a recommendation from two campaign advisers that he be dismissed. The report of her actions has touched off an extended debate on the responsibilities of the most prominent woman in American politics when confronted with sexual harassment.She posted the lengthy statement about 15 minutes before President Trump entered the House chamber to deliver his first State of the Union address.AdvertisementMr. Strider, who was Mrs. Clintons faith-based adviser and who has frequently sent her scripture readings over the last several years, was accused by a younger female subordinate of repeated sexual harassment in late 2007. The two advisers, after researching the complaint, recommended that he be fired.AdvertisementIn the end, Mrs. Clinton said, I decided to demote him, docking his pay; separate him from the woman; assign her to work directly for my then deputy campaign manager; put in place technical barriers to his emailing her; and require that he seek counseling. He would also be warned that any subsequent harassment of any kind toward anyone would result in immediate termination.I did this because I didnt think firing him was the best solution to the problem, she said. He needed to be punished, change his behavior and understand why his actions were wrong. The young woman needed to be able to thrive and feel safe. I thought both could happen without him losing his job. I believed the punishment was severe and the message to him unambiguous.About five years later, Mr. Strider was hired to lead a super PAC supporting Mrs. Clinton and run by a key ally, David Brock. He was fired from that group after he was accused by another young woman of sexual harassment.Sometimes, she added, second chances are squandered: In this case, while there were no further complaints against him for the duration of the campaign, several years after working for me, he was terminated from another job for inappropriate behavior. That reoccurrence troubles me greatly, and it alone makes clear that the lesson I hoped he had learned while working for me went unheeded.Mrs. Clinton said that at the time I believed the punishment I imposed was severe and fit the offense. She added that employers today would be well served to take actions at least as severe when confronted with problems now and said that included the very media outlet that broke this story — a reference to The New York Times.They recently opted to suspend and reinstate one of their journalists who exhibited similarly inappropriate behavior, rather than terminate him, she said. A decade from now, that decision may not look as tough as it feels today.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mrs. Clinton was referring to Glenn Thrush, a reporter for The Times who was removed from the White House beat and suspended without pay for two months after he faced accusations of  inappropriate sexual behavior. He returned to work this week.Mrs. Clinton did not break off her relationship with Mr. Strider. He attended a party for Mrs. Clintons recent book, What Happened, and she acknowledged him in the book.AdvertisementIn an interview with BuzzFeed, Mr. Strider said about his conduct toward the woman in the campaign, I didnt consider it excessive, but that doesnt mean it wasnt to her.Mrs. Clinton said that the woman told her in a call on Friday that she felt pleased with how the situation was adjudicated at the time and that she felt as if she had been heard.I was inspired by my conversation with this young woman to express my own thinking on the matter, she said. As for why she had waited until Tuesday night to express it, she said, The answer is simple: Ive been grappling with this and thinking about how best to share my thoughts.Noting that the episode was unusual in that a woman complained to a woman who brought the issue to a woman who was the ultimate decision maker, she asked: Does a woman have a responsibility to come down even harder on the perpetrator? I dont know. But I do believe that a woman boss has an extra responsibility to look out for the women who work for her, and to better understand how issues like these can affect them.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Clinton Says She Regrets Not Firing Faith Aide.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JOSHUA M. BERNSTEINFEB. 22, 2018
Michael Oxtons father-in-law usually drinks Miller High Life, and doesnt care much for craft beer. For most families this would be no big deal. Mr. Oxton, however, is a founder of Night Shift Brewing, a Boston-area company noted for its fragrant I.P.A.s and other big-flavored beers.So last fall, when Mr. Oxton offered his father-in-law, Anthony DiPalma, a retired New York Police Department lieutenant, a taste of Night Shifts newest product, Village Lager, expectations were scant.But Mr. DiPalma loved it. He was like, I would drink that all day long, Mr. Oxton recalled.He thinks thats because Village Lager tastes like a familiar mass-produced lager — only with more flavor. The beer is balanced and bready, with faint bitterness.AdvertisementNothing stands out, but its an incredibly delicious, easy-drinking experience, Mr. Oxton said. While craft beers can seem exclusive to some drinkers, theres something very un-snobby about it.AdvertisementVillage Lager is inspired by zwickelbier, a centuries-old style of unfiltered German lager named after the spigot that brewers use to taste still-fermenting beer. In a business brimming with over-the-top I.P.A.s and aggressive stouts, American brewers are embracing German tradition to create beers that they believe can have broader appeal.Its cool to take something thats been done for hundreds of years and all of the sudden its fresh and cool, said Ryan Crisp, the head brewer at AleSmith Brewing in San Diego.For centuries, German breweries have made unfiltered beers, from malt-rich lagers to wheat ales evocative of bananas and cloves. Though their alcohol levels are moderate, they have multifaceted flavor; the residual yeast and proteins supply a fuller body and a cloudy hue.Recently, AleSmith has started making kellerbiers, a closely related type of unfiltered German ales and lagers. (Theyre named for the cool cellars where the beers were matured, and are often more assertive than zwickelbiers.)Mr. Crisps keller-style pilsners and Mexican lagers are fermented for shorter periods of time; yeast and proteins remain in the finished product, floating in suspension. The kellerbiers, served directly from the conditioning tanks at AleSmiths taproom, have a youthful vibrancy. They are raw and lively without being rough-edged.Theres something about the creaminess and different flavors you get, Mr. Crisp said.Suarez Family Brewerys sun-soaked taproom, about 12 miles south of Hudson, N.Y., has a tap list that tilts toward unfiltered lagers, like the darkly roasty Bone Shirt and the hop-forward Qualify Pils. Its giving a consumer a beers freshest expression, said Dan Suarez, who founded the brewery in 2016 with his wife, Taylor Cocalis.With unfiltered beers, freshness doesnt mean they always taste best on Day 1. The flavors of Mr. Suarezs yeast-rich lagers evolve over several months.AdvertisementIts a different drinking experience from week to week. At one and a half or two months, theyre gorgeous, Mr. Suarez said, noting that he favors his own pilsners with one or two weeks of age.Mr. Suarez prefers to describe his lagers as unfiltered instead of using the German jargon. I have this rule that I dont like to use a foreign word, he said. I think the word unfiltered helps convey what the beer is better than the term zwickel pils.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Other breweries proudly wave the keller and zwickel flag. Buoyed by brisk demand, Summit Brewing Company, in St. Paul, Minn., made its Keller Pils a year-round offering in January. Last year, Green Flash, of San Diego, released its Sea to Sea Lager — the label calls it a zwickel lager nationwide.Zwickel is just a fun word to say, said Erik Jensen, the brewmaster at Green Flash, which specializes in flavorful I.P.A.s. The low-alcohol lager filled a void in the brewerys portfolio, as well as its brewers refrigerators. We wanted to make sure we could have something we really wanted to drink, Mr. Jensen said.For American brewers accustomed to lobbing grenades at orthodoxy, producing zwickel and keller beers is especially appealing. What these loosely affiliated beers share is a general approach rather than rigid stylistic guidelines.Zwickelbier is really open to interpretation, said Nick Griffin, the head brewer at Five Boroughs Brewing Co., in Brooklyn. Last year, he brewed a zwickelbier with New York State hops, then aged the lager in red-wine barrels for several months, adding a tannic nuance. There are not these strict rules that are pushing brewers from one direction or another, he said.The revived appeal of zwickelbier and kellerbier has not been lost on European brewers. Last year, the beer importer Artisanal Imports brought several unfiltered German beers to the American market, including a canned kellerbier called Grevensteiner Original.Consider it a return to more classical methods of making beer. If you take the long-range view, thats what beer drinking has been all about, said Mark Stratton, Artisanals German portfolio manager. Theres nothing new under the sun, as they say, but this seems new to a lot of people.Here is a selection of kellerbiers and zwickelbiers to sample.Two Roads Brewing Co. Miles 2 Go Unfiltered Pale Lager Stratford, Conn., 12 ounces, $2AdvertisementAromas of warm toast, topped by an herbal bitterness, define this distinguished, smooth lager.Urban Chestnut Brewing Company Zwickel St. Louis, 16 ounces, $3 to $4This creamy, Bavarian-style lager has notes of dough, honey and grass.Brauhaus Riegele Kellerbier Augsburg, Germany, 500 milliliters, $3English yeast is used in this fruity, caramel-accented ale from a family-owned brewery founded in 1386. (Luxe Brands, New York City.)Notch Brewing Zwickel Beer Stowe, Vt., 16 ounces, $2.50The lager specialists classic rendition balances biscuity sweetness with a spicy pop.Crooked Stave Artisan Beer Project Von Pilsner Denver, Colo., 12 ounces, $2Pudding-smooth with a handsome poofy head, this lightly lemony pilsner is a great value.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Unfiltered, Unpretentious and Gaining Ground.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

JAN. 26, 2018

By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
  For a man who insists he has done nothing wrong, President Trump sure acts as if he has something big to hide.
    Mr. Trumps attempt to  fire the special counsel, Robert Mueller, last June – which he backed off only when the White House counsel, Donald McGahn, threatened to resign over it – is only the latest in a long string of firings and lies that establish an undeniable pattern:

  The president of the United States has tried repeatedly to shut down an investigation into whether his campaign coordinated with Russian officials to help him win the 2016 election.

    Lets review:
  Mr. Trump may call this behavior fighting back, but the federal criminal code would almost surely call it obstructing justice — an offense that has led to the resignation of one president and the impeachment of another.Maybe thats why, on Friday morning, Mr. Trump took a different tack, dismissing the reports that he tried to fire Mr. Mueller as fake news — meaning, real news that makes him look bad. But even Sean Hannity, who would plunk down cash for the Brooklyn Bridge if Mr. Trump tried to sell it to him, eventually had to admit it was true. Other defenders of the president have argued it was no big deal. Hey, this happened seven months ago, and he didnt even follow through!But he did follow through with firing Mr. Comey. If there were any remaining doubt that he did so for an innocent reason, Thursdays news snuffed it out. Mr. Trumps claim that he wanted Mr. Mueller gone because of his supposed conflicts of interest, which included a claimed dispute long ago over fees at one of Mr. Trumps golf clubs, is not worth taking seriously.At least three important questions remain. First, why is this incident coming to light only now? Mr. Trumps desire to get rid of the special counsel was reported months ago, as was his advisers efforts to talk him down from such a catastrophic move, but both the president and the White House have consistently denied taking any steps in that direction. Last August, Mr. Trump was asked by reporters whether he had considered firing Mr. Mueller. I havent given it any thought, he said.Perhaps people close to the president are trying to ensure that when he testifies before Mr. Mueller, as he has said he would love to do, he doesnt insist on his alternative facts and put himself at risk of a perjury charge. Or perhaps, as the investigation closes in on the White House, there is a growing fear that the president is liable to act rashly, especially as he is being goaded daily by congressional Republicans and the right-wing media machine. If this latest revelation serves only to provide Mr. Mueller with greater job protection, thats a good thing.Second, why the repeated lies by Mr. Trump and his associates about the contacts with Russian officials? Maybe they truly believed they did nothing illegal during the campaign and transition, but thought it would be embarrassing for the contacts to become public in light of the intelligence communitys finding that Russia attempted to interfere in the election. For this White House, though, mere public embarrassment has never seemed a source of chagrin.This leads to the third and most pressing question of all: If Mr. Trump and his associates are truly innocent of any wrongdoing, what are they so afraid of?Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementThe search for the missing grain led to Trinidad and Thomas Jefferson, and now excitement among African-American chefs.By KIM SEVERSONFEB. 13, 2018
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Among the biologists, geneticists and historians who use food as a lens to study the African diaspora, rice is a particularly deep rabbit hole. So much remains unknown about how millions of enslaved Africans used it in their kitchens and how it got to those kitchens to begin with.Thats what made the hill rice in Trinidad such a find.The fat, nutty grain, with its West African lineage and tender red hull, was a favored staple for Southern home cooks during much of the 19th century. Unlike Carolina Gold, the versatile rice that until the Civil War was Americas primary rice crop, the hill rice hadnt made Lowcountry plantation owners rich off the backs of slaves.It didnt need to be planted in watery fields surrounded by dikes, which meant that those who grew it werent dogged by malaria. You could grow it in a garden patch, as did many of the slaves who had been taken from the rice-growing regions of West Africa. This was the rice of their ancestors, sustaining slaves and, later, generations of Southern cooks both black and white.Even Thomas Jefferson was a fan. Some researchers think he is the one who helped spread hill rice throughout the South, giving gifts of the African seed from a 30-gallon cask a ship captain brought him from Africa in 1790. But by World War I, the rice had all but disappeared, a victim both of cheaper imports that were easier to produce and of the Great Migration, in which millions of African-Americans left the rural South.AdvertisementThats why B.J. Dennis, a Gullah chef from Charleston, was stunned to find the rice growing in a field in Trinidad, tended by a farmer descended from slaves who once lived in Georgia.Mr. Dennis had heard about hill rice — also known as upland red bearded rice or Moruga Hill rice — through the culinary organization Slow Food USA and the Carolina Gold Rice Foundation, the group that brought back Carolina Gold in the early 2000s. Hed also heard stories about it from elderly cooks in his community. Like everyone else, he thought the hill rice of the African diaspora was lost forever.But then, on a rainy morning in the Trinidad hills in December 2016, he walked past coconut trees and towering okra plants to the edge of a field with ripe stalks of rice, each grain covered in a reddish husk and sprouting spiky tufts.AdvertisementHere I am looking at this rice and I said: Wow. Wait a minute. This is that rice thats missing, he said.It is hard to overstate how shocked the people who study rice were to learn that the long-lost American hill rice was alive and growing in the Caribbean. Horticulturists at the Smithsonian Institution want to grow it, rice geneticists at New York University are testing it and the United States Department of Agriculture is reviewing it. If all goes well, it may become a commercial crop in America, and a menu staple as diners develop a deeper appreciation for African-American food.Its the most historically significant African diaspora grain in the Western Hemisphere, said David S. Shields, a professor at the University of South Carolina and chairman of the Carolina Gold Rice Foundation, who works with Mr. Dennis on historical culinary projects and was with him that rainy day in Trinidad.Mr. Dennis, 38, believes food is the living bearer of history. He has devoted himself to promoting the cooking of the Gullah-Geechee Nation, the descendants of West Africans who lived along the coast from North Carolina to North Florida. Their cooks created the peanut stews, okra-laced purloos and seafood that define Lowcountry cuisine.What I am doing is searching for my culture through food, he said.But how did the rice travel to that field in Trinidad? Dr. Shields has a theory.It begins during the War of 1812, when British soldiers promised land and freedom to a small group of West African slaves along the Eastern Seaboard if they would take up arms against their masters. They did, and each was given 16 acres of undeveloped land in southern Trinidad. They came to be called the Merikins, a Creole rendering of the word American.One group was the Fourth British Marine Company, from the Georgia Sea Islands. The rice, which Dr. Shields believes can be traced to Jeffersons barrel of seed, was among the crops the group brought with them to Trinidad.The missing piece of the puzzle would have not been found if it hadnt been for Trinidadian ethnobotanist Francis Morean, a man with Merikin roots who has recorded interviews with most of the 60 or so Merikins still growing hill rice on the island.FLorida400 milesBAHAMASAtlanticOceanCUBAPUERTORICOHAITIJAMAICADOMINICAN REPUBLICCaribbeanSeaArea of detailVENEZUELATOBAGO20 milesTRINIDAD AND TOBAGOCaribbeanSeaPort-of-SpainAtlanticOceanTRINIDADSan FernandoMorugaFEB. 18, 2018
Mr. Morean had traveled to the American South in September 2015 as part of his exploration of African diaspora cooking. He had heard about Mr. Dennis, but wasnt able to find him. Then, a few months later, Mr. Dennis reached out to him on Facebook, and the two bonded over their interest in using agriculture to keep their shared heritage alive.AdvertisementStill, no one had made the connection between the rice in Trinidad and the rice that had been lost in the American South. Most students of Gullah-Geechee cuisine thought Carolina Gold was the only rice that enslaved Africans in the coastal South had cooked.Mr. Morean organized a small rice symposium in Trinidad in the winter of 2016, and asked Dr. Shields to present a paper on the islands hill rice. Also on the guest list were Mr. Dennis and Queen Quet Marquetta L. Goodwine, the elected leader and official spokeswoman of the Gullah-Geechee Nation, who often employs Mr. Dennis to cook for official events.Dr. Shields, who is part of a global effort to find new ways to grow rice on dry land, began his research, and realized that the Trinidad hill rice might be linked to the missing American rice, which in turn could be traced all the way back to the West African rice fields.On that wet morning in Moruga, Trinidad, he had his answer.When I got out of the car and walked toward the field and saw the rice just about to be harvested, I knew it had to be the real thing, he said. It was like you see the story made flesh. You see something that has existed as really an abstract possibility suddenly become real.Glenn Roberts, the founder of Anson Mills, immediately jumped on board. There is no one as fanatic about Southern heirloom grains as Mr. Roberts, whose South Carolina company led the revival of Carolina Gold rice and several other Southern heirloom grains.Mr. Roberts arranged to have about 80 pounds of the Trinidad rice shipped to the United States. A few pounds made its way to Edouardo Jordan, the Southern chef who opened the restaurant Junebaby in Seattle last year. Mr. Jordan cooked with it and loved it.The rice performs differently in the kitchen than Carolina Gold, which works best in wet or creamy recipes like Hoppin John or risotto. Hill rice is better dry, with an okra stew or a sauté or chutney piled on top.AdvertisementMr. Jordan is so enamored that he is trying to find farmers in the Northwest to grow it, once the seed is approved by the Agriculture Department.If we can bring this back, he said, the historical back story could deepen the development of African diaspora food in America and better tell the real story of Southern food.At another rice symposium held by the Carolina Rice Foundation in April, Mr. Dennis prepared hill rice for everyone. He cooked it the way he had learned to during his time in Trinidad, simmering it in coconut water until the rice became starchy. Then he covered the rice with chutney made from grinding toasted benne seeds; an herb called shadow benne that is similar to cilantro; some birds-eye peppers, and garlic with a little oil. It was delicious.Like many a detective story, this one has some loose ends.Michael Purugganan, a New York University biology professor, was at the Charleston event. He had been part of a team that in 2015 sequenced the genomes of Oryza glaberrima, the African crop now grown by descendants of escaped slaves in the South American country Suriname, and connected it to rice that grew in Ivory Coast.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That discovery was concrete evidence of the high level of rice-growing knowledge among African slaves, and marked the first time genetics had been used to pinpoint the origin of a slave crop in the Americas.Could the Trinidadian rice be another example? Dr. Purugganan took the rice to his laboratory in Greenwich Village and sequenced its genes.It turned out not to be indigenous African glaberrima, but more likely a Japonica rice that made its way from Southeast Asia to West Africa between the 16th and 18th centuries.Amy Lawton-Rauh, a Clemson University professor of genetics and biochemistry who is working on the genetics of hill rice, is using population genomics tools to test whether the hill rice has a more complex history. It could even be a hybrid, she said, and not necessarily linked to Jeffersons rice.So much rice may have been passed around among slave families and descendants that there is no way to be certain where the seed originated, said Christopher Wilson, director of experience design at the Smithsonians National Museum of American History.AdvertisementIt might be too much to just give credit to Jefferson, Mr. Wilson said. We know about him because we have records. But people miss just how big rice was, and how much money was involved and how much history we have no written record of.Still, he is as excited as anyone about the hill rice. He has introduced Mr. Roberts to a horticulturist at the Smithsonian to grow and display some of the hill rice. Last summer, Mr. Wilson invited Mr. Roberts to discuss the rice alongside Michael Twitty, a culinary historian and the author of The Cooking Gene: A Journey Through African American Culinary History in the Old South at a Smithsonian event.Mr. Twitty, who first heard about the rice from Mr. Dennis, has embraced it. It fits in nicely with his work, which includes researching the links between Southern food and West African cooking.For the event, Mr. Twitty used it as the base for a chicken stew, made in the style of the Mende people of Sierra Leone, that he cooked with palm oil, onions and garlic. I dont really like brown rice at all, but its not like that, he said.His appreciation goes beyond taste: The rice helps validate the African experience in America. Its another living artifact that automatically wipes out any nonsense about the earliest years of African-American food, he said.For now, no one is growing the rice commercially, but Dr. Shields and Mr. Roberts hope it will be embraced by Gullah farmers, and spread from there. In the meantime, they hope to find an economical way to import it from growers in Trinidad.For Mr. Dennis, the chef, a steady supply would ensure that his purloos, like the rice-and-okra dish called Limpin Susan (often referred to as the cousin or wife of Hoppin John), would have a new dimension.He also hopes that the rice will eventually sell at a price that most cooks can afford, and that African-American home cooks will come to see the hill rice and other traditional dishes as healthier alternatives to a popular perception of soul food.AdvertisementWeve been warped into thinking its mac-and-cheese and collard greens, he said.African-American cooking, at least as defined in the Lowcountry, is about slow-cooked peas and vegetables and specific strains of rice, he said.Culturally, this rice is a hidden story of the African-American and enslaved narrative, he said. A lot of our ancestors were not able to read or write, so a lot of stories arent able to be told. But we can cook this rice, and we can tell the story.Recipe: Limpin Susan (Okra Stir-Fry With Rice)Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the chef at Junebaby in Seattle. He is Edouardo Jordan, not Eduardo. The article also misstated the year in which Mr. Jordan opened the restaurant. It was 2017, not 2016.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Rice Rich With  History.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Zeynep TufekciDid you make a New Years resolution to exercise more? Perhaps you downloaded a fitness app to help track your workouts, maybe one that allows you to share that data online with your exercise buddies?If so, you probably checked a box to accept the apps privacy policy. For most apps, the default setting is to share data with at least the company; for many apps the default is to share data with the public. But you probably didnt even notice or care. After all, what do you have to hide?For users of the exercise app Strava, the answer turns out to be a lot more than they realized. Since November, Strava has featured a global heat map showing where its users jogged or walked or otherwise traveled while the app was on. The map includes some three trillion GPS data points, covering more than 5 percent of the earth. Over the weekend, a number of security analysts showed that because many American military service members are Strava users, the map inadvertently reveals the locations of military bases and the movements of their personnel.Perhaps more alarming for the military, similar patterns of movement appear to possibly identify stations or airstrips in locations where the United States is not known to have such operations, as well as their supply and logistics routes. Analysts noted that with Stravas interface, it is relatively easy to identify the movements of individual soldiers not just abroad but also when they are back at home, especially if combined with other public or social media data.Apart from chastening the cybersecurity experts in the Pentagon, the Strava debacle underscores a crucial misconception at the heart of the system of privacy protection in the United States. The privacy of data cannot be managed person-by-person through a system of individualized informed consent.Data privacy is not like a consumer good, where you click I accept and all is well. Data privacy is more like air quality or safe drinking water, a public good that cannot be effectively regulated by trusting in the wisdom of millions of individual choices. A more collective response is needed.Part of the problem with the ideal of individualized informed consent is that it assumes companies have the ability to inform us about the risks we are consenting to. They dont. Strava surely did not intend to reveal the GPS coordinates of a possible Central Intelligence Agency annex in Mogadishu, Somalia — but it may have done just that. Even if all technology companies meant well and acted in good faith, they would not be in a position to let you know what exactly you were signing up for.Another part of the problem is the increasingly powerful computational methods called machine learning, which can take seemingly inconsequential data about you and, combining them with other data, can discover facts about you that you never intended to reveal. For example, research shows that data as minor as your Facebook likes can be used to infer your sexual orientation, whether you use addictive substances, your race and your views on many political issues. This kind of computational statistical inference is not 100 percent accurate, but it can be fairly close — certainly close enough to be used to profile you for a variety of purposes.A challenging feature of machine learning is that exactly how a given system works is opaque. Nobody — not even those who have access to the code and data — can tell what piece of data came together with what other piece of data to result in the finding the program made. This further undermines the notion of informed consent, as we do not know which data results in what privacy consequences. What we do know is that these algorithms work better the more data they have. This creates an incentive for companies to collect and store as much data as possible, and to bury the privacy ramifications, either in legalese or by playing dumb and being vague.What can be done? There must be strict controls and regulations concerning how all the data about us — not just the obviously sensitive bits — is collected, stored and sold. With the implications of our current data practices unknown, and with future uses of our data unknowable, data storage must move from being the default procedure to a step that is taken only when it is of demonstrable benefit to the user, with explicit consent and with clear warnings about what the company does and does not know. And there should also be significant penalties for data breaches, especially ones that result from underinvestment in secure data practices, as many now do.Companies often argue that privacy is what we sacrifice for the supercomputers in our pockets and their highly personalized services. This is not true. While a perfect system with no trade-offs may not exist, there are technological avenues that remain underexplored, or even actively resisted by big companies, that could allow many of the advantages of the digital world without this kind of senseless assault on our privacy.With luck, stricter regulations and a true consumer backlash will force our technological overlords to take this issue seriously and let us take back what should be ours: true and meaningful informed consent, and the right to be let alone.Zeynep Tufekci (@zeynep), an associate professor at the School of Information and Library Science at the University of North Carolina, is a contributing opinion writer and the author of Twitter and Tear Gas: The Power and Fragility of Networked Protest.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Megan Specia and Hwaida SaadAll of eastern Ghouta is underground. That is how one aid worker described the situation as thousands of people fled into basements and makeshift shelters in the rebel-held suburb of Damascus this week.Eastern Ghouta is under a brutal aerial assault by Syrian government forces that has left more than 200 people dead in recent days, including many children.As the war on the outskirts of the capital reached a new level of intensity, families huddle underground. For hours on end, they wait out the bombing, which shows no signs of slowing. The assault is the latest by President Bashar al-Assads forces on rebel-controlled areas in a seven-year civil war that has fractured the country.In other cities and towns once held by rebel groups, like Aleppo and Daraya, the government has used a similar tactic of bombarding infrastructure and residential areas to force a surrender of fighters and the relocation of civilians. The Syrian government says that there are few civilians left in eastern Ghouta, and that those who remain are being held as human shields — an assertion disputed by international human rights groups and activists on the ground. There are armed rebel groups active in the area, but Save the Children and the United Nations refugee agency estimate that some 350,000 civilians are caught up in the siege. Footage from local activists shows women and children gathered in basements, playing and cooking to pass the time. Some share audio recordings of the planes and helicopters buzzing overhead, issuing desperate pleas on social media and WhatsApp.In some parts of the sprawling suburb, the underground spaces are connected by tunnels. A local media activist, Firas Abdullah, filmed the scene as he made his way between the joined rooms on Wednesday. People here are hiding from the massive bombardment, he says in the video as he ducks his head to walk through the tight space.Mr. Abdullah, who has posted updates from the area for the past several years, said some women and children had been sheltering for more than 72 hours and were in need of food and water. He described the conditions as grave.Local humanitarian groups have relayed the same information to international partners: The safest place to be is underground.Sonia Khush, the Syria director for Save the Children, is based in Amman, Jordan, but has been working with local groups in eastern Ghouta for years. She said thousands of families had spent most of the week holed up in basements to avoid the bombs.The fact is that people are in these basements and shelters, but it doesnt even give them the mental comfort that they are going to be safe from these bombings, Ms. Khush said. Everyone is just terrified right now. While portions of the area have been subject to bombing since 2012, the recent surge of attacks is the worst there in years.  Above ground, hellish scenes are playing out. Footage posted on Monday by the Syrian Civil Defense, a group of emergency medical workers, showed people running for cover after a series of strikes.Many see the basements as the only haven in a hostile environment. They had little chance to evacuate, as the area has been blockaded for months. For Shadi Jad, a young father who has been in a basement since the beginning of the week, his shelter is a mixed blessing.Honestly, I feel the shelter is a grave, but its the only available way for protection, he said when reached on Tuesday.But Mr. Jad, who is hiding with his wife and eight other families, said that being in close quarters had also drawn his community together. We share stories, try to keep the fear away by telling some jokes, he said. The shelter makes the relationships deeper "Another group of local media activists shared photos of a family huddled underground on Wednesday, baking bread in a stove. Aid groups warn that conditions in the shelters could quickly deteriorate. They lack ventilation, electricity, running water and bathroom facilities. The Unified Medical Office in Ghouta — a local aid group that works in the area — said that those conditions could lead to health problems like respiratory diseases, lice and scabies.Even before the current bombardment, a United Nations report indicated that in some neighborhoods, the shelters had already become a public health concern.But people have little choice. Since Feb. 4, when the governments offensive began, 346 civilians have been killed and 878 injured, mostly in airstrikes hitting residential areas, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights said on Wednesday. Ninety-two of the deaths took place in one 13-hour period this week. Zeid Raad al-Hussein, the United Nations top human rights official, called for an end to the violence in a statement on Wednesday. These are hundreds of thousands of civilians who have been trapped for over five years under siege, suffering deprivation of their most basic needs, and are now facing relentless bombing, Mr. Hussein said. How much cruelty will it take before the international community can speak with one voice to say enough dead children, enough wrecked families, enough violence, and take resolute, concerted action to bring this monstrous campaign of annihilation to an end?Hoda Khayti, 29, has lived in eastern Ghouta her whole life, and said her family, like most of their neighbors, had spent much of the week in a basement. Twelve other families joined them in one cramped space. They could hear planes constantly passing overhead. The scariest moments are when rockets land, then silence follows, Ms. Khayti said when reached Wednesday on a Facebook video call. We feel our souls are leaving our bodies when the plane gets close, and we feel relieved after it goes away. They fear the bombs outside, but like Mr. Jad, Ms. Khayti said the shelter has become a place for the community to come together. They share food, blankets and stories while they wait for the sounds of planes overhead to trail off.Mom comes back from the shelter with lot of stories, like this woman got married, that had a baby, she said. But Ms. Khayti is sometimes hesitant to head down to the basement, because she is scared of being trapped. Often, she stays above ground in the family home while her parents and sister head to the shelter.I dont want to die in the basement, Ms. Khayti said. I saw a whole family die in the basement. That was last week.Megan Specia is a story editor on the International Desk, specializing in digital storytelling and breaking news.  @meganspeciaAdvertisementCredit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Bayard Wootten/North Carolina Collection, UNC Chapel Hill LibrariesIn 1904, a photographer in North Carolina lent a 4×5 camera to a divorced single mother. He shook his head and muttered several times that shed never make the grade. One year later, he viewed her as his competitor and took back his equipment. So, Bayard (pronounced BY-ard) Wootten, who until then had supported her family by selling small paintings and drawings, went out and bought her own camera. She made more than a million images in her life, said Anthony Lilly, who has written a biopic of Ms. Wootten using her old typewriter. She illustrated six books with her photography. Most of the government buildings in North and South Carolina used her wall mural photography. It was pictorial photography.Though known as a pictorialist (more of an art photographer than a straightforward documentarian), Ms. Wootten strayed from the unspoken rules set by Alfred Stieglitz, the father of pictorialism, in the early 20th century. Unlike Mr. Stieglitz, who was way up north in New York, Ms. Wootten did not oppose commercial photography. In fact, financial gain, believe it or not, was the chief reason she entered the industry, where she nonetheless notched several firsts in her career. Her first small studio was adjacent to her family home, where she focused on personal postcards, a thriving business at the time. Soon, she had earned enough to move to the business district. And after that, she moved to Camp Glenn, where she sought business from a National Guard summer training camp a few miles away. She sold thousands of postcards in just one summer and eventually asked if she could set up a small studio on the grounds. The general agreed and gave her the title of Chief of Publicity, which then made her the first woman in the North Carolina National Guard. She wore her uniform every day. It doesnt take much to imagine some of the challenges that she, the only woman in sight, faced at Camp Glenn. Military men called her names such as, Sandfiddler and Ole Campaigner, though she was in her early 30s.  So, what motivated her to keep going?Financial responsibility to her children and family as well as her drive to be made equal in the male-dominated career, Mr. Lilly said. That led Ms. Wootten to reportedly become the first woman to take an aerial photo in America. And, according to her son and Mr. Lilly, she even designed the original Pepsi-Cola logo for her next-door neighbor, who invented the soft drink. In 1928, Ms. Wootten moved to Chapel Hill, where she portrayed subjects unique to the South, most notably, including the photographic record of black and white Americans in the lower reaches of society, according to her biography Light and Air, by Jerry W. Cotton. In North Carolina you dont approach somebodys property, said Mr. Lilly. You figure in 1900 until late 1930s she was going into the back roads and approaching people and taking these pictures of former slaves, sharecroppers, tobacco workers.She was helped in her work by her ability to put people at ease.No one was ever alarmed when she came in, said Joe Eudy, Ms. Woottens close friend who worked at one of her studios in Chapel Hill. She could go to the mountains of North Carolina and those people are mighty skittish about people they dont know, but they would invite her to spend the night and have supper. She just had a way of talking to people.Ms. Wootten, who died in 1959, was a uniquely southern artist, the kind Sally Mann described in her autobiography, Hold Still, as having a susceptibility to myth and their obsession with place, family, death and the past. Ghosts haunt the exposure tricks of Ms. Woottens earlier plates while the southern sky hangs over several generations of family. Toward the end of her life, as she started to go blind and deaf, she retired to New Bern and lived with Mr. Eudy, whose wife was her niece. She was a wonderful person and loved to talk about deep things like philosophy and religion, said Mr. Eudy. She also drank wine every night. She drank Redman Wines, which came from the grocery stores. And she smoked cigarettes, one after the other, and played gin rummy by herself.Even after she suffered an eye hemorrhage in the late 1940s when she was in her 70s, and she could no longer carry her camera around, she continued to work in her studio, washing and drying prints, making proofs, and talking to customers. I have always been chasing something, she wrote in a letter to a mentor. But one of the surprises that life has held for me is that I am happier as an old woman than I ever was as a young one. Perhaps the reason for this is that I realized now it does not matter whether we arrive. The joy is in the going. Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryWith Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 15, 2018
Happy Thursday. Heres what were watching:• Harrys wants to take on P.&G.• Are rising rates good or bad for stocks?• How Mick Mulvaney is softening the C.F.P.B• Steven Mnuchin is promising to quickly shut down hedge funds latest tax dodge.• Why is Peter Thiel abandoning the Bay Area?Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.U.S. Bancorp, based in Minneapolis, has long had a reputation for being one of the best-run large regional banks in the country. But because the banks anti-money laundering controls were inadequate, it failed to spot and investigate a large number of suspicious transactions, federal prosecutors for the Southern District of New York said on Thursday.U.S. Bancorp said it would pay $613 million in penalties to settle the missteps with the Department of Justice and other agencies. The prosecutors highlighted the banks handling of a high-profile customer who, they asserted, should have set off alarm bells:From October 2011 through November 2013, the Bank willfully failed to timely report suspicious banking activities of Scott Tucker, its longtime customer, despite being on notice that Tucker had been using the Bank to launder proceeds from an illegal and fraudulent payday lending scheme using a series of sham bank accounts opened under the name of companies nominally owned by various Native American tribes (the Tribal Companies). From 2008 through 2012, Tuckers companies extended approximately five million loans to customers across the country, while generating more than $2 billion in revenues and hundreds of millions of dollars in profits. Most of this money flowed through accounts that Tucker maintained at the Bank.USB employees responsible for servicing Tuckers ongoing account activity disregarded numerous red flags that Tucker was using the tribes to conceal his ownership of the accounts. For example, Tucker spent large sums of monies from accounts in the names of Tribal Companies on personal items, including tens of millions of dollars on a vacation home in Aspen and on Tuckers professional Ferrari racing team.U.S. Bancorp said on Thursday that it had put in place measure to improve its anti-money laundering controls. The missteps under scrutiny took place between 2009 and 2014.Advertisement— Peter EavisThe founders of Harrys turned their company into a fast-growing competitor to established giants like Gillette in the $2.4 billion shaving industry.AdvertisementNow they want to take on Gillettes parent company, Procter & Gamble.Harrys plans to announce as soon as this week that it has raised $112 million in a new round of financing, money that its leaders said would help the company develop brands beyond mens grooming.Weve built a lot of infrastructure at Harrys that we think we can leverage into new categories, Jeff Raider, one of Harrys founders, said in a telephone interview. Its something that weve been excited about for a long time, and were now at a point in our business where we can act on it.— Michael de la MercedA week ago the major United States indexes fell into a correction, defined as a 10 percent decline from a recent high. The cause? Fears the economy was heating up, which would lead to a pickup in inflation and Federal Reserve raising rates faster than anticipated.But in the week since the S.&P. 500 has stage a comeback. The index is up 7.6 percent and on pace for best week since 2014, according to Bloomberg. In fact, the S.&P. 500 and Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 2 percent the past two days despite the latest inflation data coming in much higher than expected.So what happened to those concerns about inflation? One explanation for why stock investors shrugged off the inflation data was a very weak report on retail sales. Investors seemed to take that as evidence the economy is not overheating and that the Fed will continue to raise rates at a very slow pace.Two weeks ago when the sell-off started, the Atlanta Feds GDPNow forecast for first-quarter G.D.P. fell to 3.25 percent from 5.4 percent two weeks ago.While it does appear that inflation is accelerating, it appears much less likely that the economy is really taking off and forcing the Fed into a more aggressive rate hiking cycle, write the strategists over at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.AdvertisementThe bigger pictureA rising rate environment is not necessarily a bad thing for stocks. Jodie Gunzberg, the head of United States equities at S&P Dow Jones Indices, points out that since 1971 the S&P 500:• has returned about 20% on average in rising rate periods• has gained 8 of 9 times• has gained nearly 40% twice• loss less than a 4% onceAn article from ProPublica on Thursday provides new insight into whats going on under Mick Mulvaney at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the agency set up after the financial crisis to stamp out lending abuses. Since President Trump appointed Mr. Mulvaney as temporary head in November, his critics say he has taken steps to soften the bureaus oversight of banks and other financial firms.ProPublicas article centers on the bureaus handling of investigations into Wells Fargo. It reports that Mr. Mulvaney ordered restrictions on the accessing of personal data of Wells Fargo customers, a move that hampered the bureaus investigations. An exemption on the freeze was later granted to enforcement staff looking into Wells Fargos auto insurance business. But ProPublica added:Mulvaneys order has had effects beyond enforcement, hampering the bureaus efforts to monitor financial firms for compliance with consumer protection rules and conduct research on financial products, according to several staffers. The freeze has even stymied state attorneys general, according to two C.F.P.B. staffers and one attorney for a state office.— Peter EavisHedge funds have been creating scores of shell companies to get around new restrictions on carried interest payouts, which are taxed at 20 percent instead of the higher individual rate.The tax overhaul requires funds to hold onto investments for three years to qualify for the lower rate. Theyve been getting around it by creating single-member LLCs in Delaware to receive carried interest payouts.More from Miles Weiss of Bloomberg:Four LLCs have been created under the name of Elliott Management Corp., the hedge-fund giant run by Paul Singer. More than 70 have been established under the names of executives at Starwood Capital Group Management, the private-equity shop headed by Barry Sternlicht.Steven Mnuchin has promised moves to close the loophole within two weeks.Elsewhere in taxes: President Trump backs a 25 cent increase in gas taxes for infrastructure spending. Cisco will repatriate $67 billion in overseas profits after the tax overhaul.And elsewhere in hedge funds: Yesterday was 13F day: Heres what the big firms invested in.Why is Peter Thiel — the PayPal co-founder, early Facebook backer and notable Trump backer — leaving the Bay Area for Los Angeles, as the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources?The headline reason is his belief that Silicon Valley is too intolerant of conservatives and libertarians. But theres an interesting second reason in the article (emphasis added):Mr. Thiel has grown more disaffected by what he sees as the intolerant, left-leaning politics of the San Francisco Bay Area, and increasingly pessimistic about the prospects for tech businesses amid greater risk of regulation, they said.The WSJ reports that Mr. Thiel will spend at least a bit more time working on a non-tech endeavor: a right-leaning media organization. He will still be involved in Founders Fund, the V.C. firm he co-founded, as well as stay on the boards of Facebook, the data consultancy Palantir and other tech companies.— Michael de la MercedThe New Jersey-based start-up co-founded by Dr. Peter Diamandis, the founder of X-Prize Foundation, and Dr. Bob Hariri, a former Celgene executive, announced that it has raised $250 million.AdvertisementThe company is developing treatments for diseases from cancer to autoimmune disorders using stem cells from the placenta.My goal is to make it so the next generation grows up in a world where cancer is managed just like the common cold, and the bodys natural regenerative engine remains empowered throughout our lives, said Dr. Hariri.Celgene, United Therapeutics, Sorrento Therapeutics, Human Longevity, the Dreyfus Family Office and Section 32 took part in the series-A funding.In other health care deal news• Roche is buying Flatiron Health, an Alphabet-backed cancer-focused start-up founded by two former Google employees, CNBC reports citing according to sources familiar with the matter. The company will pay $1.9 billion, adding to its existing stake, for a total value of $2.1 billion.Asian and European stock indexes are up this morning. So are S. & P. 500 futures, indicating a strong open.And in the bond markets? Ten-year Treasury yields are at a four-year high.Why? The Bureau of Labor Statistics inflation report was higher than expected. But weaker retail sales tempered those fears — at least for equity investors.What economists think: The risk is now that the Federal Reserve pencils in four rate hikes [for this year] when it meets in March, Peter Hooper, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank, told the FT.Peter Eaviss takeTo some, the bond market is a particularly prescient predictor of economic trends. So is it picking up on an inflationary surge that the Federal Reserve likely will take too long to recognize?AdvertisementBut the overheating fears may be overdone. Yesterdays January inflation report was hardly conclusive. Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase, said that the January increase probably overstates the underlying trend.Still, even though there are reasons to believe that while the U.S. economy is breaking out of its recent rut — thanks to big tax cuts and a revival of the global economy — it may not be as vibrant as it looks.The economic flyaround• Reasons for doubt about the Trump administrations economic optimism. (Upshot)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• How Harvard and others bet on markets staying calm. (WSJ)• The stock market should be cheaper, argues Eduardo Porter. (NYT)If Nestlé wont expand its holdings in the cosmetics giant beyond 23 percent, as its C.E.O. said during an earnings report today, that leaves one logical place to go. (Caveat: Selling might make Third Points Dan Loeb happy, but Nestlé doesnt want to rush and lose out on LOréals sales growth.)Nestlé added that its future is likely to contain more deals in the several-hundred-million range of the Blue Bottle Coffee takeover. The sweet spot is in small to mid-sized deals, but we dont want to rule out anything, its C.E.O., Mark Schneider, said.The deals flyaround• The Goldman Sachs bankers who helped Amazon buy Whole Foods Market feared that the Trump administration would squash the deal to spite Jeff Bezos. (BI)• Foxs bid for control of Sky may hinge on Rupert Murdochs character. (Bloomberg)• Thomson Reuters chairman has reservations about his companys $17 billion deal with the Blackstone Group. (WSJ)Advertisement• Was Broadcom wise to offer a big antitrust breakup fee in its Qualcomm bid? (Gadfly)• Tax authorities have requested documents from lenders and investors in real estate projects managed by Jared Kushners family, an unnamed source says. (Bloomberg)• Rebekah Mercer wrote in an op-ed that Steve Bannon had taken Breitbart in the wrong direction, and it could expand its influence without him. (WSJ)• The F.C.C.s inspector general is investigating whether its chairman, Ajit Pal, timed deregulatory moves to benefit Sinclair Broadcasting. (NYT)• Senators agreed on an immigration proposal, one of a sort that President Trump has threatened to veto. (NYT)• After Mr. Trumps personal lawyer declared that he himself had paid $130,000 to the pornographic actress Stormy Daniels, he faces questions about ethics and breach of contract. (NYT)• More than 130 administration officials — including Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner and the White House counsel, Don McGahn — lacked permanent security clearance as recently as November. (NBC)• Fannie Mae is seeking $3.7 billion from the Treasury Department after reporting a $6.5 billion loss for the fourth quarter. (WSJ)• The E.P.A.s chief, Scott Pruitt, said he had traveled in first class and on military jets for security reasons. And read about a loophole in emissions regulations for trucks favored by backers of the Trump administration.Heres what Dara Khosrowshahi said of the companys deep-pocketed new backer yesterday at Goldman Sachss annual tech conference: Rather than having their capital cannon facing me, Id rather have their capital cannon behind me, all right?AdvertisementHe added that SoftBanks Masa Son is a visionary — if a visionary wants to make a bet on you, lets make it happen.He also offered this ambition: I want you to be able to take an Uber and get into the subway — if the trains are running on time, youve got real-time data — get in the subway, get out and have an Uber waiting for you for right now. Or know that theres a bike right there for you that gets you where youre going in the fastest manner.• Amazon will work with Bank of America on small-business lending, unnamed sources say. Its Washington lobbying operation has become formidable. And its planning 2,000 new hires in France.• Mark Zuckerberg has accelerated sales of his Facebook stocks to fund the philanthropic Chan Zuckerberg Initiative. (Recode)• Googles Chrome browser will block some online ads. Critics say the choice of which types to block is self-serving. (WSJ)• Snapchat said it would let creators of Official Stories see analytics about the performance of their work. (Axios)In the latest White Collar Watch column, Peter Henning considers the potential benefits of  a separate regulator for virtual currencies:Whether the S.E.C. or the C.F.T.C. are the best venues for this type of regulation is something Congress will have to decide. Neither agency has experience in overseeing virtual currencies, so assigning responsibility to one (or both) will require increased appropriations to develop rules and effective oversight.Elsewhere in virtual currencies: Charlie Munger thinks Bitcoin is noxious poison.And Bitcoins up 12 percent over the last 24 hours, at $9,972, according to CoinMarketCap.• Elizabeth Warren has written to Wells Fargo about its botched efforts to repay wronged customers. (WSJ)Advertisement• Goldman may be having some success in turning around its fixed-income trading unit, but it might do even better by buying Bank of New York Mellon. (Breakingviews)• Some senior Credit Suisse executives had their secretaries complete compliance training for them. (TheStreet)• Citigroup has won its first local mandate in Saudi Arabia since returning to the kingdom, advising a budget airline owned by Kingdom Holding on its I.P.O. (Bloomberg)• One of Indias largest commercial lenders said it had detected fraudulent transactions worth $1.77 billion at just one of its branches, raising fears of a potential ripple effect across Indian banking. (NYT)• Goldman Sachs named Dusty Philip as a co-head of its global M. & A. team, joining Michael Carr and Gilberto Pozzi. Matt McClure, currently a co-head of Americas M. & A., will replace Mr. Philip as co-head of the global industrials team. (DealBook)• Deirdre Latour is stepping down as G.E.s chief communications officer next month. Linda Boff, the companys chief marketing officer, will be her interim replacement. (G.E.)For any uber-premium creator, the value has gone up 10 times. And Ryan is a once-in-a-lifetime creator.— Dana Walden of Fox, on Ryan Murphys blockbuster five-year, $300 million deal with Netflix• State financial regulators in New York said that they would investigate reports that gay men had been denied insurance because they were taking H.I.V.-prevention medication. (NYT)Advertisement• Private equity firms are doing more of their own capital markets work, bringing new risks as well as new fees. (WSJ)• Bridgewater has made a $22 billion bet against some of Europes biggest companies, according to filings. (Reuters)• Lucio Lanza, a longtime venture capital investor, is being sued by the founder of a medical start-up, who accuses him of sexually assaulting her on a plane. (Business Insider)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Eat By                     
 TEJAL RAO
 
JAN. 25, 2018
Leela Punyaratabandhu grew up in Bangkok, in and out of her great-grandparents home. She didnt live in it, not technically, but its where she and her cousins and uncles and aunts gathered throughout the week to eat, and read, and stay up late watching movies, so it often felt as if she did. As a child, she read books out loud in Thai while walking up and down the length of her grandmothers back, to massage it, and her grandmother piped up occasionally to correct her pronunciation. On weekends, she walked with her grandfather to the newsstand to pick up a copy of The Bangkok Post so that they could each work on their own crossword puzzle. I grew up surrounded by people who had that kind of mentality, that books were important, and that the preservation of tradition was important.The kitchen was equipped with a tiny fridge, so to supplement the daily shopping, Punyaratabandhu carried a basket through the garden, picking out just enough food for the day from a tangle of edible shoots, leaves and tubers. There was neem and basil growing, chiles and mint, six kinds of eggplant, along with trees full of mangoes, bananas, papayas and jackfruit. The kitchen was traditional, which meant that it was outdoors, with a large clay stove built right into the ground. It was lit in the morning, when all the days cooking took place. A heavy wooden bench, about the size of a king bed, was where everyone gathered to prep the ingredients, grating coconut flesh, pounding aromatic pastes in a mortar and pestle and chopping. The kitchen belonged to Punyaratabandhus maternal great-grandmother, who grew up outside the city, in central Thailand. When she married my great-grandfather, she brought a lot of traditions from up country, said Punyaratabandhu, who sometimes found it a little embarrassing when her friends from school came over and saw the clunky, old-fashioned stove.When Punyaratabandhu broke with tradition and moved to Chicago to study philology, her mother shipped over a steady supply of Thai cookbooks, persuading friends and relatives who were making the trip to carry a few with them. Part of her was afraid of losing her daughter, culturally, Punyaratabandu said. So she tried to lure me back to my roots using the thing she knew would be most powerful: food. Over time, Punyaratabandhu became a food blogger, an author and an authority on Thai food, not only cooking but also tracing dishes through different eras, meticulously tracking their changes. What she found, time and time again, was that cooking wasnt static. That it didnt make sense to stubbornly romanticize a single past version. Theres no such thing as authenticity, at least not as most people understand it, she said. Instead, Punyaratabandhu thought of each dish as having a core set of ingredients that defined its identity, and even those sets could shift.Take, for example, the hot, garlicky stir-fry with wilted holy-basil leaves, known as phat ka-phrao. The modern Thai dish is so significant that it made the news when food vendors began packing it with vegetables, which was seen as an effort to spend a bit less on meat and increase profit margins. It was a trending hashtag on Twitter for a long time, and everyone on my Facebook timeline was talking about it, said Punyaratabandhu, who often cooks the stir-fry herself, at home, and never, ever adds vegetables. You form a prototype in your mind, based on your first exposure, and anything that deviates from that is an abomination, she said. Once, after Punyaratabandhu blogged about the stir-fry on her website, SheSimmers, readers living in Thailand wrote to her in confusion. Where was the baby corn? Where were the carrots? And where, for Gods sake, were the long beans? For many people, the set of ingredients that defined the dish had expanded.Last year, she published her version of phat ka-phrao in Bangkok: Recipes and Stories From the Heart of Thailand. She adapted the recipe from Soei, a family-run restaurant in the city that prepares it with sliced beef shanks and makrut lime leaves. To make it, she heats lard in a large pan and fries a paste of birds-eye chiles and garlic, not for long, less than a minute. Before the garlic even has a chance to brown, the meat goes in — fast-cooking tenderloin instead of shanks — and as the meat is shocked by the heat, turning glossy with fat, Punyaratabandhu adds a mix of fish sauce, soy sauce, oyster sauce and a tiny bit of palm sugar, along with those fragrant makrut leaves, ripped into pieces. By the time she adds heaps of holy basil, which wilt almost immediately in the heat, the meat is just about cooked through, and the dish is ready to eat with hot jasmine rice, and the kitchen is filled with a cozy, familiar smell. As Punyaratabandhu points out, a lacy-edged fried egg with a soft yolk would be welcome, but there are no vegetables in sight.Recipe: Spicy Beef Stir-Fry With BasilSign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 2018, on Page MM24 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Bangkok Memories.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 LUIS FERRÉ-SADURNÍ
 
FEB. 21, 2018
Good morning on this springlike Wednesday.Look up, before they disappear for good.New York City is haunted by hundreds of ghost signs: advertisements painted on the sides of buildings decades ago. Many are fading away along with tidbits of the citys history.We recently met up with Benjamin Passikoff, a photographer who published a book on the signs, The Writing on the Wall, and he showed us some of his favorites.Sixth Avenue between 34th and 35th StreetsThe brick-colored sign on the side of the Marbridge Building at 1328 Broadway is easy to miss, overshadowed by the colorful facade of Desigual, a trendy Spanish clothing company.It was an ad for Weber & Heilbroner, once one of the largest mens clothing retailers. Its store moved into the Marbridge Building in the early 1920s, Mr. Passikoff said.AdvertisementThese mens stores were very popular throughout the 20th century, but they could not compete with larger department stores like Macys, Lord & Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman, he said. Many were bought out for assets, or absorbed by larger stores.Madison Avenue and 33rd StreetNew York City was once a leader in designing and producing fashionable handbags for women. The nine signs on the side of 30 East 33rd Street, painted in the 1950s, showcase now-defunct brands like Coblentz and Alan Miller.AdvertisementA bright yellow sign advertises Magid, a handbag company that has survived — its offices are on Fifth Avenue a few blocks from the sign.Every time I see it, it gives me a little bit of excitement, said Pinny Rand, whose family bought the rights to the Magid name in the 1990s.Lexington Avenue and 32nd StreetA royal blue sign on the back of 192 Lexington Avenue advertises Manning, Bowman & Co., a Connecticut company famous for its metalware: kettles, pots, service kits, fans, toasters, bar goods and the like.Their products represent a beautiful Art Deco style and are in many museum collections today, Mr. Passikoff said.Heres what else is happening:Mercury Rises to 68, Record for Feb. 21; Holiday Seekers Jam Trains to Resorts.That was the headline in 1930. There was a rush on plane tickets to Boston, too. Fifty-five applicants could get no seats because of lack of accommodations, The Times reported.Today that record should fall: 71 degrees is the forecast high, under partly sunny skies.We also confidently predict that there will be some jammed trains this morning.AdvertisementTomorrow should be a little more normal, rainy with highs in the mid-40s.• The new head of New York City Transit vowed to provide the public with more detailed information as to why trains are delayed. [New York Times]• Authorities have refused to release a 17-year-old native of El Salvador who is accused of being a member of the MS-13 street gang, despite a judge saying he is not a safety risk. [New York Times]• After almost 110 years, Yales famed Whiffenpoofs, an a cappella singing group, have added a female tenor to their ranks. [New York Times]• Prosecutors latest examples in the Albany corruption case of Joseph Percoco involve his wifes job, including science fairs, library trips and a teachers performance review. [New York Times]• After a judge ruled in favor of the graffiti artists who created the murals on the 5Pointz building complex, questions about the future of graffiti are being raised. [New York Times]• After nearly 15 years of court appearances and legal hearings, Brooklyn prosecutors are planning on retrying the murder case of John Giuca if their recently overturned conviction is unsuccessful. [New York Times]• East Brunswick, N.J., will be placing armed police officers in its schools, as districts reevaluate their security measures in the wake of the recent Florida shooting. [New York Times]• In a small town about 50 miles north of New York City, firefighters staged a fundraising raffle with a prize of an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle, springing the towns discussions into the national gun debate. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Jeffrey Bell, the conservative theorist and advocate for tax-cutting from New Jersey, died at 74. [New York Times]Advertisement• Kick Axe, a sports bar in Gowanus, has become a popular spot where patrons can hurl axes at wooden targets. [New York Times]• For the first time in New Jerseys history, women will be a majority in the governors cabinet. [PIX 11]• A new lawsuit alleges that Tavern on the Green, the well-known Central Park restaurant, has shorted its employees on their tips and paychecks. [New York Daily News]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Dogs of the Upper West Side• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Celebrate Chinese New Year with ballroom and belly dancing at the Lost Battalion Hall Recreation Center in Rego Park, Queens. 9:30 a.m. [Free]• Learn the basics of American Sign Language at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 10:45 a.m. [Free]• Watch short films by female directors at The New York Public Library Stephen A. Schwarzman Building in Midtown. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until March 1.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.AdvertisementOn this date in 1965, Malcolm X, the contentious civil rights leader, was shot to death during a rally at the Audubon Ballroom in Washington Heights.Malcolm, a bearded extremist, had said only a few words of greeting when a fusillade rang out. The bullets knocked him over backward, The Times reported at the time. He was 39.Although Malcolm was born in Nebraska, he spent much of his life in New York City, where he ascended to the local Harlem spotlight and became a national media figure.In the early 1950s, he founded and preached at the Mosque 7, now a Sunni Muslim mosque in Harlem called Masjid Malcolm Shabazz.Malcolm and his family lived in a house at 23-11 97th Street in East Elmhurst in Queens. The house was firebombed a week before his murder.He was assassinated by three members of the Nation of Islam, a religious movement with which he had cut ties a few months earlier.Im a marked man, Malcolm told a Times reporter a week before his death. No one can get out without trouble, and this thing with me will be resolved by death and violence. New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By AMANDA FORTINIFEB. 21, 2018
FEEL FREEEssaysBy Zadie Smith452 pp. Penguin Press. $28.As a teenager, Zadie Smith discovered Hanif Kureishis novel The Buddha of Suburbia and felt her world crack open. Kureishi, who is British-Pakistani, made his narrator and protagonist, Karim, mixed race as well. Smith, the child of a black Jamaica-born mother and a white British father, wasnt used to seeing biracial characters in fiction. Practically the only star I had to steer by was that old, worn-out, paper-thin character the tragic mulatto, she writes in her latest collection of essays, Feel Free, whom I found in bad novels and worse movies. But Karim wasnt tragic, nor was he an idealized, anodyne role model. He was, in Smiths words, pushy, wild, charismatic, street-smart, impudent, often hilarious.Kureishi isnt interested in pieties, and neither, refreshingly, is Smith, as anyone who has read her essays in Harpers, The New Yorker and The New York Review of Books knows. Smith argues that it is Kureishis willingness to be impious, perverse and rude that gives the novel its singular power: All the great energy of Buddha comes from watching the liberty of creative freedom being taken, over and over again — as if it were a right. Which, of course, it is. But thats not always obvious to young artists, particularly those who dont see themselves represented in the status quo. Reading the novel, Smith felt something impossible loosen within me, she writes in The I Who Is Not Me, the inaugural Philip Roth Lecture, which she delivered at the Newark Public Library in 2016. It was a gift of freedom.A few years after this formative moment, in 2000, she published White Teeth, her celebrated debut novel. Smith has written four novels since then, and in the past decade, she has also produced a significant body of smart, incisive nonfiction, much of it occasioned by encounters with books and film and visual art, from Kureishis novel to Balthasar Denners 18th-century painting Alte Frau to Jordan Peeles film Get Out. Although her essays range over many topics — Brexit, Facebook, climate change, cultural appropriation, pleasure versus joy — she is interested in the making and meaning of cultural artifacts, and in the exchange of feeling that takes place between art and its audience, between text and reader: what she calls the essential, living communication between art work and viewer.As the title of her new collection suggests, here Smith explores variations on a theme: freedom of language and thought; freedom from received narratives that tend to be foolishly consistent, if not downright constricting; freedom from the impossible identities society so facilely places on people, or from those we too readily adopt ourselves. Most of all, though, shes concerned with artistic and aesthetic freedom, with the boldness and daring that compel an artist to create even when conditions seem hostile. In 1969, she notes, it was a radical act for a Jewish author to write a foul-mouthed, sex-obsessed, masturbating character like Alexander Portnoy. But in taking this freedom for himself, Smith writes, Roth, intentionally or not, passed that freedom down to readers and writers like Smith, who came after him.AdvertisementFreedom is a conceit well suited to a collection of essays. Aldous Huxley called the essay a literary device for saying almost everything about almost anything — and this is Smiths approach. She writes about her lower-middle-class upbringing by way of the second bathroom in her childhood home: The spare room, the extra toilet — these represented, for my parents, a very British form of achievement. She mourns her father while celebrating the exhilarating democracy of Italian public parks, and she explores Justin Bieber as love-object through the philosophy of Martin Buber. The essay forms freewheeling nature arguably accounts for its current popularity. Readers, hip to the conventions of storytelling — we fill our commutes with podcasts and fetishize long-form narratives — are drawn to the essay, which lends itself to the unexpected and original. Behind the best contemporary essays you can sense the writers beating heart.Smiths style is casual, discursive, but not collagelike in the current fashion, intimate without being overly personal. Taking her children to The Polar Express 4-D Experience on the same day she sees Charlie Kaufmans puppet film, Anomalisa — while carrying a pocket book of Schopenhauer around — yields Windows on the Will: Anomalisa, an essay that examines Kaufmans film through its Schopenhauerian fixation on human suffering (the easier to dramatize with puppets): the inevitability of it, and the possibility of momentary, illusory relief from it. Similarly, in Man Versus Corpse, the discovery of a forlorn little hardbacked book about Italian masterpieces on a table in her lobby leads to a close reading of Luca Signorellis painting Nude Man From the Back Carrying a Corpse on His Shoulders, which in turn opens up into a rambling discussion of existence, inequality (the unequal distribution of corpses), Rothko, Warhol (an enthusiastic proponent of corpse art), iPhones and her own inability to imagine herself as a corpse, before ending at a dinner party with talk of Knausgaard and his multivolume cathedral of boredom.AdvertisementIt is exquisitely pleasurable to observe Smith thinking on the page, not least because we have no idea where shes headed. Notes on Attunement, her well-known essay on Joni Mitchell, recounts the sudden epiphany that took her from Joni Mitchell-hating pilgrim to a fan who weeps with joy at her music, touching on Wordsworth, connoisseurship, Seneca, Kierkegaard and the inconsistency of the self along the way. At times she reminds me of a musician jamming, or one of those enviable cooks who can take five random ingredients lying around the kitchen and whip up a meal. Her loose, roving essays cohere because they are rooted in her sensibility, in what Elizabeth Hardwick called the soloists personal signature flowing through the text.How to characterize Smiths sensibility? Above all, shes allergic to dishonesty, hypocrisy, sanctimony, cant. For many people in London right now, she writes in Fences: A Brexit Diary, the supposedly multicultural and cross-class aspects of their lives are actually represented by their staff — nannies, cleaners — by the people who pour their coffees and drive their cabs, or else the handful of Nigerian princes you meet in private schools. She takes a wide-lens, Olympian view, often empathizing with both sides of an issue — her arguments can thus be difficult to pinpoint — but she is ultimately pragmatic. One useful consequence of Brexit, she writes, is to finally and openly reveal a deep fracture in British society that has been 30 years in the making.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At root she believes that art is a realm where knotty issues can be safely explored, and that we should not draw neat boundaries around its subjects. Such is the argument of her much-discussed essay on Get Out, which first appeared in Harpers: Its a fantasy that we can get out of each others way, mark a clean cut between black and white, she concludes in that essay, which also examines the controversy over the white artist Dana Schutzs painting of Emmett Till. In an open letter, the artist Hannah Black had asked the Whitney Biennial to remove and destroy the painting, on the grounds that Schutz had no right to depict black suffering; the request, Smith writes, was the province of Nazis and censorious evangelicals. The problem with such racial essentialism, she suggests elsewhere in this collection, is that it can run both ways. See the narrow, patronizing tendency to ascribe to black artists some generalized aim, like inserting the black figure into the white canon. This trivializes the formal and technical concerns of the artist, Smith writes, the unique problem each art work poses.Smith is an appreciator of art, a connoisseur, rather than a stern critic. Its rare that she writes about anything she dislikes. Indeed, if the book has a subtheme, it is joy, a feeling not often discussed outside of New Age circles. Its an emotion brought about by giving birth, falling in love, taking drugs — those almost unbearably exquisite experiences that the final essay, Joy, recounts — but also by art: Joni Mitchells music, Fred Astaires dancing, the defiantly campy street strut of the man in Marc Bradfords video Niagara.Of course, as Smith notes in her foreword, the idea of freedom has taken on new resonance in the past year, and I have often heard it asked whether art that is not expressly political is still necessary or worthwhile. But as Smith writes: You cant fight for a freedom youve forgotten how to identify. Art — making it, contemplating it — reminds us what its like to feel free.Amanda Fortini is a writer and visiting lecturer at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.A version of this review appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page BR10 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Joy Ride.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 12, 2018
Good Monday. Heres what were watching:• A closer look at potential privatization targets under the White Houses infrastructure plan.• What investors should be watching to discern where the markets are headed.• Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason urge shareholders not to let Fuji steal Xerox.• General Dynamicss big deal shows that military spending is set to go up.• Where Dina Powell is going next.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.Stocks on Wall Street endured their worst week in two years last week.Monday they capped their biggest two-day advance since 2016.The S&P 500 rose 1.4 percent Monday and has added nearly 3 percent since Thursdays close. Ten of the indexs 11 sectors were higher on the day.AdvertisementThe Dow Jones industrial average jumped nearly 400 points, or 1.7 percent. General Electric was the only member of the 30-stock index to finish lower on the day.AdvertisementThe Nasdaq Composite rose 1.8 percent and turned positive for the year.Correction factoids• How many corrections have there been since 1980? 36, Ryan Detrick of LPL Financial writes. That comes to a little less than one a year.• What made this correction unique? It was the first time the S.&.P. 500 crossed into a correction nine days after hitting an all-time high, Mr. Detrick wrote.• The S.&P. 500 has moved at least 1 percent in eight sessions, matching last years number of 1 percent moves.• One trader made nearly $200 million on a bet that volatility would surge, according to Pravit Chintawongvanich, the head of derivatives strategy at Macro Risk Advisors, via Bloomberg.• Bloomberg also reports that E*Trade added 64,581 gross new brokerage accounts in January, the most in a month since September 2016.Ray Dalio thinks so.In a LinkedIn post, the billionaire hedge fund manager said: We dont know exactly how far we are from the top in the stock market and then the economy, though it is clear that we are past the top in the bond market.Yet Jeff Rosenberg, the chief fixed-income strategist at BlackRock, said that it is a fools errand to call the end of the bond bull market. Mr. Rosenberg told CNBC that while he expects higher bond yields to persist for a period, he is not ready to call the end of the bond bull market.If the White House had its way, heres some of the government-run assets that could be sold to private financiers as part of the $1.5 trillion infrastructure investment program:• Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport• Dulles International Airport• The George Washington and Baltimore Washington parkwaysAdvertisement• The Washington AqueductHeres what the plan says:The vast majority of the Nations electricity needs are met through for-profit investor-owned utilities. Federal ownership of these assets can result in sub-optimal investment decisions and create risk for taxpayers.Some context: Only one U.S. airport — Puerto Ricos — has successfully been privatized. (Chicagos bid to privatize Midway failed four years ago.) Thus far, St. Louis is the only mainland U.S. city that is exploring privatizing its airport, but the effort has drawn criticism.An interesting point about infrastructure investing raised by Dan Primack of Axios:
            Long-term issue: Private equity is flush w/ cash as investors search for yield. As rates rise, however, harder for funds w/ lower return prospects -- such as infrastructure -- to raise. But WH infra plan relies on lots more of these funds being raised.        The average level of return that infrastructure investment funds have sought was about 10.6 percent in 2016, down from 14 percent in 2004, according to a report by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the Global Infrastructure Investor Association. Infrastructure in general is regarded as a lower-return asset class with fairly consistent cash flows.While the Blackstone Group is raising $40 billion for its own infrastructure fund (half of which is coming from Saudi Arabia), its hard to see private investors filling in the $1.3 trillion required to fulfill the Trump administrations vision.To break it down numerically:• PwC and the G.I.A.A. note that roughly $200 billion had been raised by infrastructure investors since 2006.• Roughly $1.7 trillion was invested worldwide between January 2010 and September 2016.— Michael de la MercedThe recent, complacency-shaking declines in stock prices will have forced investors to take more seriously the yardsticks used to assess whether stocks are worth buying. None of the metrics on their own reliably can predict the direction of stocks, but when markets are freaking out and much is a blur, well-chosen indicators can steady the nerves and clarify the mind.The most important indicator right nowIts the 10-year Treasury notes yield, which moves in the opposite direction to its price. A higher yield reflects greater inflation fears among investors — and a higher likelihood of that interest rates are going up.AdvertisementStock investors fear higher interest rates for two main reasons:• Most immediately, they make stock valuations look less attractive• In the longer term, they can eventually slow economic growth.The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has retreated to 2.83 percent Monday, while United States stocks are trading higher. The Dow Jones industrial average, the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq Composite are all up more than 0.5 percent.Adding to the funThe government inflation figures come out on Wednesday.The valuation questionThe recent volatility in the stock market has stirred up the valuation debate. Put more directly, did the declines take stock prices down to level where they no longer look expensive?There are many ways to tackle that question. But for no particular reason, lets look at the Rule of 20 today. This yardstick subtracts the inflation rate from the number 20 and compares that answer with the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.&P. 500. Stocks are theoretically overvalued if the price-to-earnings ratio is higher.Right now, the S.&P. 500 price-to-earnings ratio is 21.1 times, 3.2 above the 17.9 that you get from subtracting the inflation rate from 20. That suggests stocks could have further to fall.Still, history shows why that might not be the case. In 1997, the rule of 20 gave roughly the same answer as we have now, but stocks kept zooming higher. (Of course, that bull run did not end well. By 2001, the stock market was down below 1997 levels.)If you find the debate over valuation unsatisfactory ...There are also technical indicators, which look at how traders react to a wide selection of market measurements. One of the most interesting right now is the 200-day moving average on the S.&P. 500.John Kimelman at Barrons gave a good run down on why it matters:But at one point Friday, it looked like that was where things were heading. Shortly before 1 p.m., the Standard & Poors 500 briefly broke below its 200-day moving average, or 2539, before recovering and closing the week above 2619, up 1.5% on the day.The 200-day moving average—the continually updated average price of the past 200 days—is considered a strong measure of investor sentiment. If the S&P 500 had continued to fall below the average, it would have conveyed real bearishness. The S&P 500 hasnt closed below that moving average in 408 trading sessions, going back to around the U.S. presidential election in November 2016, according to LPL Financial.— Peter EavisCarl Icahn and Darwin Deason, two of Xeroxs biggest investors, sent a letter to shareholders criticizing the printer and copier makers deal with Fujifilm Holdings of Japan.AdvertisementFrom the letter:It really is a remarkable achievement by Fuji. Without putting up any cash, they will acquire majority control and ownership of a venerable American icon. In exchange, we – the existing Xerox shareholders – will receive (1) an additional, indirect 25% interest in a Fuji subsidiary that just last year disclosed a $360 million accounting scandal caused by a culture of concealment and Fujis failure to have adequate management systems and (2) a one-time special dividend financed with our own assets.The backstoryXerox said on Jan. 31 that it would combine operations with Fujifilm Holdings in a $6.1 billion deal.The complicated transaction will fold Xerox into an existing 55-year-old joint venture. Xerox shareholders will receive a special cash dividend of $9.80 a share and will own 49.9 percent of the combined business, which will be publicly traded. The move is expected to save at least $1.7 billion in costs, though Fujifilm will cut 10,000 jobs.At the end of last year, Mr. Icahn launched a campaign to unseat the Xeroxs board, and late last month, he and Mr. Deason pressured the company to explore a deal — including revising or ending the Fujifilm joint venture.Xeroxs statement, via Reuters:Xerox said it considered several other options in detail and concluded that the combination with Fuji Xerox is the best path to create value for the company.— Stephen GrocerBroadcoms chief executive, Hock Tan, appeared on CNBC to discuss his companys $121 billion bid for Qualcomm. The appearance comes just days before the two companies are scheduled to meet to discuss the deal and less than a month before Qualcomms annual shareholder meeting on March 6. Broadcom proposed a slate of 11 directors to replace the entire board of Qualcomm in December.Here are some of Mr. Tans comments:On concerns the deal wont win regulatory approval and Broadcoms offer of an $8 billion breakup fee if it doesnt:You know, Im kind of a frugal guy. You think I would sign up to pay $8 billion if theres even a second thought?On if Qualcomms shareholders dont vote for a majority of Broadcoms slate on March 6:This is a binary proposal. If at least a majority of our slate does not get in on March 6, then I guess we will get the message that this deal is not going to happen. We will walk.On Qualcomms $110 a share offer for NXP Semiconductors, which has gotten pushback from NXP investors:NXPI will not solve Qualcomms problems.On the possibility that Qualcomm increases its bid for NXP Semiconductors:If Qualcomm raises the price on NXPI, we have made it very clear, its a clear transfer of value from Qualcomm shareholders to NXPI shareholders.$110 is a full and fair price for NXPI.Meredith has closed its deal to buy Time Inc. Now the media industry is buzzing about which publications Meredith— a predominantly women-focused, non-newsy publisher — is likely to sell.Heres what the media banker Reed Phillips told Joe Pompeo of Vanity Fair:Time, Fortune, Sports Illustrated, and Entertainment Weekly are the hot properties, he said, noting that suitors are most likely to be rich trophy buyers, former media executives, and possibly other publishers. Private equity, not so much, except maybe for some firms that would do distress deals, Phillips said. Strategic buyers or wealthy individuals are gonna win out.Who could be a buyer? Some of the names that Mr. Pompeo identified:• Jimmy Finkelstein, who owns The Hill• David Pecker, who owns the National Enquirer• Wang Jianlin of Dalian Wanda— Michael de la MercedThe answer is yes, according to new figures from the market research firm eMarketer.AdvertisementThe numbers• For the first time, less than half of United States internet users ages 12 to 17 will use Facebook via any device at least once per month.• The number of users ages 12 to 17 and 18 to 24 will decrease by 5.6 percent and 5.8 percent.• In 2018, the number of United States Facebook users ages 11 and younger will decline by 9.3 percent.• Facebook will lose 2 million users ages 24 and younger this year, eMarketer estimates. Not all of those users are migrating to Instagram.• Snapchat, meanwhile, will add 1.9 million users in that age group.• Snapchat will continue to have more users ages 12 to 24 compared with that of Instagram.— Stephen GrocerWhats happening: The company agreed to buy CSRA, a provider of information technology to the federal government, for $6.8 billion.General Dynamics will pay $40.75 a share in cash, up 32 percent from CSRAs Friday closing price.Phebe Novakovic, General Dynamics chairman and C.E.O., said of the deal:CSRAs management team has created an outstanding provider of innovative, next-generation IT solutions with industry-leading margins. We see substantial opportunities to provide cost-effective IT solutions and services to the Department of Defense, the intelligence community and federal civilian agencies.The contextThe deal came as President Trump has pushed for higher defense spending since taking office. Last weeks budget deal added billions for military programs.AdvertisementRemember Mr. Trumps tweet on Friday:
            Just signed Bill. Our Military will now be stronger than ever before. We love and need our Military and gave them everything — and more. First time this has happened in a long time. Also means JOBS, JOBS, JOBS!        The advisers• For General Dynamics: Stone Key Group and the law firm Jenner & Block• For CSRA: Evercore, Macquarie Capital and the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison— Chad BrayAfter leaving the White House as deputy national security adviser for strategy, Ms. Powell is going to academia. She will become a non-resident senior fellow for the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Harvard Kennedy School.Nicholas Burns, the faculty director of the Belfer Centers Future of Diplomacy Project, said in a statement:Dina Powell is one of our countrys finest public servants. ... Combined with her deep private sector background, Dina will be a source of ideas and inspiration for our students.Many had been wondering where Ms. Powell would go after her tenure in the Trump administration. Before joining the White House, she had been a fast-rising executive at Goldman Sachs, where she oversaw the firms impact investment business.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Before that, she had been an official in the George W. Bush administration.— Michael de la MercedWas Friday too volatile for you? Lets see how today goes. S. & P. 500 futures were up this morning, suggesting a rise today. But some savvy market players warn that more pain may be in store.The head of Goldman Sachss equities trading sent a pessimistic note to clients on Friday, according to Robin Wigglesworth of the FT. The message: We havent hit a market bottom yet, and the era of buy the dip is over.
            Here is the email Goldman Sachs' head of equity trading sent to the bank's biggest clients on Friday, arguing the era of BTFD is dead. (1/3) pic.twitter.com/IxhkQ0sOXi And Bob Prince, a co-chief investment officer at Bridgewater Associates, told the FT, There had been a lot of complacency built up in markets over a long time, so we dont think this shakeout will be over in a matter of days.From Andrew: Something to think about. How much of the economys recent success has been a function of the wealth effect in the stock market? If even some of it is, how would more volatility affect consumer spending — and cycle back through the markets?The markets flyaround• Peter Eavis breaks down potential debt problems. (NYT)• Did insurers trigger the market volatility? (FT)Advertisement• The clash between bonds and stocks is heating up. (Bloomberg)One of the biggest advertisers around says it will stop buying ads on their platforms if they dont do more to combat hate speech, fake news and other divisive content.For context: Unilever spent more than $9 billion on marketing last year, for products from Dove soap to Lipton iced tea.What Keith Weed, its chief marketing officer, plans to say at the Interactive Advertising Bureau conference today:We cannot continue to prop up a digital supply chain — one that delivers over a quarter of our advertising to our consumers — which at times is little better than a swamp in terms of its transparency.Remember: Unilever was already outspoken about the need to clean up the digital ad industry. And shareholders like BlackRock have called upon public companies to do more social good, or risk a backlash.Thats what Axios reckons, since neither White House proposal is likely to go anywhere.On infrastructureDont look for more specifics from the Trump administration, including on how its initiative will be funded. Republican lawmakers are wary of more spending: The government funding bill that Mr. Trump signed last week will push the budget deficit toward $1 trillion.Representative Daniel Lipinski, Democrat of Illinois, told the WaPo of the plan, I think its just dead on arrival. And the National Resource Defense Council attacked it as an unacceptable corporate giveaway.Politico points out that the proposal would shift many project decisions to state governments.On the budget proposalLast weeks bill made it irrelevant. Still, Mick Mulvaney of the Office of Management and Budget warned yesterday that the growing budget deficit could lead to a spike in interest rates. (His caveat: sustained economic growth could make up for that.)AdvertisementMeanwhile, the White House wants $23 billion for more immigration enforcement, including for Mr. Trumps border wall.• The fallout from the resignation of Rob Porter, the former White House staff secretary, continues. The White House doesnt have its story straight, and is having to deny reports that the fate of John Kelly is in question.• Companies that inverted — moved their financial headquarters to cut their U.S. tax bill by buying a foreign company — face higher rates under the recent overhaul. (WSJ)• Conservative lawmakers delivered the fiscal stimulus that liberal economists wanted. (NYT)• Companies have won plaudits for paying onetime bonuses. But they arent raising workers salaries. (NYT)• Scott Gottlieb, the head of the F.D.A., is being praised for trying to balance protecting consumers health with rewarding the drug industry. (NYT)• The businessman Andrew Yang is planning a long-shot bid for the White House on an anti-robot-apocalypse platform. (NYT)• The White House wants NASA to send astronauts back to the moon — using the private sector, after Mr. Trump leaves office. (NYT)The states attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, sued the movie studio and its founders, alleging violations of sexual discrimination and harassment laws. The net effect: The $500 million bid by Maria Contreras-Sweet, Ron Burkles Yucaipa Companies and Lantern Asset Management may be dead.AdvertisementMore on the lawsuit by Brooks Barnes and Willie Neuman of the NYT:Eric Soufer, director of communications and senior counsel to Mr. Schneiderman, said the attorney generals office considered asking a judge for a temporary restraining order that could block the sale but opted not to and filed the civil rights lawsuit instead. He added that the office reviewed the proposed terms of the sale and that they did not include a victims compensation fund.Harvey Weinstein said of the lawsuit in a statement that if it was designed to scapegoat him, he will vigorously defend himself.The misconduct flyaround• Mr. Trump appeared to dismiss the #MeToo campaign, making Republicans uneasy. (NYT)• Wynn Resorts risks long-term effects from the allegations against Steve Wynn. (NYT)• The story of Mary Cunningham Agee, who was at the center of an early corporate sex scandal and is now feuding with her stepchildren over a will. (NYT)The citys fate is closely tied to Qualcomm, which has 13,000 local employees and generates almost 4 percent of the regions economic output. So the prospect of a sale is jarring there, especially as Broadcom (nee Avago) is known for cutting cost at the companies it takes over.More from Conor Dougherty of the NYT:As a businessperson in San Diego, if youre not following this youre living in a cave, said Jason Hughes, chief executive of Hughes Marino, a commercial real estate brokerage.And Mr. Hughes added, Its almost like theyre our flag.Other news on the potential deal: K.K.R. and C.V.C. have joined the $100 billion financing package for the bid. And Broadcom and Qualcomm plan to meet on Valentines Day.The deals flyaround• Whether Comcast revives its bid for 21st Century Fox will depend in part what Fox says in its proxy statement, according to unnamed sources. (WSJ)• Could Blackstone buy back the Waldorf Astoria from Anbang? (Bloomberg)• Apollo has teamed up with a big Dutch pension fund to bid for Akzo Nobels specialty chemicals unit, unnamed sources say. (FT)• Meet the 220 demand, the latest tool for shareholders to wring a higher price from the sale of a Delaware-based company. (FT)Advertisement• Patrick Soon-Shiongs purchase of the L.A. Times has put the spotlight on his health company, NantHealth, which has been dogged by financial woes and other turmoil. (WSJ)• When Amazon paid $90 million for Blink, which makes home security cameras, its real prize was more energy-efficient chips for Echos and other devices, unnamed sources say. (Reuters)• Axel Springer of Germany has taken an undisclosed stake in Magic Leap, an augmented reality start-up. (TechCrunch)Fridays surprise settlement between Uber and Alphabet removes yet another potential headache for the ride-hailing giant as it prepares to go public next year.Chalk it up to the peacemaking Mr. Khosrowshahi, who in his statement said:My job as Ubers C.E.O. is to set the course for the future of the company: innovating and growing responsibly, as well as acknowledging and correcting mistakes of the past.Uber ended a legal fight with a $245 million stock payout to Alphabet, less than it originally offered as a settlement. And its latest valuation is $72 billion. And Alphabet got pledges that its competitor would not wrongfully use its autonomous driving tech.The other big question: Can Alphabets Waymo find a profitable business plan as self-driving rivals catch up technologically?The tech flyaround• Read the NYTs special section on how the internet is changing. (NYT)• Snap is offering credits to lure advertisers from Instagram. (Recode)• How China is winning control of the worlds battery supply chain. (WSJ)Why? Because a) theyre expected to use more energy in the country this year than homes are, and b) the global financial crisis has left citizens and lawmakers there critical of speculative financial ventures.AdvertisementMeanwhile, the rural town of Wenatchee, Wash. has become a haven for Bitcoin miners, thanks to its hydroelectric dams. But utilities are still figuring out how to handle their power needs without wild price swings.Where Bitcoin is trading today: About $8,800, according to CoinMarketCap, up 8.5 percent over the last 24 hours.• Harvard has named Lawrence Bacow as its next president, a diplomatic figure at a time when higher education is under fire. (NYT)• Amazon hired NBCs Jennifer Salke as its new studio head, replacing Roy Price, who was ousted amid allegations of sexual harassment. (NYT)• Lars Dalgaard is quitting Andreessen Horowitz to start his own venture fund. Hes only the second general partner ever to leave. (Recode)• UBS has hired Gabriel Aractingi, formerly of Investcorp and Morgan Stanley, to run its ultrahigh net worth business in Saudi Arabia, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• Most British politicians have treated the countrys withdrawal from the European Union as inviolable, but there are signs that support for a second referendum is growing. (NYT)• The operating unit Barclays Plc has been accused of unlawful financial assistance in relation to a $3 billion loan it secured from Qatar a decade ago. The British charge could affect its ability to do business globally. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• Wells Fargo is fumbling its efforts to repay customers it has wronged, notifying some of incorrect refund amounts and sometimes sending refunds to people who werent customers. (WSJ)• The Saudi authorities expect to raise $13.3 billion by the end of the year as they complete settlements with princes and tycoons rounded up as part of a corruption crackdown, according to a senior official. (FT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARK MAZZETTI and MAGGIE HABERMANFEB. 23, 2018
WASHINGTON — A former top adviser to Donald J. Trumps presidential campaign has agreed to cooperate with the special counsel inquiry into Russias interference in the 2016 election after pleading guilty on Friday to financial fraud and lying to investigators.The adviser, Rick Gates, is a longtime political consultant who once served as Mr. Trumps deputy campaign chairman. The plea deal could be a significant development in the investigation — a sign that Mr. Gates plans to offer incriminating information against his longtime associate and the former Trump campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, and possibly other members of the campaign in exchange for a lighter punishment. He faces up to nearly six years in prison.The deal came as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has been raising pressure on Mr. Gates and Mr. Manafort with dozens of new charges of money laundering and bank fraud unsealed on Thursday. Both men were first indicted in October and pleaded not guilty. The plea agreement was part of a flurry of recent activity by the special counsels team. Last week, 13 Russians were indicted on charges relating to a carefully planned scheme to incite political discord in the United States in the months before the 2016 election.Mr. Gates changed his plea on Friday during an appearance in a Washington courtroom, his eyes cast down as the government outlined the charges against him. A man who had made millions of dollars lobbying in Ukraine accepted the fate that may await him: a prison sentence for carrying out a financial conspiracy to hide the money he earned there.AdvertisementHe also admitted that he lied to investigators this month — while under indictment and negotiating with prosecutors — about the details of a 2013 meeting about Ukraine that Mr. Manafort had with a pro-Russian member of Congress.AdvertisementWhat the dramatic courtroom scene might mean for President Trump depends on what Mr. Gates has to offer the special counsel, though at the least, the plea agreement is further evidence that the Trump campaign attracted a cast of advisers who overstepped legal and ethical boundaries. The indictments so far have not indicated that either Mr. Gates or Mr. Manafort had information about the central question of Mr. Muellers investigation — whether Mr. Trump or his aides coordinated with the Russian governments efforts to disrupt the 2016 election.But Mr. Gates was present for the most significant periods of the campaign, as Mr. Trump began forging policy positions and his digital campaign operation engaged with millions of voters on social media platforms such as Facebook. Even after Mr. Manafort was fired by Mr. Trump in August 2016, Mr. Gates remained with the campaign at the request of Stephen K. Bannon, who took over as head of the campaign.From there, Mr. Gates assumed a different role — as a liaison between the campaign and the Republican National Committee — and traveled aboard the Trump plane through the end of August.In addition to offering visibility into the Trump campaign, Mr. Gates might be able to provide prosecutors with glimpses into decision-making in the months after Mr. Trumps election victory. Mr. Gates was a senior aide on the presidential inaugural committee, and in the months after the inauguration, he worked with America First Policies, the main outside group supporting the Trump presidency.Besides the agreement with Mr. Gates, the special counsels team has already secured guilty pleas from two of Mr. Trumps advisers. Michael T. Flynn, the presidents first national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy aide during the campaign, have both pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and agreed to cooperate with the inquiry.Mr. Gatess plea deal came together over the past few days, according to people familiar with the process. In a letter to friends and family, Mr. Gates said there had been false news stories about an impending plea deal over the past two weeks.But, he added, Despite my initial desire to vigorously defend myself, I have had a change of heart. The reality of how long this legal process will likely take, the cost, and the circuslike atmosphere of an anticipated trial are too much. I will better serve my family moving forward by exiting this process.Advertisement[Read our 2017 profile of Rick Gates »]Testimony from Mr. Gates could give Mr. Muellers team a first-person account of the criminal conduct that is claimed in the indictments — a potential blow to Mr. Manaforts defense strategy. On Friday, Mr. Manafort pledged to continue the fight.Get the latest on the special counsel investigation — and other major news — delivered to your email inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Notwithstanding that Rick Gates pleaded today, I continue to maintain my innocence, he said in a statement. I had hoped and expected my business colleague would have had the strength to continue the battle to prove our innocence. For reasons yet to surface he chose to do otherwise. This does not alter my commitment to defend myself against the untrue piled up charges contained in the indictments against me.After Mr. Gatess plea hearing, prosecutors filed a new indictment against Mr. Manafort. That indictment did not allege new charges against him, but was done for procedural purposes as prosecutors pursue separate cases in Washington and Northern Virginia.The court papers give few specifics about how Mr. Gates came to be charged with lying to the F.B.I. On Feb. 1, as he was negotiating with prosecutors about a possible deal, Mr. Gates misled investigators about a conversation he had with Mr. Manafort in March 2013, after Mr. Manafort had met with the congressman to discuss the situation in Ukraine. The documents do not name the lawmaker, but news accounts have identified him as Representative Dana Rohrabacher of California, a Republican long known for his pro-Russia views.Mr. Gates falsely told investigators that Mr. Manafort had told him that the subject of Ukraine had not come up at the meeting, even though Mr. Gates had helped draft a report to Ukraines leadership after the meeting about what had transpired, according to the court papers.Court records detail a byzantine scheme he and Mr. Manafort employed from about 2006 to 2015 in which they funneled millions of dollars they earned from their work as political consultants in Ukraine into shell companies and foreign bank accounts. The men worked in various capacities with Viktor F. Yanukovych, the onetime president of Ukraine and a longtime ally of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.They then hid the existence of the companies and accounts — set up in Cyprus, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the Seychelles — from American tax authorities.Gates helped maintain these accounts and arranged substantial transfers from the accounts to both Manafort and himself, prosecutors argued in the charges against Mr. Gates made public on Friday. Acting on Mr. Manaforts instructions, Mr. Gates classified the overseas payments as loans to avoid having to pay income taxes.AdvertisementMr. Muellers team found that more than $75 million passed through offshore accounts, and that Mr. Manafort laundered more than $18 million to furnish a lavish, largely tax-free lifestyle. Mr. Gates transferred more than $3 million from the offshore accounts, court documents show.Mr. Manafort purchased multimillion-dollar homes, expensive clothing, antiques and a Range Rover. Mr. Gates used the money to pay his mortgage and school tuitions, and for the interior decorating of his home in Virginia.The work the two men did for their firm, Davis Manafort, connected them to numerous people with ties to the Kremlin. One was Oleg Deripaska, an aluminum magnate and an ally of Mr. Putins. Mr. Deripaska has been denied a visa to travel to the United States because of allegations that he is linked to organized crime operations, claims he has denied.Court records unsealed Friday revealed other lobbying schemes, including how Mr. Manafort used offshore accounts to wire more than 2 million euros to pay a group of former senior European politicians to take pro-Ukraine positions and lobby in the United States. In an Eyes Only memo that Mr. Manafort wrote in 2012, the purpose of the Super VIP effort was to assemble a group of politically credible friends who can act informally and without any visible relationship with the Government of Ukraine.After their Ukraine work was disclosed in news reports in August 2016, when Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates were working for the Trump campaign, they developed a false and misleading cover story to distance themselves from Ukraine, according Mr. Muellers prosecutors.Then, they covered their tracks when reporting their income to the Internal Revenue Service. Two months after Mr. Manafort left the campaign, according to the court documents, his accountant emailed him a question about whether he had any foreign bank accounts.None, he replied.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Rick Gatess employment after the election. He worked for the presidential inaugural committee, not the transition team. The article also misstated how long Mr. Gates traveled on the Trump campaign plane. He traveled with the candidate through the end of August, not Election Day.Mark Mazzetti reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Katie Benner and Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Campaign Adviser  Pleads Guilty and Agrees To Assist Mueller Inquiry.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Tech Were Using By                     
THE NEW YORK TIMES

FEB. 21, 2018
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Natasha Singer, a technology reporter for The Times in New York, discussed the tech shes using.You report on digital privacy, health and education technology. What are your most important tools for doing your job? Were living in a surveillance economy where sites and apps can track and categorize our every online move. In that ecosystem, encrypted communication services have become some of my most important reporting tools.For people who would rather not reach me through my corporate Gmail account at The Times, I use ProtonMail, an encrypted email service. I also use Signal, an encrypted text messaging and calling service. And I do some online research through Tor, a browser that masks your online address so sites cant track your physical location. I also use DuckDuckGo, a search engine that doesnt store your search history.AdvertisementMy wariness of tracking developed when I was a cub reporter in Moscow. On one of my first stories there, I invited a Russian legislator, who was a democracy advocate, to lunch at a restaurant near the Kremlin. She arrived and immediately started combing through a vase of flowers on the table, checking for government listening devices. After that, I often interviewed Russian democracy activists during walks in local parks and forests.AdvertisementIt made an impression on me that even the mere idea of being surveilled can chill peoples behavior.Now I view privacy not so much as the ability to keep your personal details away from prying government agencies or companies. Privacy is the right to choose which entities access information about you, control how those entities use your data, check the fairness of data-based decisions made about you, and correct errors.Since American consumers currently lack those kinds of rights over most of their data, Ive grown fond of tools that lift the hood on online tracking and profiling.One tool I use on my laptop is Disconnect, a service that shows you the third parties tracking you on every site. When I was reading articles this morning about the Trump administration, Disconnect counted 78 advertising networks, analytics services and others tracking me on HuffPost; 24 trackers on The New York Times site, and 19 on The Washington Post.What could be better about some of these tools?ProtonMail can be cumbersome. The service encrypts your emails before they reach the ProtonMail server. As a result, you cant search the texts of your emails for keywords if you use the free service. You can search only the subject lines.Its a constant reminder that ceding to online surveillance is much more frictionless than trying to limit it. Recently Apple investors raised concerns about smartphone addiction and children. Is this a problem and are there adequate solutions?AdvertisementIve heard from many parents, including a few physicians, concerned about the amount of time their kids are spending online at school and at home. Its so difficult to find the right balance between making sure our children are fluent with online tools and protecting them from getting sucked in by habit-forming video platforms and social networks. Many parents feel they are up against a powerful, interlocking ecosystem, designed to hook their kids on constant scrolling, watching, and clicking.Given the vast ecosystem, however, singling out Apple as the culprit seems to me a little bit like blaming only soda can manufacturers for Americans addiction to sugary beverages. Yes, it would be terrific if Apple introduced new control options for parents. But if shareholders want to fault companies for manipulating or addicting users, they should also be taking a hard look at Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, Netflix and many more.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Even small user-interface changes could make a big difference. Imagine if the default setting for streaming video services wasnt autoplay.On a larger level, weve seen over the past year how some Big Tech companies initially refused to take responsibility for the spread of fake news and other side effects of their innovations. In that context, platforms that nudge children and adults to stay online are merely one symptom of a much bigger problem.You wrote a series last year examining tech industry influence in American public schools. Now youre looking into Silicon Valleys increasing footprint in the health sector. What are the similarities and differences?Theres huge hype around the idea that tech can improve education. Same goes for health.So far, however, theres not much rigorous evidence that learning apps on their own improve students educational results. Likewise, there is little hard evidence that health apps by themselves reduce disease.Still, Im optimistic about the potential for software in health.Thats partly because a few tech companies are participating in rigorous studies, called randomized controlled trials. In these studies, researchers randomly select some volunteers to try a new intervention. By comparing the results in the treated and untreated groups, researchers could identify apps that do make significant health contributions.Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with in your daily life? Every weekend, I try out a new recipe from NYT Cooking. And while Im cooking, I listen to podcasts.Im currently devouring Uncivil, a history podcast on the Civil War. It unfolds like a detective story. And while youre engrossed in the plot twists, it neatly obliterates the standard American narrative of the Civil War.AdvertisementRight now, my family is on a bit of a Brit TV binge. We just watched the second season of The Crown, the fictional series on Queen Elizabeth II, and The Coronation, a glowing documentary featuring the real QE2. And we raced through Prime Suspect: Tennison, the prequel to the classic TV police procedural that starred Helen Mirren.I also just took an audio boot camp course at Columbia University School of Journalism. Now Im teaching myself to use Hindenburg, a radio editing program.Are you doing anything unusual to limit the spread of your data?It may seem quaint, but I still relish the idea that people in a democratic society have the right to be anonymous in public. I think Americans should be able to attend political protests or drive to the grocery store in our pajamas without being recognized by government agencies or companies.The recent proliferation of face recognition software, however, poses huge risks to public anonymity. In simple terms, face recognition software works by scanning a photo of your face and then converting your facial topography into a unique code, called a face print. The benefit — as well as the hazard — is that a company that takes a face print from one photo of you could potentially use it to identify you in any other photo or video frame.I may be particularly attuned to the fragility of public anonymity because, like many journalists, Ive been doxed.So, as an experiment, Ive been limiting photos of myself online to see whether I have any control over how they spread. As a kind of inside joke, my Twitter avatar is an illustration that Minh Uong, the art director in the Timess Business section, created for an article I once wrote about the risks of facial recognition.Follow Natasha Singer on Twitter: @natashanytA version of this article appears in print on February 22, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Limiting Influence of Tech While Reporting on It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
FEB. 22, 2018
Good morning on this cooler Thursday.Rosa Parks has been called the first lady of civil rights.But a century before Ms. Parks refused to give up her bus seat in Montgomery, Ala., a young black schoolteacher took a similar stand in New York that led to the desegregation of our citys public transit system.It might never have happened, but she was running late.On a sweltering Sunday morning in the summer of 1854, Elizabeth Jennings was on her way to play the organ at the First Colored American Congregational Church on Sixth Street in Lower Manhattan.In a hurry, she hailed a horse-drawn streetcar at the corner of Pearl and what was then called Chatham Street, according to  her account.AdvertisementWhen Ms. Jennings tried to hop on, the conductor stopped her and told her to wait for a car with her people in it.I then told him that I had no people, Ms. Jennings wrote, and she boarded the car anyway.Although New York had abolished slavery nearly 30 years before, many restaurants, churches, and schools were still segregated. Public transportation cars were marked with placards announcing whether African-Americans were allowed on board.Get out, the conductor ordered.I answered again that I was a respectable person, born and raised in New York, Ms. Jennings said, and that he was a good for nothing impudent fellow for insulting decent persons while on their way to church.The conductor tried to pull Ms. Jennings from the car, but she held onto the window frame.You shall sweat for this, he said.He drove without making stops to a corner on the Bowery and called over a police officer. The officer sided with the conductor and pushed Ms. Jennings onto the street, breaking her bonnet and dirtying her Sunday attire.AdvertisementThe officer tauntingly told me to get redress if I could, Ms. Jennings wrote hours later.She filed a lawsuit against the Third Avenue Railway Company, the operator of the streetcar, with the help of a lawyer, Chester A. Arthur, who would later become our 21st president.The court ruled in her favor, granting her $225 in damages and allowing all African-Americans to use public transit, as long as they were sober, well behaved, and free from disease.As a result of the ruling, within five years, the citys streetcars were largely integrated.Ms. Jennings went on to found the citys first kindergarten for African-American children, at her home on West 41st Street. Her story of defiance may not be widely known, but in 2007 a sign reading Elizabeth Jennings Place went up at the corner of Spruce Street and Park Row — 154 years and a few blocks from where she refused to get off the streetcar.Heres what else is happening:You knew it wouldnt last.Our balmy weather is gone. Temperatures will fall into the mid-30s by afternoon, and rain will come and go all day.•  As the temperature hit a record high by noon, the Bryant Park ice skating rink in Midtown was covered in puddles, but skaters were undeterred. [New York Times]• A federal judge rejected bail for the former charter schoolteacher who was arrested last week for what the authorities called a bomb-making effort with his twin brother. [New York Times]• Seventeen people were indicted in a scheme to dominate the citys towing industry, which prosecutors said defrauded insurers out of millions of dollars. [New York Times]• Representative Claudia Tenney, a Republican from Central New York, is being criticized after remarking that many mass murderers end up being Democrats. [New York Times]Advertisement• JPMorgan Chase announced that it planned to tear down its Park Avenue headquarters and build a bigger, sleeker building in an effort to take advantage of new zoning laws. [New York Times]• The return of a beloved French restaurant on the Upper East Side after an eight-year absence is testing the loyalty of the neighborhoods socialites. [New York Times]• Taking a look back to the 1990s, when New York City was as smoky inside as it was out, until the city began conceding to nonsmokers. [New York Times]• City taxpayers are taking on a larger share in paying for the citys homelessness crisis, according to a recent report. [New York Post]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency backed out of attending the annual career fair at Rutgers University in Newark after pressure from immigrant students and administrators. [WNYC]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Wheels on the Bus• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Films showcasing strong women will be screened through Sunday at the Athena Film Festival at Barnard College in Morningside Heights. Prices and times vary.• Kids can explore the former sites of Native American settlements at Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx. 1 p.m. [Free]• Visit the exhibition The Subconscious Canvas, which features work made by artists after they were hypnotized, at Contra Galleries in Chelsea. 5 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• A discussion, Descendants of Kings and Queens: Black Panther and Entangled African Cosmopolitanism, at The Jerry H. Labowitz Theatre for the Performing Arts at New York University in Greenwich Village. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• Knicks at Magic, 7 p.m. (MSG). Nets at Hornets, 7 p.m. (YES). Islanders at Maple Leafs, 7 p.m. (MS+2). Devils host Wild, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers at Canadiens, 7:30 p.m. (MSG2).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until March 1.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.We may have returned to winter, but at least its Beer Week.The local craft brew festival is hosting events through next weekend. Heres a sampling of events. (Prices vary.)Thursday: The five-borough challenge kicks off at Brookfield Place in Lower Manhattan. You can sample beers from across the city at a winter beer garden and vote for your favorite. The winners of the challenge will be crowned on Thursday, March 15. 4 to 9 p.m.Friday: Try food made with beer at the Waterfront Ale House in Kips Bay. 6:30 to 9:30 p.m.Saturday: Attend seminars, get expert advice and try local kombucha at the Fermentation Festival (10:30 to 4 p.m.), or sample suds from the nearly 100 breweries at the NYC Beer Week opening bash (6 to 9:30 p.m.), both at the Brooklyn Expo Center in Greenpoint Brooklyn.Sunday: Submit your homemade beer to the home-brew competition at Randolph Beer Dumbo, Brooklyn. 3 to 7 p.m.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
London Theater Reviews By                     
 MATT WOLF
 
FEB. 22, 2018
LONDON — Beware the bonhomie.Thats just one way of advising playgoers to be on their guard at Girls & Boys, the solo play from the Tony Award-winning writer Dennis Kelly (Matilda) that finds the performer Carey Mulligan in cheerfully chatty mode — for the first stretch, at least. The production, which runs through March 17, brings Ms. Mulligan, an Oscar-nominated actress, back to the Royal Court Theater for the third time.Ms. Mulligans unnamed character is dryly funny on any number of topics, from the vagaries of fate (I got Southampton, she says with regard to picking a travel destination at random) to airport etiquette and a job interview that she recollects in painstaking, bitterly comic detail, throwing in a fart joke for emphasis. Its easy to imagine knocking back a beer or two with her and emerging chums for life.Listen carefully to her words, however, and you may notice an underlying aggression. At that interview, for instance, Ms. Mulligan speaks of her potential employer sizing me up, like a psychopath weighing up which ear to cut off first.So its not a complete surprise when events take a shivery twist. (There are also hints in the director Lyndsey Turners ultraslick production, and in the thanks proffered by Mr. Kelly in the published text to Euripides, among others.)AdvertisementFor much of the time, Ms. Mulligan stands before us, like a chicly coifed if barefoot comedian eager to corral an expectant audience. Those scenes are interlaced with domestic encounters with two children, who remain unseen but nevertheless seem to demand every reserve of energy that this quick-witted, expletive-prone woman can muster.AdvertisementThe vignettes draw upon Ms. Mulligans unheralded gifts as a mime artist — suddenly, she must play an entire family — and come with a visual commentary: At various moments, the set from Es Devlin crackles into brightly vivid life, only to revert in an instant to the neutered, anesthetizing look that pervades throughout. (Ms. Devlin and Ms. Turner, the director, are frequent, and invaluable, collaborators.)Visual contrast is missing from this landscape. Something else is missing, as well, though to elaborate would result in an unforgivable spoiler. What can be said is that the Ms. Mulligan we see at the close of the uninterrupted 90 minutes has an altogether different aspect from the freewheeling raconteur seen at the start. Rather like the American playwright Neil LaBute, who has traversed comparable terrain in such plays as Bash: Latter-Day Plays, Mr. Kelly addresses humankinds capacity for violence at every turn. Not even the children are exempt.So far so good, if so depressing, though hardly more so than the world at large. But not content to leave well enough alone, Mr. Kelly dresses up his narrative in ways that detract from its power, like some overzealous puppeteer. More than once, there is the sort of rhetorical question — Does that make sense? — that in the theater tends to make me queasy, lest an overeager audience member reply. And Im not sure we need the reminder that this grievous tale represents only one side of the story. Since when did the theater become a courtroom requiring equal time for all?If the play overreaches for effect, theres no trace of the sensational in Ms. Mulligans performance, which is accompanied by a playfulness and quick-wittedness that bypass the gathering thesis-mongering of the final passages. (You cant help but feel that Mr. Kelly devised his play in order to corroborate a grim statistic thats mentioned near the end.) Girls & Boys may work from the outside in, but its blessed with an actress whose integrity anchors a play that, without her, might well seem a sleekly oiled con.For a stage monologue cut from less flashy (but more honest) cloth, try The B*easts, written and performed by Monica Dolan. Running at the Bush Theater in West London through March 3, the 65-minute production from the director John Hoggarth focuses on Tessa, a fortysomething psychotherapist who reports not altogether dispassionately on a case to which her character has a saddening personal connection.The moral inquiry on view involves a mother who has facilitated breast implants for her 8-year-old daughter amid a hypersexualized culture that, in the language of the play, wants you to want. Moving on to embrace the dark web, the depredations of Facebook and a society in which the phone has become a human right, Ms. Dolan proves as exacting an authorial commentator as she is a compelling stage presence. Forever leaning into the audience so as to gain our confidence, her Tessa becomes our guide in a world that gives genuine cause for alarm.I would be remiss not to commend (and how!) a third splendid actress — this one a visitor to the London stage. Marylouise Burke has long been a New York theater stalwart, and she has now crossed the Atlantic as the lone American performer in the National Theater premiere of Annie Bakers ravishing and mysterious John. (The production in the Dorfman auditorium finishes March 3.)Playing the landlady of a Pennsylvania boardinghouse filled to bursting with tchotchkes — if only there were tours of Chloe Lamfords set! — Ms. Burke presides with abiding sweetness over both the (quarrelsome) couple who have come to stay and the play itself: Her character, Mertis, pulls open the floor-length curtains at the start, welcoming us into some gently otherworldly realm. The bows at the end are staged as if in an opera house, and snippets from Offenbachs The Tales of Hoffmann prove crucial to the climactic scene.AdvertisementAmid an impeccable four-person ensemble, Ms. Burke is a league apart — not just for a fluty voice possessing cadences all its own, but also for her caress of Ms. Bakers signature flourishes. As directed by James Macdonald, the production is nowhere more moving than in Ms. Burkes enumeration of the various collective nouns for birds that include an exaltation of larks. By the end of the plays riveting three and a half hours (with two intermissions), it is we who are among the exalted, having been in the presence of a performer who is an absolute one-off, on either side of the Atlantic.Girls & Boys. Directed by Lyndsey Turner. Royal Court Jerwood Theater Downstairs, through March 17.The B*easts. Directed by John Hoggarth. Bush Theater, through March 3.John. Directed by James Macdonald. National Theater / Dorfman, through March 3.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JOHN HERRMANFEB. 21, 2018
YouTubes list of Trending videos typically includes funny clips, updates from popular YouTube personalities, movie trailers and viral TV segments. On Wednesday, for a brief time, the No. 1 trending video on YouTube featured David Hogg, a survivor of the massacre last week at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.The caption claimed, falsely, that Mr. Hogg, 17, was not a student, but an actor.The video, originally posted last August, was a brief local news segment. In it, Mr. Hogg was interviewed by the CBS affiliate in Los Angeles after witnessing a dispute between a lifeguard and a swimmer at Redondo Beach.On Tuesday, a YouTube user who went under the name mike m. copied and re-uploaded the video with a new caption: DAVID HOGG THE ACTOR....With that terse descriptor, mike m. tapped into conspiracies circulating online that the survivors of the Parkland shooting, many of whom have recently spoken out in favor of gun control, were crisis actors hired to do the bidding of left-wing activists.AdvertisementThe reposted video moved its way up the trending list overnight. By Wednesday morning, it had accumulated more than 200,000 views.AdvertisementI had no idea where all the attention was coming from, said mike m. in an online chat interview with The New York Times. I just noticed it started to take off.Many commenters were confused. Why is this on trending, especially on news? Nothing special, wrote one. Others, tipped off by the caption calling Mr. Hogg an actor, knew exactly what they thought they were seeing: Someone get this kid an Oscar! one wrote.By noon on Wednesday, YouTube had pulled the video for violating its policy on harassment and bullying.It was not the first time that YouTube had served not just as a source of fringe conspiracy theories, but as an accomplice in their rapid spread.After the massacre in Las Vegas last October, YouTubers filled a void of information about the killers motives with dark speculation, crowding the site with videos that were fonts of discredited and unproven information, including claims that the tragedy had been staged.After a mass shooting last November at a church in Sutherland Springs, Tex., those seeking news about the event on YouTube were overwhelmed by videos falsely claiming it had been a false flag attack meant to spur gun control measures or a plot carried out by the so-called antifa (short for anti-fascist) movement.In the wake of this latest tragedy, which left 17 people dead at the school in Parkland, YouTube still seemed caught by surprise by the rise of another video meant to peddle a baseless theory.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In 2017, we started rolling out changes to better surface authoritative news sources in search results, particularly around breaking news events, YouTube, which is owned by Google, said in a statement. Weve seen improvements, but in some circumstances these changes are not working quickly enough. In addition, last year we updated the application of our harassment policy to include hoax videos that target the victims of these tragedies.AdvertisementUnlike the other unhinged clips that have garnered significant attention on YouTube in the recent past, the video of the Parkland survivor originated with neither a conspiracy-oriented media organization like Infowars nor one of the popular YouTubers who have catered to far-right subcultures and fringe political factions.Instead, it was posted to the infrequently updated account run by mike m. Up until the reposting of the video featuring Mr. Hogg, the account had fewer than a dozen videos and fewer than 1,000 followers. Although he declined to provide much information about himself or give his full name, mike m. said that he was a 51-year-old man living in Idaho.The protests calling for stricter gun control measures come on the heels of other youth movements, but the momentum they have gained makes them stand out.His uploads included a handful of little-watched videos suggesting he is an avid fan of conspiracies. What inspired him to traffic in an unfounded theory about the Parkland shooting — aside from having more time on my hands these days, he said — were posts he had seen on the popular conspiracy site Godlike Productions. He pointed to comments on the site that claimed Mr. Hogg had been coached before giving interviews to members of the media who covered the massacre. Its also where he found references to the beach video from last August.Speaking to CNN on Tuesday, Mr. Hogg addressed the explosion of conspiracy theories head-on. Im not a crisis actor, said Mr. Hogg, who had been visiting family and friends when he appeared in the Los Angeles news segment. Im someone who had to witness this and live through this and I continue to be having to do that. Im not acting on anybodys behalf.The video posted by mike m. rapidly gained steam nonetheless.What propelled this one to popularity — and eventually into YouTubes promotional apparatus — came from outside the platform.Links to the video proliferated on 4chan, where users have gleefully embraced the conspiracy theories and mocked the shooting victims. When it hit YouTubes Trending page, some on 4chan celebrated: TRENDING IN THE USA, began one thread in the far-right politics board called /pol/. WERE BREAKING THE CONDITIONING.The mike m. video also found traction on Twitter, on Facebook and in stories and comment threads on conspiracy sites. It rose in the circuitous and unexpected manner of a viral video, rather than one that had been calculated to game YouTubes algorithms by seizing on interest in breaking news or tragedy — it had no catchy headline, no recognizable personality, no vast theorizing. And yet it blasted through YouTubes safeguards and somehow kept going, exposing the platform as vulnerable to sudden influence from inside and outside its walls.After YouTube removed the video, mike m. said his account had received a strike — that is how YouTube warns users that they have broken the sites rules or violated its guidelines. (Three strikes and youre out.) I mean, why strike me over a beach confrontation video??? he said. A second video he had posted about the shooting was gaining popularity Wednesday morning, he said, until it, too, was deleted, and another strike was added to his account.Anonymous and remorseless, mike m was undeterred. There is more to this kid than appears on MSM, he said, using the common shorthand for mainstream media. Asked if he would think twice about posting such videos in the future, he said, No not at all.AdvertisementHe said he was worried about his account getting deleted, adding: But I am not going to stop.A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Lies and Dark Speculation, Rising to No. 1 on YouTube.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JULIE TURKEWITZ and VIVIAN YEEFEB. 20, 2018
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Instead of 10th-grade English and 12th-grade calculus, the teenagers from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., had another funeral to attend. When the grim ceremony was over on Tuesday morning, they hugged their parents goodbye, stashed their backpacks in the bellies of three buses and set off in grief and hope to demand gun control measures from state lawmakers more than 400 miles away.As they were getting on the road, the lawmakers in Tallahassee swiftly rejected an effort to debate an assault weapons ban in a party-line vote that said much about how far apart most Democrats and Republicans are when it comes to guns. In the balcony, some Parkland students who had already made it to the Capitol could be seen crying, hands smothering mouths.It was an early reminder that failure might very well become familiar for these latest, youngest gun control activists, as it has for so many others. Republican lawmakers plan to consider more modest proposals, including raising the minimum age to buy assault rifles, before the session ends in March. Yet a kind of optimism — or maybe just an inability not to believe in their own power — was in the humid air.This shooting is different from the other ones, said Daniel Bishop, 16, who sat side-by-side with his sister on the second bus. Sandy Hook, they were elementary school kids who couldnt stand up for themselves. Virginia Tech was 2007, a different time. But this one, I just have a gut feeling — something is going to change.There was little to suggest yet that anything would. But in Battle Creek, Mich., in Bakersfield, Calif., in Toms River, N.J., in Iowa City, and all over South Florida, the flickers of underage protest this week seemed to augur something new: a coast-to-coast challenge to the idea that the Snapchat generation was too young, too frivolous, for politics.AdvertisementWe definitely have a moral obligation to do something, considering that so many innocent people that we know passed, said Mr. Bishops sister, Julia Bishop, 18. These adults, these politicians, these lawmakers, these legislators, they were supposed to protect us. And they didnt.AdvertisementMany of the protests around the country have arrived semi-spontaneously, apparently ignited by the impassioned pleas of young Parkland survivors in the hours and days after the shooting last Wednesday. Facebook and Twitter have amplified attendance; Snapchat and Instagram have documented the marches, signs and chants.Some on the left were hopeful that the unsullied voices of teenagers, cutting through the usual tussle over whether gun control advocates were politicizing a tragedy, would move previously unbudgeable lawmakers. Still, the students have faced questions from some conservatives over whether they are being exploited by the left. Bill OReilly on Tuesday asked on Twitter, Should the media be promoting opinions by teenagers who are in an emotional state and facing extreme peer pressure in some cases?In another sign of the deep entrenchment of guns, Bloomberg reported on Tuesday that a state pension plan for Florida teachers held more than $500,000 in shares in the company that manufactured the semiautomatic AR-15 assault rifle that was used in the attack in Parkland.For now, however, there is momentum. From South Florida to Bellingham, Wash., local walkouts were proliferating. A national event has been planned for March 14, the one-month anniversary of the Parkland shooting, when students and teachers plan to leave class for 17 minutes, one minute for each victim. On March 24, students will protest in Washington at an event organized by March for Our Lives, the group formed by Parkland survivors, which has received hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations from celebrities. Another mass walkout is scheduled for April 20, when students will commemorate the 19th year since the Columbine High School shooting in 1999.The organizers of last years Womens March are directing the March 14 walkout. Mostly, though, the adults have gotten out of the way.On Tuesday morning, hundreds of students from West Boca Raton High School in South Florida walked out of class and onto the roads, bound for Stoneman Douglas High, in a march that took Broward County officials by surprise. The authorities abruptly assembled a law enforcement escort for the students, said Todd DeAngelis, a city of Parkland spokesman. They also organized water stations along the way to help students, who walked nearly 11 miles, beat the heat.These kids may look like theyre summer campers, said Paul Corin, whose daughter, Jaclyn, helped organize the Parkland caravan to Tallahassee. But they are fierce warriors.AdvertisementIn Bakersfield, Calif., about a dozen students and 80 adults marched on Presidents Day in support of stricter gun laws. The same day, more than 200 students in Iowa City marched out of school, walked to the Old Capitol downtown and gathered to read the names of the Parkland victims.The N.R.A. has got to go, they chanted. Not one more, they chanted.At this point, youre either with us or against us, said Lujayn Hamad, a senior at West High School, according to The Iowa City Press-Citizen. We are dying, and Im not going to stand for it anymore.Some of the students of Toms River, N.J., also spent part of Presidents Day, a school holiday, massed on the steps of the squat, red brick public library. A young man who described himself as a 16-year-old junior led the crowd in chants of, Enough is enough! Enough is enough!Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This is what its come to, he said. In this country, kids are typically expected to take a back seat to what goes on in politics and policy, and whats going on right now — it cant happen like that any longer.Accusing Congress and state legislators of inaction, he advocated stronger gun restrictions. The other option, he said, was turning schools into armed camps where I have to be aware if theres a loud bang in the school, do I know where to go?The adults who have the responsibility to take care of these things have failed, he said. Its our generations responsibility.On Tuesday, at least 20 students walked out of Harper Creek High School in Battle Creek, Mich. The principal stood with them, and the districts superintendent was on hand.Students left class or held gatherings all over South Florida on Monday and Tuesday. There was American Heritage School in Plantation. Olympic Heights High School in suburban Boca Raton. Park Vista Community High School in Lake Worth. Fort Lauderdale High School in Fort Lauderdale. McArthur High School in Hollywood.At South Broward High School, students aimed to participate in a protest almost every day to make their point.AdvertisementThey started with a protest at their school in Hollywood last Friday, and then rallied in Fort Lauderdale on Saturday and at Hollywood City Hall on Monday, said Rachel Donly, a 16-year-old sophomore.We dont think anyone is truly listening to us yet, said Ms. Donly, whose father is a teacher. So we dont want to give up. Were just going to keep fighting.On the Parkland buses, pillows and sleeping bags had been mushed into the seats. Candy and doughnuts were passed from row to row. Laughter occasionally poked through. But the people the students were traveling for — their fallen classmates, coaches, teachers — were never far from their minds.Anthony Lopez, 16, a junior, was sitting alone in the back. He had scratched out a wish list he planned to deliver to lawmakers.Ban on military grade weapons (assault weapons, etc.) he had written.Universal background check, stricter, he had added.Raise age for gun ownership (20+), unless for sport or hunting (16+).Then the news arrived that the Florida House had refused even to consider a ban on assault weapons. How could lawmakers ignore the activism that had lit up social media, the students wondered.They know that multiple kids, hundreds of kids, are coming up to the state Capitol, which by the way is extremely far, just to talk to them, Mr. Bishop said.In the back, Mr. Lopez slammed his head back on the bus seat. He placed a hand on his forehead.Thats infuriating, he said. Theyre acting inhuman.Julie Turkewitz reported from Tallahassee, Fla., and Vivian Yee from New York. Anemona Hartocollis contributed reporting from New York, and Alan Blinder from Parkland, Fla.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Gut Feeling Something Is Going to Change.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARK LANDLER and MICHAEL D. SHEARFEB. 16, 2018
WASHINGTON — He brushed it off as a hoax. He mused that it might be China, or a guy from New Jersey, or somebody sitting on their bed who weighs 400 pounds. He said President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had assured him it wasnt true. And, he added, I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it.President Trump has never stopped belittling the charge that Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election. But on Friday, with the indictment of 13 Russians for orchestrating a vast, well-funded operation to interfere in the election, those denials collided with a mountain of evidence arrayed by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.For Mr. Trump, who has tried to discredit Mr. Muellers investigation as a politically motivated witch hunt, it was a direct assault on the version of reality that he has sought tirelessly to create.By laying out a meticulous case for how Russia tried to tip the electoral scales toward Mr. Trump in 2016, Mr. Mueller has made it much harder for the president to dismiss the investigation as mere politics. He may also have made it harder for Mr. Trump to fire Mr. Mueller himself, since, as some Democratic lawmakers argued, that would look like an attempt to help Russia further undermine American democracy.AdvertisementBefore the charges were announced, the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, briefed Mr. Trump and Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, and handed over a copy of the indictment, according to a person briefed on the matter. Mr. Mueller was not present at the briefing.AdvertisementOn Friday afternoon, after Mr. Trump left Washington for his Palm Beach, Fla., estate, the White House issued a defiant statement claiming that the investigation had uncovered no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.
                Thirteen Russian nationals have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process through inflammatory social media posts and organized political rallies.            Its time we stop the outlandish partisan attacks, wild and false allegations, and far-fetched theories, which only serve to further the agendas of bad actors, like Russia, and do nothing to protect the principles of our institutions, the president said in a statement.In a tweet, Mr. Trump played up Mr. Muellers assertion that the Russian operation had begun in 2014, well before he declared his candidacy. The Trump campaign did nothing wrong — no collusion! he wrote.Far from being rattled, Mr. Trump was elated, according to his advisers, because he viewed it as evidence that Mr. Mueller now knows who the malefactors are — and they do not include him or members of his team. (The indictment refers to campaign officials who met or communicated with Russians, but says they were unwitting.)Yet Mr. Trump sidestepped the fact that he has stubbornly denied Russias interference, even after two assessments by the nations intelligence agencies concluded that Russia had meddled. Last November, during a trip to Asia, Mr. Trump said that Mr. Putin had told him that Russia did not meddle, and that he was inclined to believe him.Every time he sees me he says, I didnt do that, and I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it, Mr. Trump said. I think he is very insulted by it, he added, which is not a good thing for our country.Mr. Trump went so far as to suggest that the heads of the intelligence agencies at the time of the 2016 election — John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director; James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence; and James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director — were less trustworthy than Mr. Putin.AdvertisementI mean, give me a break — theyre political hacks, he told reporters. You have Brennan, you have Clapper, and you have Comey. Comeys proven now to be a liar, and hes proven to be a leaker, so you look at that.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, the response on Capitol Hill was resounding — at least concerning the gravity of Russias actions — and it could narrow Mr. Trumps room for maneuver as he tries to limit the political fallout from the investigation.The Russians engaged in a sinister and systematic attack on our political system, the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, said. It was a conspiracy to subvert the process, and take aim at democracy itself.The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, said the indictment was further proof that Vladimir Putin directed a campaign to interfere with our elections, with the goal of tipping the outcome. He called on Mr. Trump to immediately reverse his decision not to impose sanctions against Russia that were recently passed by Congress.Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, argued that any attempts to remove Mr. Mueller or Mr. Rosentein will have to be seen as a direct attempt to aid the Russian government in attacking American democracy.Mr. Trump has not hesitated to put Mr. Muellers future in jeopardy. Last July, he threatened to dismiss the special counsel if his investigation ranged too far afield from Russias campaign meddling. In an interview with The New York Times, he complained that Mr. Muellers office was rife with conflicts of interest and that the investigation had crossed a red line.A month earlier, several officials said, Mr. Trump actually gave an order to fire Mr. Mueller but backed down after Mr. McGahn threatened to resign rather than carry it out.Mr. Trumps strategy for dealing with charges of Russian meddling has not varied much since the campaign: deny, obfuscate, play down and, since Election Day, blame it on Democrats bitter after Hillary Clintons defeat.How do bots and trolls work to infiltrate social media platforms and influence U.S. elections? We take a closer look at these insidious online pests to explain how they work.In May, Mr. Trump told Lester Holt, the NBC News anchor, This Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story. Its an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they shouldve won.AdvertisementIn September, he tweeted that the Russia hoax continues, now its ads on Facebook. What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary? PolitiFact called Mr. Trumps denial of Russian meddling its 2017 Lie of the Year.Since taking office, Mr. Trump has often expressed concern that the charges undermine the legitimacy of his presidency. He has told associates that if he accepts the premise of Russian meddling, it will call into question the idea that he won the election on his own merits.That fear drove many of Mr. Trumps most incendiary tweets and statements throughout his first year in office, especially about the size and breadth of his electoral victory. The day after his inauguration, Mr. Trump ordered his press secretary, Sean Spicer, to insist that his inaugural crowd was the largest in history, which it demonstrably was not.In news conferences, on Twitter and at rallies, he has called the Russia investigation fake news and repeatedly predicted that Mr. Muellers investigation will end without finding much.Mr. Muellers indictment does not settle the overarching question of whether Mr. Trump or any of his campaign associates colluded with Russia. For now, the president has seized on that as evidence of his innocence.But as Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, put it, The indictment leaves open the vital question of whether Americans, including any associated with the Trump campaign, knowingly played a role in Russias active-measures campaign.That seemed a likely avenue of inquiry for an investigation that is casting a lengthening shadow on Mr. Trumps presidency.Maggie Haberman and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reportingGet politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this news analysis appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: A Reality Check for the President Who Cried Hoax.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JOHN HERRMANFEB. 21, 2018
YouTubes list of Trending videos typically includes funny clips, updates from popular YouTube personalities, movie trailers and viral TV segments. On Wednesday, for a brief time, the No. 1 trending video on YouTube featured David Hogg, a survivor of the massacre last week at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.The caption claimed, falsely, that Mr. Hogg, 17, was not a student, but an actor.The video, originally posted last August, was a brief local news segment. In it, Mr. Hogg was interviewed by the CBS affiliate in Los Angeles after witnessing a dispute between a lifeguard and a swimmer at Redondo Beach.On Tuesday, a YouTube user who went under the name mike m. copied and re-uploaded the video with a new caption: DAVID HOGG THE ACTOR....With that terse descriptor, mike m. tapped into conspiracies circulating online that the survivors of the Parkland shooting, many of whom have recently spoken out in favor of gun control, were crisis actors hired to do the bidding of left-wing activists.AdvertisementThe reposted video moved its way up the trending list overnight. By Wednesday morning, it had accumulated more than 200,000 views.AdvertisementI had no idea where all the attention was coming from, said mike m. in an online chat interview with The New York Times. I just noticed it started to take off.Many commenters were confused. Why is this on trending, especially on news? Nothing special, wrote one. Others, tipped off by the caption calling Mr. Hogg an actor, knew exactly what they thought they were seeing: Someone get this kid an Oscar! one wrote.By noon on Wednesday, YouTube had pulled the video for violating its policy on harassment and bullying.It was not the first time that YouTube had served not just as a source of fringe conspiracy theories, but as an accomplice in their rapid spread.After the massacre in Las Vegas last October, YouTubers filled a void of information about the killers motives with dark speculation, crowding the site with videos that were fonts of discredited and unproven information, including claims that the tragedy had been staged.After a mass shooting last November at a church in Sutherland Springs, Tex., those seeking news about the event on YouTube were overwhelmed by videos falsely claiming it had been a false flag attack meant to spur gun control measures or a plot carried out by the so-called antifa (short for anti-fascist) movement.In the wake of this latest tragedy, which left 17 people dead at the school in Parkland, YouTube still seemed caught by surprise by the rise of another video meant to peddle a baseless theory.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In 2017, we started rolling out changes to better surface authoritative news sources in search results, particularly around breaking news events, YouTube, which is owned by Google, said in a statement. Weve seen improvements, but in some circumstances these changes are not working quickly enough. In addition, last year we updated the application of our harassment policy to include hoax videos that target the victims of these tragedies.AdvertisementUnlike the other unhinged clips that have garnered significant attention on YouTube in the recent past, the video of the Parkland survivor originated with neither a conspiracy-oriented media organization like Infowars nor one of the popular YouTubers who have catered to far-right subcultures and fringe political factions.Instead, it was posted to the infrequently updated account run by mike m. Up until the reposting of the video featuring Mr. Hogg, the account had fewer than a dozen videos and fewer than 1,000 followers. Although he declined to provide much information about himself or give his full name, mike m. said that he was a 51-year-old man living in Idaho.The protests calling for stricter gun control measures come on the heels of other youth movements, but the momentum they have gained makes them stand out.His uploads included a handful of little-watched videos suggesting he is an avid fan of conspiracies. What inspired him to traffic in an unfounded theory about the Parkland shooting — aside from having more time on my hands these days, he said — were posts he had seen on the popular conspiracy site Godlike Productions. He pointed to comments on the site that claimed Mr. Hogg had been coached before giving interviews to members of the media who covered the massacre. Its also where he found references to the beach video from last August.Speaking to CNN on Tuesday, Mr. Hogg addressed the explosion of conspiracy theories head-on. Im not a crisis actor, said Mr. Hogg, who had been visiting family and friends when he appeared in the Los Angeles news segment. Im someone who had to witness this and live through this and I continue to be having to do that. Im not acting on anybodys behalf.The video posted by mike m. rapidly gained steam nonetheless.What propelled this one to popularity — and eventually into YouTubes promotional apparatus — came from outside the platform.Links to the video proliferated on 4chan, where users have gleefully embraced the conspiracy theories and mocked the shooting victims. When it hit YouTubes Trending page, some on 4chan celebrated: TRENDING IN THE USA, began one thread in the far-right politics board called /pol/. WERE BREAKING THE CONDITIONING.The mike m. video also found traction on Twitter, on Facebook and in stories and comment threads on conspiracy sites. It rose in the circuitous and unexpected manner of a viral video, rather than one that had been calculated to game YouTubes algorithms by seizing on interest in breaking news or tragedy — it had no catchy headline, no recognizable personality, no vast theorizing. And yet it blasted through YouTubes safeguards and somehow kept going, exposing the platform as vulnerable to sudden influence from inside and outside its walls.After YouTube removed the video, mike m. said his account had received a strike — that is how YouTube warns users that they have broken the sites rules or violated its guidelines. (Three strikes and youre out.) I mean, why strike me over a beach confrontation video??? he said. A second video he had posted about the shooting was gaining popularity Wednesday morning, he said, until it, too, was deleted, and another strike was added to his account.Anonymous and remorseless, mike m was undeterred. There is more to this kid than appears on MSM, he said, using the common shorthand for mainstream media. Asked if he would think twice about posting such videos in the future, he said, No not at all.AdvertisementHe said he was worried about his account getting deleted, adding: But I am not going to stop.A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Lies and Dark Speculation, Rising to No. 1 on YouTube.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARK MAZZETTI and MAGGIE HABERMANFEB. 23, 2018
WASHINGTON — A former top adviser to Donald J. Trumps presidential campaign has agreed to cooperate with the special counsel inquiry into Russias interference in the 2016 election after pleading guilty on Friday to financial fraud and lying to investigators.The adviser, Rick Gates, is a longtime political consultant who once served as Mr. Trumps deputy campaign chairman. The plea deal could be a significant development in the investigation — a sign that Mr. Gates plans to offer incriminating information against his longtime associate and the former Trump campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, and possibly other members of the campaign in exchange for a lighter punishment. He faces up to nearly six years in prison.The deal came as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has been raising pressure on Mr. Gates and Mr. Manafort with dozens of new charges of money laundering and bank fraud unsealed on Thursday. Both men were first indicted in October and pleaded not guilty. The plea agreement was part of a flurry of recent activity by the special counsels team. Last week, 13 Russians were indicted on charges relating to a carefully planned scheme to incite political discord in the United States in the months before the 2016 election.Mr. Gates changed his plea on Friday during an appearance in a Washington courtroom, his eyes cast down as the government outlined the charges against him. A man who had made millions of dollars lobbying in Ukraine accepted the fate that may await him: a prison sentence for carrying out a financial conspiracy to hide the money he earned there.AdvertisementHe also admitted that he lied to investigators this month — while under indictment and negotiating with prosecutors — about the details of a 2013 meeting about Ukraine that Mr. Manafort had with a pro-Russian member of Congress.AdvertisementWhat the dramatic courtroom scene might mean for President Trump depends on what Mr. Gates has to offer the special counsel, though at the least, the plea agreement is further evidence that the Trump campaign attracted a cast of advisers who overstepped legal and ethical boundaries. The indictments so far have not indicated that either Mr. Gates or Mr. Manafort had information about the central question of Mr. Muellers investigation — whether Mr. Trump or his aides coordinated with the Russian governments efforts to disrupt the 2016 election.But Mr. Gates was present for the most significant periods of the campaign, as Mr. Trump began forging policy positions and his digital campaign operation engaged with millions of voters on social media platforms such as Facebook. Even after Mr. Manafort was fired by Mr. Trump in August 2016, Mr. Gates remained with the campaign at the request of Stephen K. Bannon, who took over as head of the campaign.From there, Mr. Gates assumed a different role — as a liaison between the campaign and the Republican National Committee — and traveled aboard the Trump plane through the end of August.In addition to offering visibility into the Trump campaign, Mr. Gates might be able to provide prosecutors with glimpses into decision-making in the months after Mr. Trumps election victory. Mr. Gates was a senior aide on the presidential inaugural committee, and in the months after the inauguration, he worked with America First Policies, the main outside group supporting the Trump presidency.Besides the agreement with Mr. Gates, the special counsels team has already secured guilty pleas from two of Mr. Trumps advisers. Michael T. Flynn, the presidents first national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy aide during the campaign, have both pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and agreed to cooperate with the inquiry.Mr. Gatess plea deal came together over the past few days, according to people familiar with the process. In a letter to friends and family, Mr. Gates said there had been false news stories about an impending plea deal over the past two weeks.But, he added, Despite my initial desire to vigorously defend myself, I have had a change of heart. The reality of how long this legal process will likely take, the cost, and the circuslike atmosphere of an anticipated trial are too much. I will better serve my family moving forward by exiting this process.Advertisement[Read our 2017 profile of Rick Gates »]Testimony from Mr. Gates could give Mr. Muellers team a first-person account of the criminal conduct that is claimed in the indictments — a potential blow to Mr. Manaforts defense strategy. On Friday, Mr. Manafort pledged to continue the fight.Get the latest on the special counsel investigation — and other major news — delivered to your email inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Notwithstanding that Rick Gates pleaded today, I continue to maintain my innocence, he said in a statement. I had hoped and expected my business colleague would have had the strength to continue the battle to prove our innocence. For reasons yet to surface he chose to do otherwise. This does not alter my commitment to defend myself against the untrue piled up charges contained in the indictments against me.After Mr. Gatess plea hearing, prosecutors filed a new indictment against Mr. Manafort. That indictment did not allege new charges against him, but was done for procedural purposes as prosecutors pursue separate cases in Washington and Northern Virginia.The court papers give few specifics about how Mr. Gates came to be charged with lying to the F.B.I. On Feb. 1, as he was negotiating with prosecutors about a possible deal, Mr. Gates misled investigators about a conversation he had with Mr. Manafort in March 2013, after Mr. Manafort had met with the congressman to discuss the situation in Ukraine. The documents do not name the lawmaker, but news accounts have identified him as Representative Dana Rohrabacher of California, a Republican long known for his pro-Russia views.Mr. Gates falsely told investigators that Mr. Manafort had told him that the subject of Ukraine had not come up at the meeting, even though Mr. Gates had helped draft a report to Ukraines leadership after the meeting about what had transpired, according to the court papers.Court records detail a byzantine scheme he and Mr. Manafort employed from about 2006 to 2015 in which they funneled millions of dollars they earned from their work as political consultants in Ukraine into shell companies and foreign bank accounts. The men worked in various capacities with Viktor F. Yanukovych, the onetime president of Ukraine and a longtime ally of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.They then hid the existence of the companies and accounts — set up in Cyprus, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the Seychelles — from American tax authorities.Gates helped maintain these accounts and arranged substantial transfers from the accounts to both Manafort and himself, prosecutors argued in the charges against Mr. Gates made public on Friday. Acting on Mr. Manaforts instructions, Mr. Gates classified the overseas payments as loans to avoid having to pay income taxes.AdvertisementMr. Muellers team found that more than $75 million passed through offshore accounts, and that Mr. Manafort laundered more than $18 million to furnish a lavish, largely tax-free lifestyle. Mr. Gates transferred more than $3 million from the offshore accounts, court documents show.Mr. Manafort purchased multimillion-dollar homes, expensive clothing, antiques and a Range Rover. Mr. Gates used the money to pay his mortgage and school tuitions, and for the interior decorating of his home in Virginia.The work the two men did for their firm, Davis Manafort, connected them to numerous people with ties to the Kremlin. One was Oleg Deripaska, an aluminum magnate and an ally of Mr. Putins. Mr. Deripaska has been denied a visa to travel to the United States because of allegations that he is linked to organized crime operations, claims he has denied.Court records unsealed Friday revealed other lobbying schemes, including how Mr. Manafort used offshore accounts to wire more than 2 million euros to pay a group of former senior European politicians to take pro-Ukraine positions and lobby in the United States. In an Eyes Only memo that Mr. Manafort wrote in 2012, the purpose of the Super VIP effort was to assemble a group of politically credible friends who can act informally and without any visible relationship with the Government of Ukraine.After their Ukraine work was disclosed in news reports in August 2016, when Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates were working for the Trump campaign, they developed a false and misleading cover story to distance themselves from Ukraine, according Mr. Muellers prosecutors.Then, they covered their tracks when reporting their income to the Internal Revenue Service. Two months after Mr. Manafort left the campaign, according to the court documents, his accountant emailed him a question about whether he had any foreign bank accounts.None, he replied.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Rick Gatess employment after the election. He worked for the presidential inaugural committee, not the transition team. The article also misstated how long Mr. Gates traveled on the Trump campaign plane. He traveled with the candidate through the end of August, not Election Day.Mark Mazzetti reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Katie Benner and Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Campaign Adviser  Pleads Guilty and Agrees To Assist Mueller Inquiry.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 LUIS FERRÉ-SADURNÍ
 
FEB. 21, 2018
Good morning on this springlike Wednesday.Look up, before they disappear for good.New York City is haunted by hundreds of ghost signs: advertisements painted on the sides of buildings decades ago. Many are fading away along with tidbits of the citys history.We recently met up with Benjamin Passikoff, a photographer who published a book on the signs, The Writing on the Wall, and he showed us some of his favorites.Sixth Avenue between 34th and 35th StreetsThe brick-colored sign on the side of the Marbridge Building at 1328 Broadway is easy to miss, overshadowed by the colorful facade of Desigual, a trendy Spanish clothing company.It was an ad for Weber & Heilbroner, once one of the largest mens clothing retailers. Its store moved into the Marbridge Building in the early 1920s, Mr. Passikoff said.AdvertisementThese mens stores were very popular throughout the 20th century, but they could not compete with larger department stores like Macys, Lord & Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman, he said. Many were bought out for assets, or absorbed by larger stores.Madison Avenue and 33rd StreetNew York City was once a leader in designing and producing fashionable handbags for women. The nine signs on the side of 30 East 33rd Street, painted in the 1950s, showcase now-defunct brands like Coblentz and Alan Miller.AdvertisementA bright yellow sign advertises Magid, a handbag company that has survived — its offices are on Fifth Avenue a few blocks from the sign.Every time I see it, it gives me a little bit of excitement, said Pinny Rand, whose family bought the rights to the Magid name in the 1990s.Lexington Avenue and 32nd StreetA royal blue sign on the back of 192 Lexington Avenue advertises Manning, Bowman & Co., a Connecticut company famous for its metalware: kettles, pots, service kits, fans, toasters, bar goods and the like.Their products represent a beautiful Art Deco style and are in many museum collections today, Mr. Passikoff said.Heres what else is happening:Mercury Rises to 68, Record for Feb. 21; Holiday Seekers Jam Trains to Resorts.That was the headline in 1930. There was a rush on plane tickets to Boston, too. Fifty-five applicants could get no seats because of lack of accommodations, The Times reported.Today that record should fall: 71 degrees is the forecast high, under partly sunny skies.We also confidently predict that there will be some jammed trains this morning.AdvertisementTomorrow should be a little more normal, rainy with highs in the mid-40s.• The new head of New York City Transit vowed to provide the public with more detailed information as to why trains are delayed. [New York Times]• Authorities have refused to release a 17-year-old native of El Salvador who is accused of being a member of the MS-13 street gang, despite a judge saying he is not a safety risk. [New York Times]• After almost 110 years, Yales famed Whiffenpoofs, an a cappella singing group, have added a female tenor to their ranks. [New York Times]• Prosecutors latest examples in the Albany corruption case of Joseph Percoco involve his wifes job, including science fairs, library trips and a teachers performance review. [New York Times]• After a judge ruled in favor of the graffiti artists who created the murals on the 5Pointz building complex, questions about the future of graffiti are being raised. [New York Times]• After nearly 15 years of court appearances and legal hearings, Brooklyn prosecutors are planning on retrying the murder case of John Giuca if their recently overturned conviction is unsuccessful. [New York Times]• East Brunswick, N.J., will be placing armed police officers in its schools, as districts reevaluate their security measures in the wake of the recent Florida shooting. [New York Times]• In a small town about 50 miles north of New York City, firefighters staged a fundraising raffle with a prize of an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle, springing the towns discussions into the national gun debate. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Jeffrey Bell, the conservative theorist and advocate for tax-cutting from New Jersey, died at 74. [New York Times]Advertisement• Kick Axe, a sports bar in Gowanus, has become a popular spot where patrons can hurl axes at wooden targets. [New York Times]• For the first time in New Jerseys history, women will be a majority in the governors cabinet. [PIX 11]• A new lawsuit alleges that Tavern on the Green, the well-known Central Park restaurant, has shorted its employees on their tips and paychecks. [New York Daily News]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Dogs of the Upper West Side• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Celebrate Chinese New Year with ballroom and belly dancing at the Lost Battalion Hall Recreation Center in Rego Park, Queens. 9:30 a.m. [Free]• Learn the basics of American Sign Language at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 10:45 a.m. [Free]• Watch short films by female directors at The New York Public Library Stephen A. Schwarzman Building in Midtown. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until March 1.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.AdvertisementOn this date in 1965, Malcolm X, the contentious civil rights leader, was shot to death during a rally at the Audubon Ballroom in Washington Heights.Malcolm, a bearded extremist, had said only a few words of greeting when a fusillade rang out. The bullets knocked him over backward, The Times reported at the time. He was 39.Although Malcolm was born in Nebraska, he spent much of his life in New York City, where he ascended to the local Harlem spotlight and became a national media figure.In the early 1950s, he founded and preached at the Mosque 7, now a Sunni Muslim mosque in Harlem called Masjid Malcolm Shabazz.Malcolm and his family lived in a house at 23-11 97th Street in East Elmhurst in Queens. The house was firebombed a week before his murder.He was assassinated by three members of the Nation of Islam, a religious movement with which he had cut ties a few months earlier.Im a marked man, Malcolm told a Times reporter a week before his death. No one can get out without trouble, and this thing with me will be resolved by death and violence. New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By AMANDA FORTINIFEB. 21, 2018
FEEL FREEEssaysBy Zadie Smith452 pp. Penguin Press. $28.As a teenager, Zadie Smith discovered Hanif Kureishis novel The Buddha of Suburbia and felt her world crack open. Kureishi, who is British-Pakistani, made his narrator and protagonist, Karim, mixed race as well. Smith, the child of a black Jamaica-born mother and a white British father, wasnt used to seeing biracial characters in fiction. Practically the only star I had to steer by was that old, worn-out, paper-thin character the tragic mulatto, she writes in her latest collection of essays, Feel Free, whom I found in bad novels and worse movies. But Karim wasnt tragic, nor was he an idealized, anodyne role model. He was, in Smiths words, pushy, wild, charismatic, street-smart, impudent, often hilarious.Kureishi isnt interested in pieties, and neither, refreshingly, is Smith, as anyone who has read her essays in Harpers, The New Yorker and The New York Review of Books knows. Smith argues that it is Kureishis willingness to be impious, perverse and rude that gives the novel its singular power: All the great energy of Buddha comes from watching the liberty of creative freedom being taken, over and over again — as if it were a right. Which, of course, it is. But thats not always obvious to young artists, particularly those who dont see themselves represented in the status quo. Reading the novel, Smith felt something impossible loosen within me, she writes in The I Who Is Not Me, the inaugural Philip Roth Lecture, which she delivered at the Newark Public Library in 2016. It was a gift of freedom.A few years after this formative moment, in 2000, she published White Teeth, her celebrated debut novel. Smith has written four novels since then, and in the past decade, she has also produced a significant body of smart, incisive nonfiction, much of it occasioned by encounters with books and film and visual art, from Kureishis novel to Balthasar Denners 18th-century painting Alte Frau to Jordan Peeles film Get Out. Although her essays range over many topics — Brexit, Facebook, climate change, cultural appropriation, pleasure versus joy — she is interested in the making and meaning of cultural artifacts, and in the exchange of feeling that takes place between art and its audience, between text and reader: what she calls the essential, living communication between art work and viewer.As the title of her new collection suggests, here Smith explores variations on a theme: freedom of language and thought; freedom from received narratives that tend to be foolishly consistent, if not downright constricting; freedom from the impossible identities society so facilely places on people, or from those we too readily adopt ourselves. Most of all, though, shes concerned with artistic and aesthetic freedom, with the boldness and daring that compel an artist to create even when conditions seem hostile. In 1969, she notes, it was a radical act for a Jewish author to write a foul-mouthed, sex-obsessed, masturbating character like Alexander Portnoy. But in taking this freedom for himself, Smith writes, Roth, intentionally or not, passed that freedom down to readers and writers like Smith, who came after him.AdvertisementFreedom is a conceit well suited to a collection of essays. Aldous Huxley called the essay a literary device for saying almost everything about almost anything — and this is Smiths approach. She writes about her lower-middle-class upbringing by way of the second bathroom in her childhood home: The spare room, the extra toilet — these represented, for my parents, a very British form of achievement. She mourns her father while celebrating the exhilarating democracy of Italian public parks, and she explores Justin Bieber as love-object through the philosophy of Martin Buber. The essay forms freewheeling nature arguably accounts for its current popularity. Readers, hip to the conventions of storytelling — we fill our commutes with podcasts and fetishize long-form narratives — are drawn to the essay, which lends itself to the unexpected and original. Behind the best contemporary essays you can sense the writers beating heart.Smiths style is casual, discursive, but not collagelike in the current fashion, intimate without being overly personal. Taking her children to The Polar Express 4-D Experience on the same day she sees Charlie Kaufmans puppet film, Anomalisa — while carrying a pocket book of Schopenhauer around — yields Windows on the Will: Anomalisa, an essay that examines Kaufmans film through its Schopenhauerian fixation on human suffering (the easier to dramatize with puppets): the inevitability of it, and the possibility of momentary, illusory relief from it. Similarly, in Man Versus Corpse, the discovery of a forlorn little hardbacked book about Italian masterpieces on a table in her lobby leads to a close reading of Luca Signorellis painting Nude Man From the Back Carrying a Corpse on His Shoulders, which in turn opens up into a rambling discussion of existence, inequality (the unequal distribution of corpses), Rothko, Warhol (an enthusiastic proponent of corpse art), iPhones and her own inability to imagine herself as a corpse, before ending at a dinner party with talk of Knausgaard and his multivolume cathedral of boredom.AdvertisementIt is exquisitely pleasurable to observe Smith thinking on the page, not least because we have no idea where shes headed. Notes on Attunement, her well-known essay on Joni Mitchell, recounts the sudden epiphany that took her from Joni Mitchell-hating pilgrim to a fan who weeps with joy at her music, touching on Wordsworth, connoisseurship, Seneca, Kierkegaard and the inconsistency of the self along the way. At times she reminds me of a musician jamming, or one of those enviable cooks who can take five random ingredients lying around the kitchen and whip up a meal. Her loose, roving essays cohere because they are rooted in her sensibility, in what Elizabeth Hardwick called the soloists personal signature flowing through the text.How to characterize Smiths sensibility? Above all, shes allergic to dishonesty, hypocrisy, sanctimony, cant. For many people in London right now, she writes in Fences: A Brexit Diary, the supposedly multicultural and cross-class aspects of their lives are actually represented by their staff — nannies, cleaners — by the people who pour their coffees and drive their cabs, or else the handful of Nigerian princes you meet in private schools. She takes a wide-lens, Olympian view, often empathizing with both sides of an issue — her arguments can thus be difficult to pinpoint — but she is ultimately pragmatic. One useful consequence of Brexit, she writes, is to finally and openly reveal a deep fracture in British society that has been 30 years in the making.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At root she believes that art is a realm where knotty issues can be safely explored, and that we should not draw neat boundaries around its subjects. Such is the argument of her much-discussed essay on Get Out, which first appeared in Harpers: Its a fantasy that we can get out of each others way, mark a clean cut between black and white, she concludes in that essay, which also examines the controversy over the white artist Dana Schutzs painting of Emmett Till. In an open letter, the artist Hannah Black had asked the Whitney Biennial to remove and destroy the painting, on the grounds that Schutz had no right to depict black suffering; the request, Smith writes, was the province of Nazis and censorious evangelicals. The problem with such racial essentialism, she suggests elsewhere in this collection, is that it can run both ways. See the narrow, patronizing tendency to ascribe to black artists some generalized aim, like inserting the black figure into the white canon. This trivializes the formal and technical concerns of the artist, Smith writes, the unique problem each art work poses.Smith is an appreciator of art, a connoisseur, rather than a stern critic. Its rare that she writes about anything she dislikes. Indeed, if the book has a subtheme, it is joy, a feeling not often discussed outside of New Age circles. Its an emotion brought about by giving birth, falling in love, taking drugs — those almost unbearably exquisite experiences that the final essay, Joy, recounts — but also by art: Joni Mitchells music, Fred Astaires dancing, the defiantly campy street strut of the man in Marc Bradfords video Niagara.Of course, as Smith notes in her foreword, the idea of freedom has taken on new resonance in the past year, and I have often heard it asked whether art that is not expressly political is still necessary or worthwhile. But as Smith writes: You cant fight for a freedom youve forgotten how to identify. Art — making it, contemplating it — reminds us what its like to feel free.Amanda Fortini is a writer and visiting lecturer at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.A version of this review appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page BR10 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Joy Ride.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.By JULIE TURKEWITZFEB. 21, 2018
One hundred Marjory Stoneman Douglas students traveled to Tallahassee to advocate for gun control. Survivors spoke to legislators while supporters protested across the country.TALLAHASSEE — The morning began with optimism. It did not last long.On Wednesday, students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland awoke to an overcast sky. They had slept on green cots in the Tallahassee civic center, and it had been a long, cold night. Some agreed that their blankets had smelled strangely like bacon. Many had been up past 3 a.m., researching lawmakers and editing speeches. They had runny eggs, home fries — and bacon — for breakfast.Then, a week after a shooting rampage killed 17 at their high school, the students headed for the capitol, marching together up a hill, past a statue of leaping dolphins. They had come to urge lawmakers to impose new restrictions on guns, including a ban on the sale of military-style firearms like the AR-15 used in the rampage at their school. A former student, Nikolas Cruz, has been charged in the slayings.As the students walked to the capitol, Rosio Briones, 17, was quiet. I dont know how to put my thoughts into words, she said. This still feels so surreal to me.But another student, Olivia Feller, 16, stood with Anthony Lopez, 16, and ran through a list of state legislators: who supported what, who they might be able to sway. We are ready, she said. Sleep deprived but ready.AdvertisementOutside the capitol, Senator Aaron Bean, a Republican, was rushing into the building.How did he feel about the student visit? a reporter asked.AdvertisementAngst, he said. I just — there is so much emotion. Im really really sad. Its a very sad situation. Kids shouldnt have to worry about that. Its already tough enough being a teenager, without worrying about things like that.Did he plan to vote in favor of any bills that would do anything about that?You know, I think its too early to say.Why?Its just too early to say.Inside, the students divided into groups of 10. Senator Lauren Book, a Democrat, had helped the students arrange meetings with lawmakers in both parties, and the groups were supposed to meet with some 70 elected officials.Group Six crammed into the elevator with two parent chaperones. They met with Representative Patricia H. Williams, a Democrat, and Senator Debbie Mayfield, a Republican. Ms. Mayfield said that changes were needed, perhaps including raising the minimum age to buy powerful weapons, but she rebuffed criticism from a student, Daniel Bishop, 16, that such a change would not actually prevent deaths.We cant stop crazies, she told the group.Afterward, Amanda De La Cruz, 16, looked distraught. I want the ban on semiautomatic weapons, she said. I dont care about the crazies.Then they headed to the House floor, where the powerful speaker of the House, Richard Corcoran, a Republican, had agreed to take their questions.Standing at the front of the chamber, he promised to unveil what he said would be the most sweeping gun reform package in the nations history by Thursday or Friday.AdvertisementThen a 16-year-old student named Alondra Gittelson raised her hand.I just want to know why such a destructive gun is accessible to the public — why that gun, the AR-15, that did so much damage, how is an individual in society able to acquire such a gun?Mr. Corcoran responded that he would not be in favor of banning weapons like the one used in the attack on the students.I think that if you look, its widely used in multiple different hunting scenarios, he said. I know people who go out and theyll do boar hunts and theyll use them.He continued: You can disagree, but what I tell my kids — and being in elected office, you have to be very, very, very careful how much authority and power you bring to government. The greatest atrocities known to mankind have been committed by governments.I understand your question, he added. And well look at it, but Ill just be honest with you: Me personally I dont believe thats the solution.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Afterward, Ms. Gittelson observed that Mr. Corcoran had said exactly what her stepfather had predicted he would say.Around noon, hundreds of people converged on the capitol in support of the Stoneman Douglas students. Then, in the afternoon, the tone inside the capitol changed, as protesters flooded the building.The morning had been filled with impassioned but respectful conversation between the Stoneman Douglas students and lawmakers. But as the day wore on, college students and others packed the hallways carrying signs and boxes of petitions.On one floor, they crowded the doorway of the office of Gov. Rick Scott, shouting Shame! Shame! Shame! On an upper floor, they gathered outside Mr. Corcorans office: Face us down! Face us down! Face us down!AdvertisementAs the students pressed lawmakers in Tallahassee, cries for stricter gun control measures swelled on sidewalks and football fields around the country.Back in South Florida, students formed an enormous heart on an athletic field at Coral Springs High School and then walked to Stoneman Douglas High School, about five miles away, where more than 1,000 students gathered.Seventeen lives are more important than gun rights, said Christopher Lormeus, 18, who had walked from Coconut Creek High School, six miles away.Near Tampa, thousands of students left their classrooms and stood silently for 17 minutes, according to The Tampa Bay Times.The protests stretched far beyond Florida. In Montgomery County, Md., students left their high schools, walked to the Metro, and rallied in front of the Capitol, holding signs with slogans like, Protect kids not guns.They walked out of Simon Kenton High School in Kentucky, according to the Enquirer, chanting never again, and filed out of Mesa High School in Arizona, hoping to support the Parkland students. This is our mark in history, one student said, to whoops and cheers.But at Needville High School, about an hour outside Houston, administrators threatened any student who protested during school hours with a three-day suspension.Life is all about choices and every choice has a consequence whether it be positive or negative, Curtis Rhodes, the superintendent, said in a statement posted on Facebook. We will discipline no matter if it is one, 50, or 500 students involved.Jess Bidgood contributed reporting from Boston and Neil Reisner from Parkland, Fla.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Tech Were Using By                     
THE NEW YORK TIMES

FEB. 21, 2018
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Natasha Singer, a technology reporter for The Times in New York, discussed the tech shes using.You report on digital privacy, health and education technology. What are your most important tools for doing your job? Were living in a surveillance economy where sites and apps can track and categorize our every online move. In that ecosystem, encrypted communication services have become some of my most important reporting tools.For people who would rather not reach me through my corporate Gmail account at The Times, I use ProtonMail, an encrypted email service. I also use Signal, an encrypted text messaging and calling service. And I do some online research through Tor, a browser that masks your online address so sites cant track your physical location. I also use DuckDuckGo, a search engine that doesnt store your search history.AdvertisementMy wariness of tracking developed when I was a cub reporter in Moscow. On one of my first stories there, I invited a Russian legislator, who was a democracy advocate, to lunch at a restaurant near the Kremlin. She arrived and immediately started combing through a vase of flowers on the table, checking for government listening devices. After that, I often interviewed Russian democracy activists during walks in local parks and forests.AdvertisementIt made an impression on me that even the mere idea of being surveilled can chill peoples behavior.Now I view privacy not so much as the ability to keep your personal details away from prying government agencies or companies. Privacy is the right to choose which entities access information about you, control how those entities use your data, check the fairness of data-based decisions made about you, and correct errors.Since American consumers currently lack those kinds of rights over most of their data, Ive grown fond of tools that lift the hood on online tracking and profiling.One tool I use on my laptop is Disconnect, a service that shows you the third parties tracking you on every site. When I was reading articles this morning about the Trump administration, Disconnect counted 78 advertising networks, analytics services and others tracking me on HuffPost; 24 trackers on The New York Times site, and 19 on The Washington Post.What could be better about some of these tools?ProtonMail can be cumbersome. The service encrypts your emails before they reach the ProtonMail server. As a result, you cant search the texts of your emails for keywords if you use the free service. You can search only the subject lines.Its a constant reminder that ceding to online surveillance is much more frictionless than trying to limit it. Recently Apple investors raised concerns about smartphone addiction and children. Is this a problem and are there adequate solutions?AdvertisementIve heard from many parents, including a few physicians, concerned about the amount of time their kids are spending online at school and at home. Its so difficult to find the right balance between making sure our children are fluent with online tools and protecting them from getting sucked in by habit-forming video platforms and social networks. Many parents feel they are up against a powerful, interlocking ecosystem, designed to hook their kids on constant scrolling, watching, and clicking.Given the vast ecosystem, however, singling out Apple as the culprit seems to me a little bit like blaming only soda can manufacturers for Americans addiction to sugary beverages. Yes, it would be terrific if Apple introduced new control options for parents. But if shareholders want to fault companies for manipulating or addicting users, they should also be taking a hard look at Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, Netflix and many more.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Even small user-interface changes could make a big difference. Imagine if the default setting for streaming video services wasnt autoplay.On a larger level, weve seen over the past year how some Big Tech companies initially refused to take responsibility for the spread of fake news and other side effects of their innovations. In that context, platforms that nudge children and adults to stay online are merely one symptom of a much bigger problem.You wrote a series last year examining tech industry influence in American public schools. Now youre looking into Silicon Valleys increasing footprint in the health sector. What are the similarities and differences?Theres huge hype around the idea that tech can improve education. Same goes for health.So far, however, theres not much rigorous evidence that learning apps on their own improve students educational results. Likewise, there is little hard evidence that health apps by themselves reduce disease.Still, Im optimistic about the potential for software in health.Thats partly because a few tech companies are participating in rigorous studies, called randomized controlled trials. In these studies, researchers randomly select some volunteers to try a new intervention. By comparing the results in the treated and untreated groups, researchers could identify apps that do make significant health contributions.Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with in your daily life? Every weekend, I try out a new recipe from NYT Cooking. And while Im cooking, I listen to podcasts.Im currently devouring Uncivil, a history podcast on the Civil War. It unfolds like a detective story. And while youre engrossed in the plot twists, it neatly obliterates the standard American narrative of the Civil War.AdvertisementRight now, my family is on a bit of a Brit TV binge. We just watched the second season of The Crown, the fictional series on Queen Elizabeth II, and The Coronation, a glowing documentary featuring the real QE2. And we raced through Prime Suspect: Tennison, the prequel to the classic TV police procedural that starred Helen Mirren.I also just took an audio boot camp course at Columbia University School of Journalism. Now Im teaching myself to use Hindenburg, a radio editing program.Are you doing anything unusual to limit the spread of your data?It may seem quaint, but I still relish the idea that people in a democratic society have the right to be anonymous in public. I think Americans should be able to attend political protests or drive to the grocery store in our pajamas without being recognized by government agencies or companies.The recent proliferation of face recognition software, however, poses huge risks to public anonymity. In simple terms, face recognition software works by scanning a photo of your face and then converting your facial topography into a unique code, called a face print. The benefit — as well as the hazard — is that a company that takes a face print from one photo of you could potentially use it to identify you in any other photo or video frame.I may be particularly attuned to the fragility of public anonymity because, like many journalists, Ive been doxed.So, as an experiment, Ive been limiting photos of myself online to see whether I have any control over how they spread. As a kind of inside joke, my Twitter avatar is an illustration that Minh Uong, the art director in the Timess Business section, created for an article I once wrote about the risks of facial recognition.Follow Natasha Singer on Twitter: @natashanytA version of this article appears in print on February 22, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Limiting Influence of Tech While Reporting on It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ISABEL KERSHNER and DAVID M. HALBFINGERFEB. 21, 2018
JERUSALEM — One of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahus closest and longest-serving aides appeared ready to incriminate him on Wednesday after agreeing overnight to become a government witness, the latest twist in a spiraling graft scandal that seemed to dim Mr. Netanyahus legal and political chances of survival almost by the hour.The fast-moving police inquiry into whether Mr. Netanyahu, already battling separate bribery allegations, had provided official favors to Israels largest telecommunications company, Bezeq, in exchange for fawning coverage on the companys online news site prompted one member of the prime ministers party to ask him to step aside and opposition politicians to call for early elections.Mr. Netanyahu, who insists he has done nothing wrong, has faced corruption allegations periodically almost since first becoming prime minister in 1996. But the latest — with its suggestion of political payoffs to a company that bills ordinary Israeli voters every month — could prove the most damning. And as the revelations mounted, one on top of another like a tottering tower, Israelis expressed increasing doubt about Mr. Netanyahus ability to maintain his grip on power.It was like watching a police car chase in pursuit of a robber on one of Americas endless highways, Sima Kadmon, a columnist, wrote in Wednesdays Yedioth Ahronoth of the flurry of events of the day before. Riveting hours of dramatic and fateful revelations that are going to change not only the life of the man behind the wheel, but the face of our country.AdvertisementThe new states witness, Shlomo Filber — who goes by Momo — was director general of the Communications Ministry from 2015 until 2017, answering directly to Mr. Netanyahu, who at the time also held the portfolio of communications minister. The ministry ruled or weighed in on a number of key regulatory decisions that provided enormous financial benefits to Bezeq and its controlling shareholder, Shaul Elovitch.AdvertisementMr. Filber, who was suspended from his post a few months ago as regulators from the Israel Securities Authority closed in, was arrested this week along with a number of other high-profile friends and confidants of Mr. Netanyahu, including Mr. Elovitch, members of his family and other senior Bezeq executives.Mr. Filbers testimony promised to connect the two main arms of the Bezeq affair: the Communications Ministrys dealings with the company and the decisions taken by editors at Walla, its online news subsidiary, according to a person with intimate knowledge of the inquiry who was not authorized to speak about it publicly. In exchange, prosecutors agreed not to seek a prison sentence for Mr. Filber.Such states witness agreements in Israel usually involve a criminal suspect giving up a bigger fish. Mr. Filbers direct superior was Mr. Netanyahu.Mr. Filber was expected to tell the police that in his role at the ministry he was carrying out explicit and detailed instructions from Mr. Netanyahu, according to Israels Channel 2 evening News program, and that he came to realize he was being exploited.Through a spokesman, Mr. Netanyahu responded, It never happened.The main question is, what does he know? said Oren Gazal-Ayal, dean of the University of Haifa law faculty and a criminal-law specialist. According to suspicion, Filber was the one offering Bezeq all the benefits. He changed the policies of the government from the minute he became director-general of the ministry. If Netanyahu changed the regulations to get good coverage, and you can prove that, thats definitely a criminal offense.In his first response to Mr. Filbers agreement with prosecutors, Mr. Netanyahu projected bravado. He posted part of a biblical verse, Exodus 1:12, on his Facebook page — But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied and spread — referring to the Egyptians dread of the enslaved Israelites gaining strength. With it, he included a chart from a survey by his own pollster, Geocartography, showing a spike in support for his conservative Likud Party.The cases involving Mr. Netanyahu or his close associates have been piling up at a dizzying pace. Along with the developments in the Bezeq matter, which the police call Case 4000, were new suggestions that another of Mr. Netanyahus aides tried to bribe a judge to quash a criminal case involving his wife.AdvertisementMr. Netanyahu has described both sets of allegations as baseless and delusional and has not yet been named a suspect or called for questioning in either case.But he is already deeply embroiled in two other corruption cases. One, known as Case 1000, involves accusations of illicit gifts for favors. In the other, Case 2000, he is accused of back-room dealing with the publisher of Yedioth Ahronoth, a major Israeli newspaper, also for more favorable coverage. The police recommended last week that Mr. Netanyahu be prosecuted on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust. Mr. Netanyahu denies any wrongdoing.Any actual indictment may be months away, pending a hearing with Mr. Netanyahus lawyers and a decision by the attorney general.Adding to the prime ministers woes, however, Mr. Filber is not the first former ally to have turned against Mr. Netanyahu. Many analysts predicted as early as August that Mr. Netanyahu was doomed after the police signed a states witness deal with Ari Harow, his former chief of staff and once one of his closest confidants, in Cases 1000 and 2000.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.By Wednesday morning, the first hairline crack in Mr. Netanyahus coalition had become visible, as a fellow member of Likud, Oren Hazan, called on Mr. Netanyahu to step aside. It was unclear whether other lawmakers would follow: Mr. Hazan is better known for headline-grabbing stunts than for influencing his colleagues.Mr. Filber, on the other hand, is a consummate political insider. He has worked for Likud since the mid-1990s and ran the partys election campaign in 2015.His decision to become a government witness was treated as a bombshell: Yedioth Ahronoths front page screamed, Earthquake.Filber is the closest and most intimate covert operations officer that Netanyahu has had in generations, the Israeli journalist Ben Caspit, author of a recent biography, The Netanyahu Years, wrote in Maariv. As early the 1990s he was the secret researcher deployed by the campaign for all tasks that were best kept under wraps. Always in the shadows, always loyal, efficient, secretive and ideological, Bibi knew that he could count on Momo.Mr. Filbers lawyers, Dror Arad-Ayalon and Yovel Nachmani, did not immediately comment after news broke of his deal with prosecutors. Nor did the police or Justice Ministry immediately put out any announcement detailing the arrangement.AdvertisementMr. Filber, 54, who has described himself as a strategic and business consultant, sits on the board of the state-owned Israel Military Industries and served from 2003 to 2009 as the board secretary of the state-owned Israel Railways and as its assets and business development manager.Before that, he headed Mr. Netanyahus headquarters in years when Mr. Netanyahu was both in and out of office. From 1996 until 2001, he held leadership positions in the Yesha Council, the umbrella organization representing Israeli settlers in the West Bank and, at the time, in Gaza.The son of a rabbi, Yaakov Filber, who was a leader in the religious Zionist movement and the founder of a yeshiva and research center, Mr. Filber lived in the West Bank settlement of Psagot before moving to the central city of Petah Tikva, east of Tel Aviv.For all his years with Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Filber appears to go back even further with the head of the Israeli police, Roni Alsheich, who has overseen the sprawling corruption investigations.In a Twitter post congratulating Mr. Alsheich on his appointment as commissioner in September 2015, Mr. Filber referred to their paths having crossed over three decades, in a religious seminary, in the army and in the settlements of the West Bank.Good luck Roni Alsheich, Mr. Filber wrote. Theres nobody more suited than him. We have known each other for 30 years — from the benches of Merkaz Harav, paratrooper battles in west Beirut, settlement in Binyamin and until today.Irit Pazner Garshowitz contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Netanyahu Case Builds as a Top Aide Turns Witness.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Right at Home By                     
 RONDA KAYSEN
 
FEB. 16, 2018

CreditBrad Dickson for The New York Times        How hard could it be to replace a 90-year-old toilet? It seemed like something a plumber could handle, maybe even the one standing in my bathroom in 2013, telling me that a crack in my tank meant mine was toast.No problem, I thought, Ill just swap it out.And this is when I learned rule number one for owners of old houses: Never utter the phrase just swap it out.I will not belabor the details of early 20th-century plumbing, but trust me when I say that if I had simply replaced my commode, a new model would have been perched roughly half a foot from the wall. To get to the shower, I would have had to climb over the new fixture.The solution? Rip up the original tile floor and move the plumbing. Other problems would have followed: The mint-colored wall tiles would have likely been damaged and needed replacement, too. I might have had to open the kitchen ceiling to access the pipes above. In other words, to replace the toilet, I would have had to gut my vintage 1924 bathroom to the tune of $25,000.AdvertisementAnd this, my friends, is how I found myself on a website called ThisOldToilet, which sells, as you might have gathered, old toilets. Lids and seats are their specialty, but I scored a tank in my size and model, although not in the same off-whitish hue. A two-toned look was not my first choice for bathroom décor, but one day Ill get around to reglazing the bowl and pedestal sink, a task Ive been told is doable.AdvertisementOwning an old home when you dont really know what youre doing means you might bond with fellow homeowners on Facebook groups like Montclair Rehabers: Group Therapy for Old Houses + Clueless Owners. (This really is a group, and I really am a member.)Yes, some people grow up with a sledgehammer in hand, and perhaps those are the ones posting photo brags of their impeccably restored Tudors on more established Facebook groups like Our Old House. But for those of us who were more likely to call the super whenever the faucet in our apartment dripped, homeownership can come as a shock.Buy a newer house and, for the most part, replacement parts are available at your local Home Depot. Not so with an old home that still has its original charm. Plumbing ages, for example, and can crumble when you try to replace a fixture. Champions of older homes will tell you that the structures were built with high-quality materials meant to last, and that is certainly true. But when something does reach the end of its life — like a decades-old crystal doorknob that falls off in your hand — youll spend days surfing eBay looking for a replacement, because nothing like it exists on Wayfair.Were just a bunch of stupid city dwellers thinking, Oh, no big deal! Im going to buy a 150-year-old house and fix it, said Stella Gilgur-Cook, who started the Montclair Rehabers group in December after she discovered that repairing the grand staircase of her Victorian-ish four-bedroom in Montclair, N.J., was actually a big deal.Mrs. Gilgur-Cook, 41, a health care administrator, and her husband, Josh Cook, 41, who works in video and film production, moved with their two children from a rental in Forest Hills, Queens, last August. The couple did not set out to buy a fixer-upper, but ended up with a house that needed some work. (Dont they all?)As their first project, they wanted to remove carpeting from the staircase and sand off layers of old paint. But carpet has a way of hiding secrets, and removing theirs revealed serious damage to the top steps. You could put your hand between where the step ended and the next riser started, Mrs. Gilgur-Cook said. We freaked out.Thats when they decided to call a professional, and promptly learned rule number two of homeownership: Good luck finding one. (Especially one who knows how to restore, not just replace, parts in an old house.)AdvertisementA good man is hard to find, said Mary Kate Spach, a member of the board of directors of Pasadena Heritage, a preservationist group in Pasadena, Calif. A good contractor is even harder to find.Mrs. Gilgur-Cook interviewed a whole parade of people. Some said they could do the work, but then never came back. Others insisted the whole structure had to be ripped out and replaced. She hired one contractor, but the crew quit after sanding the first step. Finally, she found a company that specialized in old staircases and, for $8,000, fixed hers.Old houses woo you with character. Step into a center-hall colonial, and you swoon over crown molding and carved woodwork. But it is the antique kitchen or bathroom that is the real conversation piece. (You think my toilet is funky; I havent even told you about my shimmery bathroom wallpaper, a rather bold update made by the previous owners. As I have no idea what lurks behind that sturdy paper, I have resisted removing it and bringing the bathroom back to its original state. Besides, the bling has kind of grown on me.)Houses with authentic parlors are a dime a dozen, said Ken Roginski, who writes OldHouseGuy, a blog that laments the prevalence of vinyl siding and other ill-advised updates. But if you could have an authentic kitchen or bathroom, its a museum piece.Mr. Roginski also works as a consultant to homeowners, chastising the ones who have succumbed to the lure of newness and replaced their rattling wood windows with silently sliding, but charmless, double-paned ones, and advising others on how to avoid such a fate.Wondering what to do about your shabby shutters? Read the Old House Guys exhaustive treatise on the subject, prefaced with an ominous warning: What one thinks is a simple mistake will destroy a homes curb appeal. Dont let this happen to you!When youre done, youll either roll up your sleeves and get to work, or need a Xanax.Which brings us to rule number three: Do It Yourself is harder than it looks.Sure, Nicole Curtis can scale a ladder and bring an ornate gable roof back to its original glory in 30 minutes flat on the DIY Network show Rehab Addict, but try that project with your better half on a Saturday afternoon and you may discover that youre lacking in this particular life skill. Or, as Mrs. Gilgur-Cook put it, You suddenly realize all the adult things you dont know how to do.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Call in the pros and chances are they will tell you to toss, not fix, your old stuff. Theres this phenomenon in the recent world where people dont try to fix it, said Gary Tjader, owner of ThisOldToilet, which is based in Los Altos, Calif.AdvertisementOf course, you could always learn how to be handy. Kelly Hobby-Bishop had never done home improvement until 2010, when she moved in with her soon-to-be husband, Sean Bishop, who owned a 1911 Craftsman-style house in Pasadena, Calif., with original built-in cabinetry and a very long to-do list of repairs. Lets say this, we were the ugliest house on the block, Ms. Hobby-Bishop, 36, a storyboard artist, said of the five-bedroom bungalow.But she and Mr. Bishop, 46, also a storyboard artist, set out to restore the house to its once-respectable state on a $100,000 budget. Rather than hire a general contractor, Ms. Hobby-Bishop oversaw the work and relied on a skilled handyman, Manuel Chavez, for many tasks. Hes my renovation guru, she said.Ms. Hobby-Bishop devotes hours to tasks like sourcing old-growth wood to match the existing wood, or arguing with window installers over how to replace a 100-year-old pane of broken glass so it has the same seasoned look as the other panes. You have to fight for the character, she said.If your house is old enough — built, say, before the American Revolution — character is unavoidable. Nothing is square, nothing is even, no window is the same size, said Lindsay DiGiacomo, 35, whose 1756 Mendham Township, N.J., four-bedroom home still has its original windows. Forget sash pulleys; hers are held open with wooden pegs.The house, which Mrs. DiGiacomo owns with her husband, Brian DiGiacomo, 43, a lawyer, has three fireplaces, one with a built-in bread oven and a caldron to boil water. Its so Little House on the Prairie, she said. If you go into my attic, the beams that hold up the ceiling are a legitimate tree with bark still on it.The couples two young sons like to drop bits of treasure into the cracks between the wide, unfinished plank floors. With a flashlight, the DiGiacomos can spot other artifacts beneath the floorboards, perhaps deposited by other children decades ago.Mrs. DiGiacomo has uncovered her own treasures, including a tackle box stored in the attic that held letters, some written in the late 18th century by two brothers named, oddly enough, Will and Bill; a 19th-century receipt for a horse carriage; an election ballot from 1880; and guidelines for how to operate a distillery, once part of the now three-acre property.Modern conveniences like recessed lighting or an open floor plan are not options in a house this old. Everything that you do, you have to think about — and really, really think about it, Mrs. DiGiacomo said. Will this work for this space? Whats behind this wall?AdvertisementWhen the 60-year-old wood-shake roof needed to be replaced, Mrs. DiGiacomo had to hunt down a supplier in Canada who could make the shingles and then try to find someone who knew how to handle such a project. Im kind of a research-aholic, she said.Spend enough time trying to figure out what is behind a wall, and eventually you get good at it, even if you didnt think you ever would. Or at least, that is what I have been told.In 2009, Jennifer Wroblewski, an artist, moved from Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, with her husband, Dave Diomedi, 47, a television director, to a six-bedroom Victorian house in Montclair. Once a boardinghouse, the 1903 home needed so much work that the inspector told them to walk away.We had no idea what we were getting into, said Ms. Wroblewski, 44. The roof, foundation and fireplace all needed repairs. We thought the work would be a chore, but that it would be worth it in the long run.Instead, Ms. Wroblewski discovered that she actually liked the process. The turning point came, she said, when the couple removed salmon-covered asbestos shingles from the exterior, revealing gorgeous Victorian cedar shingles beneath. It looked like a dollhouse, Ms. Wroblewski said. It was a magnificent thing.After that, they were hooked. When you realize that with the right people you can bring a house back to life and back to its stately place in the town, it feels like a good use of my energy, she said. It also helps that she found a good contractor.In 2016, the couple moved with their two children to a six-bedroom, 6,000-square-foot house built in 1894 on Upper Mountain Avenue, a grand road of stately homes in Montclair. The house, Ms. Wroblewski said, is untouched by the passage of time.Time did, however, leave its mark on the boiler and air-conditioning system — neither worked when the family moved into the $1.289 million home. A structural beam also needed immediate attention. But where an unseasoned homeowner might be visited by a panic attack, Ms. Wroblewski sees a project. I never thought I was this person, she said.As for me, Im still not convinced Im that person.For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page RE1 of the New York edition with the headline: Old House, Big Chore.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JULIE TURKEWITZ and VIVIAN YEEFEB. 20, 2018
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Instead of 10th-grade English and 12th-grade calculus, the teenagers from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., had another funeral to attend. When the grim ceremony was over on Tuesday morning, they hugged their parents goodbye, stashed their backpacks in the bellies of three buses and set off in grief and hope to demand gun control measures from state lawmakers more than 400 miles away.As they were getting on the road, the lawmakers in Tallahassee swiftly rejected an effort to debate an assault weapons ban in a party-line vote that said much about how far apart most Democrats and Republicans are when it comes to guns. In the balcony, some Parkland students who had already made it to the Capitol could be seen crying, hands smothering mouths.It was an early reminder that failure might very well become familiar for these latest, youngest gun control activists, as it has for so many others. Republican lawmakers plan to consider more modest proposals, including raising the minimum age to buy assault rifles, before the session ends in March. Yet a kind of optimism — or maybe just an inability not to believe in their own power — was in the humid air.This shooting is different from the other ones, said Daniel Bishop, 16, who sat side-by-side with his sister on the second bus. Sandy Hook, they were elementary school kids who couldnt stand up for themselves. Virginia Tech was 2007, a different time. But this one, I just have a gut feeling — something is going to change.There was little to suggest yet that anything would. But in Battle Creek, Mich., in Bakersfield, Calif., in Toms River, N.J., in Iowa City, and all over South Florida, the flickers of underage protest this week seemed to augur something new: a coast-to-coast challenge to the idea that the Snapchat generation was too young, too frivolous, for politics.AdvertisementWe definitely have a moral obligation to do something, considering that so many innocent people that we know passed, said Mr. Bishops sister, Julia Bishop, 18. These adults, these politicians, these lawmakers, these legislators, they were supposed to protect us. And they didnt.AdvertisementMany of the protests around the country have arrived semi-spontaneously, apparently ignited by the impassioned pleas of young Parkland survivors in the hours and days after the shooting last Wednesday. Facebook and Twitter have amplified attendance; Snapchat and Instagram have documented the marches, signs and chants.Some on the left were hopeful that the unsullied voices of teenagers, cutting through the usual tussle over whether gun control advocates were politicizing a tragedy, would move previously unbudgeable lawmakers. Still, the students have faced questions from some conservatives over whether they are being exploited by the left. Bill OReilly on Tuesday asked on Twitter, Should the media be promoting opinions by teenagers who are in an emotional state and facing extreme peer pressure in some cases?In another sign of the deep entrenchment of guns, Bloomberg reported on Tuesday that a state pension plan for Florida teachers held more than $500,000 in shares in the company that manufactured the semiautomatic AR-15 assault rifle that was used in the attack in Parkland.For now, however, there is momentum. From South Florida to Bellingham, Wash., local walkouts were proliferating. A national event has been planned for March 14, the one-month anniversary of the Parkland shooting, when students and teachers plan to leave class for 17 minutes, one minute for each victim. On March 24, students will protest in Washington at an event organized by March for Our Lives, the group formed by Parkland survivors, which has received hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations from celebrities. Another mass walkout is scheduled for April 20, when students will commemorate the 19th year since the Columbine High School shooting in 1999.The organizers of last years Womens March are directing the March 14 walkout. Mostly, though, the adults have gotten out of the way.On Tuesday morning, hundreds of students from West Boca Raton High School in South Florida walked out of class and onto the roads, bound for Stoneman Douglas High, in a march that took Broward County officials by surprise. The authorities abruptly assembled a law enforcement escort for the students, said Todd DeAngelis, a city of Parkland spokesman. They also organized water stations along the way to help students, who walked nearly 11 miles, beat the heat.These kids may look like theyre summer campers, said Paul Corin, whose daughter, Jaclyn, helped organize the Parkland caravan to Tallahassee. But they are fierce warriors.AdvertisementIn Bakersfield, Calif., about a dozen students and 80 adults marched on Presidents Day in support of stricter gun laws. The same day, more than 200 students in Iowa City marched out of school, walked to the Old Capitol downtown and gathered to read the names of the Parkland victims.The N.R.A. has got to go, they chanted. Not one more, they chanted.At this point, youre either with us or against us, said Lujayn Hamad, a senior at West High School, according to The Iowa City Press-Citizen. We are dying, and Im not going to stand for it anymore.Some of the students of Toms River, N.J., also spent part of Presidents Day, a school holiday, massed on the steps of the squat, red brick public library. A young man who described himself as a 16-year-old junior led the crowd in chants of, Enough is enough! Enough is enough!Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This is what its come to, he said. In this country, kids are typically expected to take a back seat to what goes on in politics and policy, and whats going on right now — it cant happen like that any longer.Accusing Congress and state legislators of inaction, he advocated stronger gun restrictions. The other option, he said, was turning schools into armed camps where I have to be aware if theres a loud bang in the school, do I know where to go?The adults who have the responsibility to take care of these things have failed, he said. Its our generations responsibility.On Tuesday, at least 20 students walked out of Harper Creek High School in Battle Creek, Mich. The principal stood with them, and the districts superintendent was on hand.Students left class or held gatherings all over South Florida on Monday and Tuesday. There was American Heritage School in Plantation. Olympic Heights High School in suburban Boca Raton. Park Vista Community High School in Lake Worth. Fort Lauderdale High School in Fort Lauderdale. McArthur High School in Hollywood.At South Broward High School, students aimed to participate in a protest almost every day to make their point.AdvertisementThey started with a protest at their school in Hollywood last Friday, and then rallied in Fort Lauderdale on Saturday and at Hollywood City Hall on Monday, said Rachel Donly, a 16-year-old sophomore.We dont think anyone is truly listening to us yet, said Ms. Donly, whose father is a teacher. So we dont want to give up. Were just going to keep fighting.On the Parkland buses, pillows and sleeping bags had been mushed into the seats. Candy and doughnuts were passed from row to row. Laughter occasionally poked through. But the people the students were traveling for — their fallen classmates, coaches, teachers — were never far from their minds.Anthony Lopez, 16, a junior, was sitting alone in the back. He had scratched out a wish list he planned to deliver to lawmakers.Ban on military grade weapons (assault weapons, etc.) he had written.Universal background check, stricter, he had added.Raise age for gun ownership (20+), unless for sport or hunting (16+).Then the news arrived that the Florida House had refused even to consider a ban on assault weapons. How could lawmakers ignore the activism that had lit up social media, the students wondered.They know that multiple kids, hundreds of kids, are coming up to the state Capitol, which by the way is extremely far, just to talk to them, Mr. Bishop said.In the back, Mr. Lopez slammed his head back on the bus seat. He placed a hand on his forehead.Thats infuriating, he said. Theyre acting inhuman.Julie Turkewitz reported from Tallahassee, Fla., and Vivian Yee from New York. Anemona Hartocollis contributed reporting from New York, and Alan Blinder from Parkland, Fla.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Gut Feeling Something Is Going to Change.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARK LANDLER and MICHAEL D. SHEARFEB. 16, 2018
WASHINGTON — He brushed it off as a hoax. He mused that it might be China, or a guy from New Jersey, or somebody sitting on their bed who weighs 400 pounds. He said President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had assured him it wasnt true. And, he added, I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it.President Trump has never stopped belittling the charge that Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election. But on Friday, with the indictment of 13 Russians for orchestrating a vast, well-funded operation to interfere in the election, those denials collided with a mountain of evidence arrayed by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.For Mr. Trump, who has tried to discredit Mr. Muellers investigation as a politically motivated witch hunt, it was a direct assault on the version of reality that he has sought tirelessly to create.By laying out a meticulous case for how Russia tried to tip the electoral scales toward Mr. Trump in 2016, Mr. Mueller has made it much harder for the president to dismiss the investigation as mere politics. He may also have made it harder for Mr. Trump to fire Mr. Mueller himself, since, as some Democratic lawmakers argued, that would look like an attempt to help Russia further undermine American democracy.AdvertisementBefore the charges were announced, the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, briefed Mr. Trump and Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, and handed over a copy of the indictment, according to a person briefed on the matter. Mr. Mueller was not present at the briefing.AdvertisementOn Friday afternoon, after Mr. Trump left Washington for his Palm Beach, Fla., estate, the White House issued a defiant statement claiming that the investigation had uncovered no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.
                Thirteen Russian nationals have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process through inflammatory social media posts and organized political rallies.            Its time we stop the outlandish partisan attacks, wild and false allegations, and far-fetched theories, which only serve to further the agendas of bad actors, like Russia, and do nothing to protect the principles of our institutions, the president said in a statement.In a tweet, Mr. Trump played up Mr. Muellers assertion that the Russian operation had begun in 2014, well before he declared his candidacy. The Trump campaign did nothing wrong — no collusion! he wrote.Far from being rattled, Mr. Trump was elated, according to his advisers, because he viewed it as evidence that Mr. Mueller now knows who the malefactors are — and they do not include him or members of his team. (The indictment refers to campaign officials who met or communicated with Russians, but says they were unwitting.)Yet Mr. Trump sidestepped the fact that he has stubbornly denied Russias interference, even after two assessments by the nations intelligence agencies concluded that Russia had meddled. Last November, during a trip to Asia, Mr. Trump said that Mr. Putin had told him that Russia did not meddle, and that he was inclined to believe him.Every time he sees me he says, I didnt do that, and I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it, Mr. Trump said. I think he is very insulted by it, he added, which is not a good thing for our country.Mr. Trump went so far as to suggest that the heads of the intelligence agencies at the time of the 2016 election — John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director; James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence; and James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director — were less trustworthy than Mr. Putin.AdvertisementI mean, give me a break — theyre political hacks, he told reporters. You have Brennan, you have Clapper, and you have Comey. Comeys proven now to be a liar, and hes proven to be a leaker, so you look at that.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, the response on Capitol Hill was resounding — at least concerning the gravity of Russias actions — and it could narrow Mr. Trumps room for maneuver as he tries to limit the political fallout from the investigation.The Russians engaged in a sinister and systematic attack on our political system, the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, said. It was a conspiracy to subvert the process, and take aim at democracy itself.The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, said the indictment was further proof that Vladimir Putin directed a campaign to interfere with our elections, with the goal of tipping the outcome. He called on Mr. Trump to immediately reverse his decision not to impose sanctions against Russia that were recently passed by Congress.Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, argued that any attempts to remove Mr. Mueller or Mr. Rosentein will have to be seen as a direct attempt to aid the Russian government in attacking American democracy.Mr. Trump has not hesitated to put Mr. Muellers future in jeopardy. Last July, he threatened to dismiss the special counsel if his investigation ranged too far afield from Russias campaign meddling. In an interview with The New York Times, he complained that Mr. Muellers office was rife with conflicts of interest and that the investigation had crossed a red line.A month earlier, several officials said, Mr. Trump actually gave an order to fire Mr. Mueller but backed down after Mr. McGahn threatened to resign rather than carry it out.Mr. Trumps strategy for dealing with charges of Russian meddling has not varied much since the campaign: deny, obfuscate, play down and, since Election Day, blame it on Democrats bitter after Hillary Clintons defeat.How do bots and trolls work to infiltrate social media platforms and influence U.S. elections? We take a closer look at these insidious online pests to explain how they work.In May, Mr. Trump told Lester Holt, the NBC News anchor, This Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story. Its an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they shouldve won.AdvertisementIn September, he tweeted that the Russia hoax continues, now its ads on Facebook. What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary? PolitiFact called Mr. Trumps denial of Russian meddling its 2017 Lie of the Year.Since taking office, Mr. Trump has often expressed concern that the charges undermine the legitimacy of his presidency. He has told associates that if he accepts the premise of Russian meddling, it will call into question the idea that he won the election on his own merits.That fear drove many of Mr. Trumps most incendiary tweets and statements throughout his first year in office, especially about the size and breadth of his electoral victory. The day after his inauguration, Mr. Trump ordered his press secretary, Sean Spicer, to insist that his inaugural crowd was the largest in history, which it demonstrably was not.In news conferences, on Twitter and at rallies, he has called the Russia investigation fake news and repeatedly predicted that Mr. Muellers investigation will end without finding much.Mr. Muellers indictment does not settle the overarching question of whether Mr. Trump or any of his campaign associates colluded with Russia. For now, the president has seized on that as evidence of his innocence.But as Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, put it, The indictment leaves open the vital question of whether Americans, including any associated with the Trump campaign, knowingly played a role in Russias active-measures campaign.That seemed a likely avenue of inquiry for an investigation that is casting a lengthening shadow on Mr. Trumps presidency.Maggie Haberman and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reportingGet politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this news analysis appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: A Reality Check for the President Who Cried Hoax.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JULIE TURKEWITZ and VIVIAN YEEFEB. 20, 2018
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Instead of 10th-grade English and 12th-grade calculus, the teenagers from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., had another funeral to attend. When the grim ceremony was over on Tuesday morning, they hugged their parents goodbye, stashed their backpacks in the bellies of three buses and set off in grief and hope to demand gun control measures from state lawmakers more than 400 miles away.As they were getting on the road, the lawmakers in Tallahassee swiftly rejected an effort to debate an assault weapons ban in a party-line vote that said much about how far apart most Democrats and Republicans are when it comes to guns. In the balcony, some Parkland students who had already made it to the Capitol could be seen crying, hands smothering mouths.It was an early reminder that failure might very well become familiar for these latest, youngest gun control activists, as it has for so many others. Republican lawmakers plan to consider more modest proposals, including raising the minimum age to buy assault rifles, before the session ends in March. Yet a kind of optimism — or maybe just an inability not to believe in their own power — was in the humid air.This shooting is different from the other ones, said Daniel Bishop, 16, who sat side-by-side with his sister on the second bus. Sandy Hook, they were elementary school kids who couldnt stand up for themselves. Virginia Tech was 2007, a different time. But this one, I just have a gut feeling — something is going to change.There was little to suggest yet that anything would. But in Battle Creek, Mich., in Bakersfield, Calif., in Toms River, N.J., in Iowa City, and all over South Florida, the flickers of underage protest this week seemed to augur something new: a coast-to-coast challenge to the idea that the Snapchat generation was too young, too frivolous, for politics.AdvertisementWe definitely have a moral obligation to do something, considering that so many innocent people that we know passed, said Mr. Bishops sister, Julia Bishop, 18. These adults, these politicians, these lawmakers, these legislators, they were supposed to protect us. And they didnt.AdvertisementMany of the protests around the country have arrived semi-spontaneously, apparently ignited by the impassioned pleas of young Parkland survivors in the hours and days after the shooting last Wednesday. Facebook and Twitter have amplified attendance; Snapchat and Instagram have documented the marches, signs and chants.Some on the left were hopeful that the unsullied voices of teenagers, cutting through the usual tussle over whether gun control advocates were politicizing a tragedy, would move previously unbudgeable lawmakers. Still, the students have faced questions from some conservatives over whether they are being exploited by the left. Bill OReilly on Tuesday asked on Twitter, Should the media be promoting opinions by teenagers who are in an emotional state and facing extreme peer pressure in some cases?In another sign of the deep entrenchment of guns, Bloomberg reported on Tuesday that a state pension plan for Florida teachers held more than $500,000 in shares in the company that manufactured the semiautomatic AR-15 assault rifle that was used in the attack in Parkland.For now, however, there is momentum. From South Florida to Bellingham, Wash., local walkouts were proliferating. A national event has been planned for March 14, the one-month anniversary of the Parkland shooting, when students and teachers plan to leave class for 17 minutes, one minute for each victim. On March 24, students will protest in Washington at an event organized by March for Our Lives, the group formed by Parkland survivors, which has received hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations from celebrities. Another mass walkout is scheduled for April 20, when students will commemorate the 19th year since the Columbine High School shooting in 1999.The organizers of last years Womens March are directing the March 14 walkout. Mostly, though, the adults have gotten out of the way.On Tuesday morning, hundreds of students from West Boca Raton High School in South Florida walked out of class and onto the roads, bound for Stoneman Douglas High, in a march that took Broward County officials by surprise. The authorities abruptly assembled a law enforcement escort for the students, said Todd DeAngelis, a city of Parkland spokesman. They also organized water stations along the way to help students, who walked nearly 11 miles, beat the heat.These kids may look like theyre summer campers, said Paul Corin, whose daughter, Jaclyn, helped organize the Parkland caravan to Tallahassee. But they are fierce warriors.AdvertisementIn Bakersfield, Calif., about a dozen students and 80 adults marched on Presidents Day in support of stricter gun laws. The same day, more than 200 students in Iowa City marched out of school, walked to the Old Capitol downtown and gathered to read the names of the Parkland victims.The N.R.A. has got to go, they chanted. Not one more, they chanted.At this point, youre either with us or against us, said Lujayn Hamad, a senior at West High School, according to The Iowa City Press-Citizen. We are dying, and Im not going to stand for it anymore.Some of the students of Toms River, N.J., also spent part of Presidents Day, a school holiday, massed on the steps of the squat, red brick public library. A young man who described himself as a 16-year-old junior led the crowd in chants of, Enough is enough! Enough is enough!Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This is what its come to, he said. In this country, kids are typically expected to take a back seat to what goes on in politics and policy, and whats going on right now — it cant happen like that any longer.Accusing Congress and state legislators of inaction, he advocated stronger gun restrictions. The other option, he said, was turning schools into armed camps where I have to be aware if theres a loud bang in the school, do I know where to go?The adults who have the responsibility to take care of these things have failed, he said. Its our generations responsibility.On Tuesday, at least 20 students walked out of Harper Creek High School in Battle Creek, Mich. The principal stood with them, and the districts superintendent was on hand.Students left class or held gatherings all over South Florida on Monday and Tuesday. There was American Heritage School in Plantation. Olympic Heights High School in suburban Boca Raton. Park Vista Community High School in Lake Worth. Fort Lauderdale High School in Fort Lauderdale. McArthur High School in Hollywood.At South Broward High School, students aimed to participate in a protest almost every day to make their point.AdvertisementThey started with a protest at their school in Hollywood last Friday, and then rallied in Fort Lauderdale on Saturday and at Hollywood City Hall on Monday, said Rachel Donly, a 16-year-old sophomore.We dont think anyone is truly listening to us yet, said Ms. Donly, whose father is a teacher. So we dont want to give up. Were just going to keep fighting.On the Parkland buses, pillows and sleeping bags had been mushed into the seats. Candy and doughnuts were passed from row to row. Laughter occasionally poked through. But the people the students were traveling for — their fallen classmates, coaches, teachers — were never far from their minds.Anthony Lopez, 16, a junior, was sitting alone in the back. He had scratched out a wish list he planned to deliver to lawmakers.Ban on military grade weapons (assault weapons, etc.) he had written.Universal background check, stricter, he had added.Raise age for gun ownership (20+), unless for sport or hunting (16+).Then the news arrived that the Florida House had refused even to consider a ban on assault weapons. How could lawmakers ignore the activism that had lit up social media, the students wondered.They know that multiple kids, hundreds of kids, are coming up to the state Capitol, which by the way is extremely far, just to talk to them, Mr. Bishop said.In the back, Mr. Lopez slammed his head back on the bus seat. He placed a hand on his forehead.Thats infuriating, he said. Theyre acting inhuman.Julie Turkewitz reported from Tallahassee, Fla., and Vivian Yee from New York. Anemona Hartocollis contributed reporting from New York, and Alan Blinder from Parkland, Fla.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Gut Feeling Something Is Going to Change.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
California Today By                     
 JENNIFER MEDINA and
 

 MATT STEVENS
 
FEB. 20, 2018
Good morning.The cycle can feel numbingly familiar: mass shooting, followed by politicians offering their thoughts and prayers, followed by others demanding stricter gun laws. So it is hardly a surprise that lawmakers from California responded to the mass shooting at a high school in Florida last week by quickly calling for more gun-control laws.Still, the comments from Senators Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein make the frustration clear.Speaking on MSNBC last week, Ms. Harris described looking at autopsy photos from shootings during her time as a prosecutor, suggesting that perhaps lawmakers should do the same.When you see the effect of this extreme violence on a human body and especially the body of a child, maybe it will shock some people into understanding, she said, adding: We cannot tolerate a society and live in a country with any level of pride when our babies are being slaughtered.Ms. Feinstein has taken to Twitter to renew her call to support an assault weapons ban, which she has co-sponsored with other Democrats.AdvertisementHow long will we accept weapons of war being used to slaughter our children, she wrote the day of the shooting.AdvertisementA generation of students has grown up with active shooter drills as the norm. They are saying enough and I couldnt be more proud, she wrote on Sunday.She also said she would introduce a bill that would require all gun purchases to be limited to those who are at least 21 years old.If you cant buy a handgun or a bottle of beer, you shouldnt be able to buy an AR-15, she said.Those calling for stricter gun laws took to the street over the long weekend too, with hundreds of women with Moms Demand Action protesting in Pershing Square in Los Angeles and a smaller protest in Bakersfield.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• Companies like Twitter have been trying to eliminate automated accounts. And yet, bots sent out hundreds of posts about gun control after the school shooting. [The New York Times]• Top U.S.A. Swimming executives, board members and other officials were aware of sexually predatory coaches for years, but did not take action against them. As a result, hundreds of young victims suffered. [The Orange County Register]Advertisement• It was just before 6 a.m. when officers maneuvered their sport-utility vehicles in front of a Los Angeles apartment building. A look inside an immigration roundup. [The Wall Street Journal]• Even as millions of dollars flow in from two ballot measures, Los Angeles Countys homeless problem is getting worse. [The Los Angeles Times]• Utility officials say preventing power-line wildfires will be costly. Should rural customers who live in high-risk areas have to pay more? [San Francisco Chronicle]• When prosecutors charged 13 Russians and three companies with executing a scheme to commit election fraud, they singled out Facebook, saying Russians repeatedly used the platform to sow discord in the United States. [The New York Times]• A growing number of tech companies are their putting research labs and other engineers close to wherever the boss sits. Its because what theyre doing really matters. [The New York Times]• The rich have always feared robbery and extortion. Now, big holders of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies have become alluring targets for criminals. [The New York Times]• The director of Black Panther, Ryan Coogler, is an Oakland native. But theres another connection to consider: The city is also the birthplace of the Black Panther Party. [KQED]• The film smashed box office records over the weekend. [The New York Times]• At the N.B.A. All-Star Game in Los Angeles, you could see that the players actually cared — and thats a sign of progress. [The New York Times]Advertisement• The Padres have signed Eric Hosmer to an eight-year, $144 million contract. He was widely believed to be the prize of this free-agent class. [The New York Times]• Liz Swaney, a Berkeley alum from Oakland, had some, uh, puzzlingly pedestrian runs at the Olympics. So howd she qualify? [The Mercury News]• In a place as manic and transient as Los Angeles can sometimes be, where you shop for groceries may be more important than you think. Simply mastering your neighborhood Ralphs can help you feel connected to a place. [Los Angeles Magazine]Are you still obsessing over Cronuts? Or cruffins, perhaps? Those are so 2013.Behold, instead, the latest Instagram-ready food mash-up: the Tacro — a croissant-taco hybrid available at Vive La Tartes Ferry Building kiosk in San Francisco.It started as a fun internal project, Arnaud Goethals, the co-owner of Vive La Tarte said in an email. We challenged our team to create a savory croissant to pair with their favorite flavors. After several weeks and many variations, the Tacro was born.Mr. Goethals did not respond directly to a question about whether the cruffin and Cronut inspired his teams Tacro. But he did note that there are three varieties: pulled pork and pineapple; Chile chicken and avocado; and B.B.Q. jackfruit. A breakfast Tacro, Mr. Goethals said, is also on the way.Tacros are available from 11 a.m. on, but be warned: Mr. Goethals said they usually sell out by 2 p.m.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BEN SISARIOFEB. 18, 2018
Of all the realms of media that have been shaken by the #MeToo movement, perhaps the most surprising has been public radio, the home of virtuous journalism and thoughtful, warm-voiced commentary.Like Fox News, Vice Media and NBC News, the tweedy world of public broadcasting — a complex ecosystem of local stations and national syndicators, with NPR at the center — has seen some of its most popular figures fall in recent months, including Garrison Keillor, Leonard Lopate, Jonathan Schwartz and John Hockenberry.The reckoning is not over. On Wednesday, WBUR in Boston said it had fired Tom Ashbrook, the host of On Point, a call-in show heard on 290 stations, after an investigation found that he had created an abusive work environment.As a result, station schedules around the country have been remade, and listeners have gotten a glimpse at the sometimes startling working conditions that are not picked up by the microphone on their favorite shows. According to accusations by these organizations, and reporting by some of their journalists, this includes a range of behavior from inappropriate comments to unwanted kissing and touching.AdvertisementJournalists at Minnesota Public Radio, for example, reported that Mr. Keillor had a yearslong pattern of behavior that included workplace bullying and, in one instance, publicly posting an off-color limerick at a bookstore he owns about a woman who worked there.AdvertisementThese revelations may pose risks to the all-important bond that public media organizations form with their listeners, whom they also rely on for financial contributions. The stations already face the aging of their audiences, rising pressure from podcasts and streaming outlets, and a renewed proposal by the Trump administration to cut all federal funding for public broadcasting.The relationships that people have with the presenters and reporters on NPR feels very personal, said Vivian Schiller, a former chief executive of NPR who has also held senior positions at Twitter, The New York Times and elsewhere.People make assumptions about who these people are based on their voice and what feels like an intimate, one-on-one relationship, Ms. Schiller added, so the potential for backlash is that much greater if you feel that you have been betrayed.Conservative media has taken notice as well. After accusations of harassment were made against Mr. Hockenberry, the host of The Takeaway on WNYC, in December — months after he quietly left the station, which had decided not to renew his contract — Breitbart crowed: These are our elites. These are our left-wing arbiters of taste and truth. And we the taxpayers are subsidizing all of it.The list of men now gone from public broadcasting after being accused of harassment also includes Michael Oreskes, a former editor at The Times who was NPRs top news executive; David Sweeney, NPRs chief news editor; Daniel Zwerdling, an NPR investigative reporter; and Charlie Rose, who straddled commercial and noncommercial television as PBSs marquee talk-show host and, on CBS, a host on CBS This Morning and a correspondent on 60 Minutes.In some cases, the behavior they are accused of has been recounted in detail, though rarely by the management of the institutions they worked for. Jon McTaggart, the president of Minnesota Public Radio, disclosed some details of its review of Mr. Keillors case at the same time that journalists there published their report.In a statement to The Times last month, Mr. Keillor referred to a 12-page complaint about him as a highly selective and imaginative piece of work, and said he hadnt been interviewed during an investigation.AdvertisementIf I am guilty of harassment, Mr. Keillor said, then every employee who stole a pencil is guilty of embezzlement.New York Public Radio, which owns WNYC, has said little about Mr. Lopate and Mr. Schwartz — both decades-long fixtures of New York radio — other than that they were accused of inappropriate behavior and remarks. But reporters at WNYC recounted accusations, based on interviews with identified and unidentified women at the station, of bullying and sexually suggestive comments by both men, with one woman saying Mr. Lopate had sexually harassed her.Laura R. Walker, the chief executive of New York Public Radio, has said the station is committed to changing its culture, but a recent piece by New York magazine portrayed the staff as skeptical and disillusioned.Most of the accusations of harassment and improper behavior have been made against men in their 60s and 70s. That perhaps exacerbates an already present generational divide in public radio, where a younger generation of practitioners is being increasingly drawn to the freedom offered by other audio formats like podcasting.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The public radio environment is bursting at the seams with younger media makers who have embraced formats like podcasting as their primary means of expression, said Matthew Lasar, the author of Radio 2.0: Uploading the First Broadcast Medium. A new public radio world is emerging, and, intentionally or not, these difficult and painful changes feel like part of that transition.The lack of specificity of the charges against Mr. Lopate, 77, and Mr. Schwartz, 79, has added fuel to a small movement in their support. A Facebook group and an online petition have called for Mr. Lopates reinstatement; Art Spiegelman, the Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist, signed the petition and called Mr. Lopates dismissal the radio equivalent of demolishing Penn Station back in the early 1960s.In an email, Mr. Lopate declined to comment on the specifics of his situation, but said: I will say that in my case I still havent been given a cause for dismissal and my alleged misdeeds are so negligible, I suspect the station saw the #MeToo environment as a convenient time to make a programming decision.A lawyer for Mr. Schwartz said he had no comment.Whether such departures will affect fund-raising from listeners — usually a stations largest source of income — may soon become clear. Mike Savage, a veteran of public radio and a former NPR board member who now works as a consultant, said he had heard largely positive reports from stations around the country about fund-raising and membership.I dont think listeners view these acts as a problem with the quality of journalism or with these organizations themselves, Mr. Savage said. I think its a bump in the road.AdvertisementWNYC held a one-day pledge drive in late December, after Mr. Lopate and Mr. Schwartz were fired, and the station had its hosts address the controversy and promise transparency. The station declined to disclose the full results of that drive, though it said last week that listener donations in December and January were up 11.5 percent from the same period a year before.In December, 577 people canceled their memberships and cited the news about Mr. Lopate and Mr. Schwartz as the reason — out of a total of 247,000 members, according to the station.The station will begin its full five-day pledge drive on Feb. 26. Anne OMalley, the vice president of membership of New York Public Radio, said in a recent interview that it had not decided yet whether to address these issues as part of the drive, as the station had in December.It would be disingenuous to say that its not something were thinking about, Ms. OMalley said. But so far, we havent changed the pledge drive goal, and we havent changed our plans.New York Public Radio had $93 million in revenue for the year that ended in June, with 39 percent of that coming from member contributions and 33 percent from corporate underwriting, according to publicly disclosed finances.Of course, New York Public Radio is just one part of the wider public radio universe, which also reaches into rural pockets of the country far from the media hubs of New York and Washington. In those places, the local public station may serve as a vital news source, but the success of its pledge drives may depend on other factors, said Mark Vogelzang, the president of Maine Public, which presents radio and television.Up here in Maine, Mr. Vogelzang said, digging out from a big snowstorm probably has more of an effect on pledge drive participation than Garrison Keillor.A picture caption with an earlier version of this article misstated where Garrison Keillor was when the picture was taken. He was in a studio in St. Paul, Minn., but it was not a Minnesota Public Radio studio.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Public Radios #MeToo Cases Strain Bonds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 VIVIAN WANG
 
FEB. 20, 2018
Good morning on this foggy Tuesday.Up in Albany, this years state legislative session, which kicked off in January, is picking up steam. The State Senate and Assembly are getting ready to consider everything from tax code rewrites to letting New Yorkers vote early to new sexual harassment rules.But wait, theres more. A big new state park proposed for Brooklyn. A new tax on opioids and e-cigarettes. Here are a few of the proposals large and small to keep an eye on as the session unfolds.If history serves as a guide, it will all get decided behind closed doors, either during budget negotiations or just before the session ends, with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo leading the horse-trading.Congestion pricing: The idea of charging cars that drive into Manhattan a fee during the busiest hours has been debated for years, but opponents say it would unfairly burden drivers from the outer boroughs. Lawmakers say theyre open to the idea. But the devil is in the details. Watch for sparring over how much to charge, when to charge it and where the money raised should go.AdvertisementRejiggered taxes: Legislators on both sides of the aisle have promised to soften the impact of the  federal tax plan, which could cost New Yorkers thousands of dollars more in taxes each year by reducing state and local deductibility. Their plan? Replacing the state income tax with a payroll tax or allowing New Yorkers to pay the state through deductible charitable contributions.AdvertisementBut the federal government could challenge the legality of these workarounds. And thats if officials can even figure out how any of these highly theoretical, never-before-tried pitches would work.State Park at Jamaica Bay: Last month, Governor Cuomo unveiled a proposal to build a 407-acre state park on Jamaica Bay, partly atop old landfills, that he said would be the largest in the city. (That is, it would be the largest state park. Many city parks, including Central Park, are bigger.) To make the park, the state would take over a stretch of federal land near Starrett City and Spring Creek.Taxes on opioids and vapes: Mr. Cuomo has proposed a tax on prescription opioids sold in New York. The charge would be 2 cents per milligram of active opioid. All the money raised would go to a prevention and rehabilitation fund.The governor also proposed a tax of 10 cents per fluid milliliter on vapor products such as e-cigarettes. He tried a similar idea last year, but the proposal never made it out of the Legislature.Heres what else is happening:Warm and foggy. What kind of February weather is that?The record for this date is 69 degrees. We will come close, with a high of 65. The fog will lift in the afternoon but return in the evening.Tomorrows record of 68 degrees may fall — its supposed to hit 70, as the sun returns.• Health professionals suggest that the city is apportioning too much of its money on police efforts, and not enough on extending treatment to people battling addiction. [New York Times]• An upcoming trial will determine whether the citys police officers habitually use false arrests to bolster their pay. [New York Times]Advertisement• Joseph Percoco, a former top aide to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, is being represented by a top-shelf legal team at his federal corruption trial, but whos footing the bill remains a mystery. [New York Times]• A fire broke out on Saturday at Angelos, the oldest Italian restaurant in Little Italy. [New York Times]• As part of the anniversary of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, survivors are talking about the day and how they have moved on. [New York Times]• The New York Times examined homelessness step by step through the eyes of several families. [New York Times]• The N.Y.P.D. is being dragged down by overweight cops — and the brass isnt doing anything about the problem, police sources said. [New York Post]• Some retail locations in New York produce more lottery winners than others, a new report showed. [NBC New York]• A look at projects, from museums to landmarks, designed by black architects. [Curbed New York]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: The Block Was WatchingPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Kids can learn about the history of horses, and meet a parks department horse, at the Greenbelt Nature Center on Staten Island. 10:30 a.m. [Free]• The Brooklyn poets Jason Koo, Joe Pan, JP Howard and Vanessa Jimenez Gabb read at the Kinokuniya Bookstore in Midtown. 6 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• A screening of Malcolm X Speaks at the Seward Park Library in Lower Manhattan. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• A discussion about women in the workplace in China and the Muslim world at the main New York Public Library in Midtown. 6:30 p.m. [Free, registration recommended]• Devils host Blue Jackets, 7 p.m. (MSG+).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until March 1.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Now that the proposals have been put out there, who will actually decide if they become reality? Heres a quick primer on the key players in Albany.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. New York has a history of powerful executives, and no doubt Mr. Cuomo will exert a heavy hand on any legislative or budget negotiations this year. Some observers believe that Mr. Cuomo, a moderate, is tacking left as he gears up for the election this fall (which he is expected to win handily).Assembly Speaker Carl E. Heastie. Mr. Heastie, a Democrat from the Bronx, leads the 150-member State Assembly, which is dominated by Democrats from the metro area. He is a moderate who assumed power in 2015, after longtime speaker Sheldon Silver was forced to resign over corruption charges, and is the first African-American speaker in the states history.Senate Majority Leader John J. Flanagan. Like Mr. Heastie, Mr. Flanagan, a Republican from Long Island, took the reins in the wake of scandal. He became the leader of the 63-member State Senate in 2015, after his predecessor, Dean Skelos, was arrested on federal corruption charges. Mr. Flanagan must broker deals between his partys more moderate delegation from Long Island and more conservative senators upstate.The Independent Democratic Conference Leader, Jeffrey Klein. Only in New York would you find the I.D.C., a group of eight renegade Democratic senators who collaborate with the Republicans, solidifying their control of the chamber. That collaboration has given Mr. Klein, the groups leader, disproportionate influence in Albany. It remains to be seen if a recent accusation of sexual assault will change that.AdvertisementNew York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SAIRA KHANFEB. 20, 2018
The video, posted on the internet last summer, wasnt supposed to be the coming-out story of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.It opens with the voice of a man wryly narrating a fictional encounter in which he is asked to leave an airplane for speaking Arabian. The words Queer Muslim Proud appear on the screen, followed by an introduction to the subject, in neon letters. As audience members in a dimly lit club cheer, Mr. Bhutto appears in a silky dress, dancing to the 1980s hit, Disco Deewane, by the Pakistani singer Nazia Hassan. He shimmies and sways, a pink scarf pinned to his hair, light-blue eye shadow reaching up to his eyebrows.South Asian viewers might not have recognized Mr. Bhuttos face but they certainly knew his name. In his native Pakistan, the news media voraciously covered the short film. The reaction focused, in a negative way, on him being a queer Muslim man.Perhaps I was a bit naïve, Mr. Bhutto said in a phone interview. I had been under the radar for so long, I didnt think people cared as much as they did.AdvertisementMr. Bhutto is a visual and performance artist who lives in San Francisco, and the video about him was created by filmmakers as part of The Turmeric Project, a series highlighting L.G.B.T.Q. South Asians living in America. Much of his work, including a recent show at the citys SOMArts Cultural Center, explores the intersection of Islam, sexuality and masculinity.But the reason viewers across the world clamored about the video, and why it continues to stir controversy, was because Mr. Bhutto is the grandson and namesake of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the founder of the Pakistan Peoples Party (P.P.P.), a left-wing political party that held power in Pakistan on and off since 1967. (The current governing party, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, is a center-right conservative group.) After leading the country for much of the 1970s, the elder Zulfikar Bhutto was overthrown in a military coup and executed in 1979. Three of his children who went into politics, most prominently the former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, later suffered similarly violent ends.FEB. 20, 2018
Mr. Bhutto was 6 years old when his father, Murtaza, was killed in a chaotic gunfight with the police outside the family home in Karachi; the exact circumstances of his death remain mysterious. Although Mr. Bhutto said that his immediate family has never pushed him to enter politics, he is considered by many Pakistanis to be the successor to the familys turbulent dynasty. Bhutto Jr steps into art world, raises hopes, a headline in Dawn, one of Pakistans leading English-language newspapers, said. In a Facebook comment, one user pleaded to Bhutto, You are doing nice job but please take lead party of your grand papa we all missing you.AdvertisementEqually impassioned but hostile reactions from overseas South Asians to the video centered on Mr. Bhuttos sexuality, especially on the 10-second-long scene capturing his joyful drag performance. In Pakistan, same-sex sexual acts are prohibited by law, and there are no anti-discrimination laws to protect L.G.B.T.Q. citizens, although the Senate recently approved amendments to a bill that allows trans people to choose their gender without needing to appear before a medical board.News reports of ostracism, legal threats and attacks against gay Pakistanis, or against those perceived to be gay, are not uncommon; in one highly publicized case, a transgender activist died from gunshot wounds after delays in her medical care. Homophobic comments on Mr. Bhuttos video, both from media sources and social media users, employed derogatory terms and curses to condemn him and his art. There was so much negativity when it came out, and the focus was on the drag part of it, Mr. Bhutto said.Drag is not openly accepted in Pakistan. The closest thing may be the performances by hijras — transgender or intersex people who were categorized as males at birth but who do not conform to traditional ideas of masculinity. While they do not fit the Western definition of drag queens, they dance and sing at public ceremonies while wearing womens clothing. At first, Mr. Bhutto was reluctant to discuss his own use of cross-dressing. But now the cats out of the bag, he said. Drag is an integral part of my practice; what point is there being shy and tiptoeing around it anymore?Mr. Bhutto, 27, began using visual and performance works to explore Islamic identity after coming to the United States, in 2014, to pursue his M.F.A. at the San Francisco Art Institute. Newly arrived in the city, he was shocked by a notorious series of anti-Muslim ads on city buses, paid for by Pamela Geller and the American Freedom Defense Initiative. It made me want to hide who I was, he said; at the same time, he added, the explicit Islamophobia energized me in a way I wasnt in Pakistan. Alongside the Iranian artist Minoosh Zomorodinia, he began exploring acts that emphasized and embraced his status as a Muslim in America: together, the two developed prayformances, in which they completed the Muslim ritual of praying in public spaces.It was another act of hatred that spurred Mr. Bhutto to also weave his identity as a gay person into his art. On June 12, 2016, Omar Mateen, an American Muslim man, killed 49 people at a popular Orlando gay club. The tragedy, and unsubstantiated rumors that Mr. Mateen may have been a closeted gay man, opened up a rare mainstream discourse, both in United States and in the Muslim world, on queerness in Islam. It became clear to Mr. Bhutto that people think youre either queer or youre Muslim, and that somehow those two things are in opposition to one another.During that period, Mr. Bhutto attended his first drag show. If you arent used to it, its very impactful: the makeup, the costume, the performance, the songs, he said. He first tried his hand at drag a few months later, at a local bar. Over time, he began building his performances around music and spoken-word sections that address his religion and cultural background — which can be surprisingly jarring and political to the audience, he said.In the same vein, his mixed-media series Mussalmaan Musclemen aims for interesting confusion for the viewer, this time through the layering of cheap fabrics from Pakistan over beefcake photos from an Urdu translation of an exercise manual supposedly originally written by Arnold Schwarzenegger.There are some misguided ideas about what Islam represents and the threat that Muslim men pose, Mr. Bhutto explained. By combining homoerotic images of musclebound men with embroidered sections of flowery cloth, and by emphasizing the calligraphic Arabic script, he seeks to challenge assumptions about Muslim masculinity.Last fall, Mussalmaan Musclemen was included in the Karachi Biennale. Though it was the first time that Mr. Bhutto had been home since the Turmeric Project video caused an uproar, he said that he wasnt nervous — he has always made sure to maintain a low profile when he travels to Pakistan. But it would be more difficult to stay incognito if he were openly practicing his art there, which, he said, is why hes not interested in moving back to the country.AdvertisementI respect what my father did, Mr. Bhutto said. He dedicated his entire life to a cause, he made himself physically vulnerable for a cause, I respect that — but, honestly, its not for me.In San Francisco, Mr. Bhutto is busy with his show at SOMArts, The Third Muslim: Queer and Trans Muslim Narratives of Resistance and Resilience, which he organized with the artist Yas Ahmed. With hundreds of people in attendance at the opening ceremony, the show has been well-received in the art world — and no backlash in Pakistan. It also features work by 15 queer, trans and gender nonconforming Muslim artists from around the world, including Syria, Iran, and Pakistan.The exhibition tackles the representation of Islam and Muslims all over the world but through a queer lens, Mr. Bhutto said. At least in America, he noted, these days, identifying as Muslim is more tricky than identifying as queer, funnily enough.An earlier version of this article misspelled the title of Zulfikar Ali Bhuttos mixed-media series. It is Mussalmaan Musclemen, not Musaalmaan Muscleman.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Coming Out, Politics Aside.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KAREN ZRAICK and LANCE BOOTHFEB. 18, 2018
Here are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead.1. The mass shooting generation is speaking out.The teenagers who survived last weeks school shooting in Parkland, Fla., were born into a world reshaped by the 1999 attack at Columbine High School in Colorado. Their generation grew up practicing active shooter drills — and wondering whether it could happen at their school.This week, of course, it did. And many students responded not by grieving silently, but with loud calls for gun control measures. Above, a vigil at the school.The 19-year-old suspect, Nikolas Cruz, had exhibited every single known red flag before the attack, and the F.B.I. failed to act on a tip last month that Mr. Cruz was a threat. Here are brief portraits of the 14 students and three staff members who were killed.____2. We did a deep dive into the attack in Niger in October that left four American soldiers dead.Few Americans — even senior members of Congress — know much about the 800 U.S. troops there. They were supposed to be training and advising Nigerien soldiers, four of whom were also killed in the attack. Above, a training exercise last year.AdvertisementInterviews with current and former officials, service members and witnesses point to intelligence failures and strategic miscalculations that left the soldiers in hostile territory with no backup.AdvertisementMore broadly, their deaths have reignited a longstanding argument in Washington over the sprawling and often opaque war against jihadist groups that began after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.____3. More than a dozen Russians and three companies were charged with interfering in the 2016 elections, underscoring the conclusion that Russia is engaged in a virtual war against the U.S.It was the first indictment in connection with election meddling secured by the special counsel in the Russia investigation, Robert Mueller, above. President Trump claimed personal vindication, writing on Twitter that there was no collusion!Prosecutors said that Facebook and Instagram were the most frequently used tools for Russian operations that aimed to sow political discord.____4. The Senate blocked three measures — including one backed by President Trump — to resolve the fate of the young people known as Dreamers.What will happen now is unclear. The program that was protecting an estimated 690,000 people from deportation was rescinded by Mr. Trump, and it will expire on March 5. Above, a protest in Washington last month.Congress is in recess this week, and immigrant rights advocates are turning their attention to the legal arena. Two federal courts have blocked the administration from ending the program, but the White House wants those rulings overturned.AdvertisementThe Supreme Court convened a closed-door conference on Friday to discuss whether to take up the issue immediately.____5. Cyril Ramaphosa, above, took over as president of South Africa. He had been deputy president and is one of the richest men on the continent.He succeeds Jacob Zuma, who resigned after nearly nine years as president. Mr. Zuma, once known as a charismatic anti-apartheid hero, had come to symbolize the corruption that flourished during his time in office.____6. Our correspondent on the ground in northern Syria met some of the fighters for the Syrian Democratic Forces. The American-backed group, which includes Kurds and Arabs, drove the Islamic State out of a large section of northeastern Syria.Were very proud, said Shervan Derwish, above. We did something for our people, and for the world.Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was in Turkey, where he met with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to discuss the diplomatic crisis between their countries over Turkeys military operations against Kurdish forces in Syria.____7. What does natural mean, exactly? The term is on more and more products these days, from fruit juice to shampoo to baby wipes.The problem, consumer groups say, is that there is no legal or regulatory definition of what natural is. That has spurred hundreds of lawsuits.AdvertisementThe debate echoes the tussling over the term organic in the 1990s. (The Department of Agriculture did eventually create a definition and certification process.)And we havent even gotten to healthy yet.____8. Theres just a week to go in the Winter Olympics.We caught up with Tara Lipinski and Johnny Weir, the NBC figure skating analysts who have all but upstaged the athletes with their very-big-night-out attire. They took us through some of the outfits in the 22 suitcases they took to Pyeongchang, South Korea.Heres the full Olympic medals table, results and schedule. And you can sign up here for direct messages from our sports editor at the Games.____9. Flynn the bichon frisé was crowned Best in Show at the 142nd Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in New York.The jovial 5-year-old cut a striking figure in the ring: His powder-puff fur was painstakingly coifed, and he trotted across the floor with a light, jaunty step.Speaking of pups, were ringing in the Year of the Dog, which began Friday. Our friends in Cooking have a wide selection of recipes to celebrate the Lunar New Year.____10. Finally, did you keep up with the headlines last week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz.AdvertisementAnd a friendly reminder: Its not all bad out there. In this roundup of uplifting stories, we have snowboarder Chloe Kims hangry tweets, a postal stamp featuring Mr. Rogers, above, and an easy way to make kids happier and healthier.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JONATHAN MARTIN and MAGGIE HABERMANFEB. 18, 2018
WASHINGTON — The detailed indictment of 13 Russians for intervening in the 2016 presidential election has rekindled a debate that had never fully gone away and now seems destined to become one of the great unresolved questions in American political history: Did Moscow tilt the election to Donald J. Trump?The 37-page indictment, revealing a sophisticated network that sought to bolster Mr. Trump and undermine Hillary Clinton by staging rallies and purchasing incendiary ads on social media, handed Democrats ammunition to claim that Mr. Trumps success was illegitimate because it was buttressed by a foreign power.Yet even as it offered Mrs. Clinton and her advisers some measure of vindication by making clear that the Russians had supported Mr. Trumps candidacy — an assertion he has long dismissed as a hoax — the indictment was also vexing to both Democrats and Republicans.Opponents of Mr. Trump do not yet have any conclusive proof that he colluded with the Russians. And Mr. Trumps supporters must continue to contend with questions about whether his upset for the ages was the result of foul play.AdvertisementThat has left both sides grappling with a new twist in a debate that has consumed the political universe since the revealing final hours of election night: How did he do it?AdvertisementThe dispute is especially raw because of the razor-thin margin in the election and the uncertainty over what exactly tipped the balance. Mrs. Clinton, who handily won the national popular vote, lost the Electoral College vote and therefore the presidency because Mr. Trump defeated her by less than a combined 80,000 votes in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.Few Democrats believe that Mr. Trump won solely as a result of Russias intervention. But many think the meddling exacerbated Mrs. Clintons challenges, making her more vulnerable to what some believe was the decisive blow: the announcement by James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director at the time, just over a week before the election that he was reopening the investigation into her use of a private email server.Russia succeeded in weakening her enough so that the Comey letter could knock her off, said Jennifer Palmieri, who was Mrs. Clintons campaign communications director.But veterans of Mr. Trumps campaign shake their head at what they believe is an abiding sense of denial among Clinton loyalists over her deficiencies.The election was still won because Donald Trump was a better candidate with a superior message taking on a horrible candidate who people thought was corrupt, said David Bossie, a senior Trump strategist who is now president of the conservative lobbying group Citizens United. He allowed that Moscow had mounted a malicious, disruptive campaign.No single factor was determinative in an election that brought nearly 140 million Americans to the polls. And the nations intelligence agencies say they do not have any way to calculate whether the Russian effort swung the election.To credit the victory to anyone else including those 13 Russians is to demean everyday Americans power to control their own destiny, said Stephen K. Bannon, the Trump campaign chief executive, who reportedly spent 20 hours with the team led by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel in the Russia investigation, last week. The deplorables deserve better.AdvertisementYet it is difficult for Republicans to contend that the multimillion-dollar Russian intervention had no impact, with 126 million Americans being exposed to Russian-sponsored posts on Facebook alone.The interference was not limited to the actions laid out by Mr. Mueller in the indictment of the 13 Russians linked to a troll farm known as the Internet Research Agency.According to the intelligence community, the Russian government supported the email hacking of the Democratic National Committee and the personal account of John D. Podesta, the Clinton campaign chairman, as well as the disclosure of Mrs. Clintons paid speeches. The committee emails, leaked just before the Democratic National Convention, helped increase the rancor between supporters of Mrs. Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders.
                Thirteen Russian nationals have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process through inflammatory social media posts and organized political rallies.            And the Podesta emails, leaked slowly over the month of October, were doled out selectively, with a number of exchanges held back, according to two Clinton campaign officials. While there were plenty of anodyne messages in the trove, the hackers made sure to reveal the messages that maximized the appearance of D.N.C. behavior unfairly favoring Mrs. Clintons campaign.Further, a major factor in Mrs. Clintons loss of the three crucial Rust Belt states, which every Democratic nominee had carried since 1992, was a drop-off in turnout and the performance of third-party candidates.She could not match former President Barack Obamas turnout among blacks in cities like Philadelphia, Detroit and Milwaukee, and the Green Party nominee, Jill Stein, captured enough votes to make up the difference between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The indictment says the Russians worked to exacerbate those challenges. It says that they funded social media posts that were explicitly aimed at encouraging U.S. minority groups not to vote in the 2016 U.S. presidential election or to vote for a third-party U.S. presidential candidate.For example, the Russians created an Instagram account, Woke Blacks, and posted messages urging African-Americans not to vote at all rather than support the lesser of two devils. They also purchased an ad on Instagram to promote a post that read: Choose peace and vote for Jill Stein. Trust me, its not a wasted vote.The Stein vote alone clearly diminished Clintons vote and some of the vote that might have gone to us in Milwaukee and stayed home was probably discouraged, and this Russia stuff played a role in that discouragement, said Paul Maslin, a Democratic pollster based in Wisconsin. Out of the 10 factors that most caused Trump to win, maybe this was only the seventh, but the fact that this is even on a relatively short list ought to be alarming.AdvertisementStill, Republicans and even some Democrats note that the Russian meddling may not have mattered at all if Mrs. Clinton had run a better campaign. She ventured twice to Ohio in the final days of the campaign — a state she would lose by eight points — but never set foot in Wisconsin during the general election, and she made a few strategic errors in Michigan.Despite pleas from Michigan officials, her national campaign did not ask Mr. Obama to visit the state until the last day of the campaign — and it was forced to dispatch him to Ann Arbor to rally college students rather than sending him to Detroit, because a police funeral was scheduled in the city.
                Read the text of the indictment of 13 foreigners associated with Russia and three Russian organizations with illegally using social media platforms to sow political discord            And when Mrs. Clinton visited Michigan in the last days of the election, she spent some of her time in the deeply conservative and religious western part of the state trying to win over Republicans who were thought to be uneasy with Mr. Trump on moral grounds.Its complicated, said Representative Debbie Dingell, a Michigan Democrat who pleaded with Mrs. Clintons campaign to devote more attention to the state. The Russians clearly did things that made their way into Michigan. At the same time, as Democrats, if were not talking about issues that matter to people, then were not connecting with our base either.Stu Sandler, a Michigan Republican strategist, was blunter: Clinton didnt do enough in inner-city Detroit, and that was noticed by a lot of Democrats here.Mrs. Clinton did spend considerable time in Pennsylvania, but she suffered there from what plagued her in the other parts of the industrial Midwest: Too many black voters stayed home, a slice of white liberals voted third-party, and many of the working-class whites who had backed Mr. Obama swung to Mr. Trump.Her environmental and gun-control policies turned off some of the states ancestral Democrats, and the views she and her husband held in the 1990s on criminal justice depressed black turnout.She was very unpopular here, so she didnt motivate the Democrats, said Rob Gleason, who was the state Republican chairman in 2016.AdvertisementTo Democrats, though, Mrs. Clintons shortcomings were precisely what Russia preyed on to undercut her campaign.We will never be able to know for certain if the massive Russian operation was the difference between victory and defeat, said Representative Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania. But there is one thing we absolutely can say with certainty: It was a factor. The Russians wouldnt have devoted hundreds of people and tens of millions of dollars on this operation if it wasnt having an effect.Even as Mr. Trump polarizes the country, both his admirers and detractors found themselves in agreement with one of his many Twitter observations on Sunday: that the Russians intended to sow chaos, and have succeeded beyond their wildest dreams.Jonathan Martin reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Moscows Hand Swirled in U.S., but Whether It Tipped Election Is Unclear.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By TRIP GABRIEL and JESS BIDGOODFEB. 20, 2018
In Oklahoma, a state senator was charged with sexual battery after a female Uber driver said he tried to kiss her. In California, a state assemblyman was accused of following a lobbyist into a restroom and masturbating in front of her. And in Minnesota, a lobbyist said a state representative repeatedly propositioned her, including by sending a text that read: Would it frighten you if I said that I was just interested in good times good wine good food and good sex?These and other allegations of sexual misconduct led to resignations by nearly a dozen state and federal lawmakers in recent months, setting off a flurry of special elections around the country to fill seats suddenly left open by the #MeToo reckoning.Yet the candidates running to replace these disgraced men — many of whom are women — are hesitating to put sexual harassment front and center as an issue in their campaigns. In at least eight state legislative and two congressional races, including special elections in Minnesota and Oklahoma that were held last week, the subject has rarely been mentioned in advertisements, rallies or when knocking on doors.You get an eye roll and thats it, said Tami Donnally, a Republican running to fill a Florida State Senate seat on April 10 after the resignation last year of Jeff Clements, a powerful Democrat who admitted to an affair with a lobbyist. Ms. Donnally, vice-chairwoman of the Republican Party of Palm Beach County, said voters shrug off the issue: Oh well, another one bites the dust, lets move on, tell me what youre interested in.AdvertisementIn Minnesota, Karla Bigham, a Democrat who won a special election on Feb. 12 to replace a disgraced member of her own party, found slightly more interest in the issue, though it did not dominate conversations.AdvertisementPeople were well aware of why we were having a special election, Ms. Bigham, who has been a union organizer, said. They expected a change and I talked about that on the doors in Minnesota — we need a cultural change in the Capitol.Some candidates said they have hesitated to press the issue because sexual harassment does not weigh as heavily on voters minds as do other concerns, such as the economy, local issues or their approval or disapproval of President Trump.In most years, there are scores of special elections around the country to fill vacancies in statehouses and Congress. Most occur after a lawmaker dies or resigns after winning higher office, getting a political appointment or taking a private-sector job.This year, sudden openings after revelations of sexual misconduct have added to the count, creating a new brand of #MeToo elections.Two coming special elections are for Congress: a race on March 13 to fill the seat of former Representative Tim Murphy of Pennsylvania, a Republican who reportedly texted a mistress to seek an abortion; and one on April 24 to replace former Representative Trent Franks of Arizona, who asked female staff members to serve as surrogate mothers for him.In addition, there are special elections to fill statehouse vacancies left by lawmakers accused of sexual harassment or misconduct in six states, including Florida, Kentucky, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and two each in California and Minnesota.Both parties are closely watching for districts that flip from Republican to Democrat, seeking signs of a rising blue wave leading up to the November midterms (there have been 36 Republican-to-Democratic flips in statehouses since Mr. Trumps election win), but the seats left open over sexual misconduct allegations are not part of that trend so far.AdvertisementThat is because most were in districts that are safely Republican or Democratic, and voters have shown no inclination to punish the party of a lawmaker who quit after accusations of sexual misbehavior.In Minnesota last week, Jeremy Munson, a Republican, retained a State House seat for his party in a rural district after the resignation of former Representative Tony Cornish. Leading up to the special election, Mr. Cornish campaigned for Mr. Munson. In an interview, Mr. Cornish said, I didnt run into any negativity in personal appearances or anything else.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Cornish, a former deputy sheriff of Blue Earth County, stepped down after a lobbyist in the capital, Sarah Walker, said he had propositioned her for years.Ms. Walker said she viewed it as outrageous that a candidate would want Mr. Cornishs endorsement on the campaign trail. To me it seems to speak to the Republicans total disregard or concern about sexual harassment allegations, she said.Another candidate not shying from the support of a fallen legislator is Steve Montenegro of Arizona, who hopes to fill the seat of Mr. Franks, the Republican who was accused of offering an aide $5 million to be a surrogate mother for his baby. Mr. Montenegro, a conservative state senator who resigned to run for the seat, quickly touted an endorsement from the departing congressman. Trent has asked me to run, Mr. Montenegro said in a Facebook video posted the day Mr. Franks resigned, and thats an honor.The Arizona district covers reliably Republican suburbs outside Phoenix, and it is widely expected to remain in Republican hands. State Senator Debbie Lesko, another Republican seeking the seat, said she has largely avoided the subject of Mr. Frankss disgrace, although occasionally it comes up on the trail.I usually respond by saying, Well, in the Republican primary, its myself and 11 men running, and Im not going to sexually harass anyone, Ms. Lesko said.Some of the candidates hoping to replace Raul Bocanegra, a California state assemblyman accused by women of groping or unwanted advances, are closely linked with the movement that ousted him. One accused Mr. Bocanegra, a Democrat, of harassing a co-worker last fall; another declared her candidacy after calling for his resignation last year, but has since decided to run in the general election rather than the special election.I think theres definitely a feeling for the people running that its incumbent for them to bring respectability back to the seat, said Adama Iwu, a lobbyist who helped to organize a campaign against sexual harassment in California politics.AdvertisementBut Dan Schnur, a lecturer in political communications at the University of Southern California, said the issue has not dominated races to replace Mr. Bocanegra or to replace Matt Dababneh, another Democratic lawmaker, who is accused of masturbating in front of a female lobbyist.Running against a candidate facing these kind of accusations is a different type of challenge than running to replace one, Mr. Schnur said.In Oklahoma, a Republican easily held onto a State Senate seat that had been occupied for nearly a decade by Bryce Marlatt, who was arrested last year after his Uber driver accused him of grabbing and kissing her. (He has pleaded not guilty.)Casey Murdock, a rancher and state representative who won Mr. Marlatts seat in the heavily Republican district, said voters occasionally told him they were disappointed in Mr. Marlatt. Mr. Murdock said he was skeptical about the Uber drivers accusations. I still, I dont believe it, he said.Mr. Murdocks Democratic opponent, Amber Jensen, said that with 32 percent of the vote, she had outperformed expectations for a Democrat running in this rural stretch of northwest Oklahoma. She spoke with voters who grimaced over the allegations against Mr. Marlatt, but said she did not make them a central part of her campaign.At the end of the race, we all still have to live in the same town, said Ms. Jensen, who owns a construction company. But behind the scenes, that is something that drove me forward because — well, because, me, too. Ive been victimized before. Im really tired of men making the decisions for women.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Candidates Riding the #MeToo Wave Mostly Sidestep Talk of Harassment.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Julian SanchezIts a Hollywood cliché thats been adopted by villains from the trickster god Loki in Marvels The Avengers to James Bonds Skyfall nemesis Raoul Silva: They are captured, only for the heroes to realize — too late! — that being caught was part of the villains evil plan all along. With Fridays release of an indictment detailing Project Lakhta — the information operations component of Russias efforts to interfere with the 2016 presidential election — its worth asking whether President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has been reading from a similar script.The charging document released by the Justice Department names 13 Russian nationals associated with the innocuous-sounding Internet Research Agency, a team of well-funded professional trolls who carried out a disinformation campaign that spread from social media to real-world rallies. If there were any lingering doubts that Russias intervention was aimed at harming Hillary Clintons campaign and bolstering Donald Trumps, an internal directive quoted in the indictment spells it out explicitly: use any opportunity to criticize Hillary and the rest (except Sanders and Trump — we support them).That Russia should have preferred Mr. Trumps victory to Mrs. Clintons is hardly a surprise: The real estate mogul had long been open in his fawning admiration for autocratic leaders generally and Mr. Putin in particular. But in any game of strategy, the best moves are those that accomplish multiple objectives. Fridays indictment should serve as a reminder that Project Latkha didnt merely aim to influence the outcome of the election, but also its tone, and Americans attitudes toward their own democratic institutions.Theres a critical back story to Russias interference: A longstanding Kremlin grudge against Mrs. Clinton, cemented in 2011 when, as secretary of state, she cast doubt on whether Russias parliamentary elections, plagued by allegations of fraud and vote rigging, had been free and fair.The bulk of the Russian teams online trolling efforts were directed at Mrs. Clinton, but the indictment notes that they also took aim at other, Republican candidates; Mr. Trump, Bernie Sanders and the Green Party candidate, Jill Stein, were spared. The trio had something more than opposition to Mrs. Clinton in common: A central theme of their campaigns was that the American political system is fundamentally rigged — the same claim that had so incensed Mr. Putin.This same theme crops up in many of the Russian front groups attacks: Hillary Clinton has already committed voter fraud during the Democrat Iowa caucus, one social media post declared. One of the more memorable stunts the Russian team sponsored — hiring an American to attend rallies dressed as Mrs. Clinton in prison garb, toting an ersatz jail cell — fits the same pattern: She had to be cast not merely as an inferior candidate, but as a criminal who could win only through corruption.Mr. Trump was vehemently committed to the same message, not only leading those infamous chants of Lock her up! but routinely declaring that if he were defeated — which polls throughout the campaign suggested was the most likely outcome — it would only be because Democrats had rigged the vote.In hindsight, its natural to think that Russias primary aim was to achieve the upset Trump victory we now know occurred. But if they were relying on the same polls as the rest of the world, they would have regarded that as a long-shot. It seems at least as likely that they hoped a strong showing would position a defeated Mr. Trump as a thorn in Mrs. Clintons side, casting a pall over the legitimacy of her administration by fuming publicly about how he had been cheated. (They probably could not have imagined that Mr. Trump would do this even in victory, insisting without any evidence that he had lost the popular vote only because of voter fraud.)If we run with the hypothesis that Russias core goal was to sow doubt about the integrity and fairness of American elections — and, by implication, erode the credibility of any criticism aimed at Russias — then the ultimate exposure of their interference may well have been viewed not as frustrating that aim but as one more perverse way of advancing it.Similar logic might account for Russian cyberattacks on many state voter registration systems — first reported in June and more recently confirmed by Department of Homeland Security officials. Theres a consensus among cybersecurity experts that our unusually decentralized electoral system would make it extraordinarily difficult to surreptitiously change the result of a national election via hacking from abroad. But that might not be necessary: An attack might succeed just by creating widespread uncertainty about whether results had been altered, creating a crisis of legitimacy by the ultimate victor.United States intelligence officials themselves have voiced suspicions that Russia intended to be caught. They were unusually loud in their intervention, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, told Congress at a hearing last March. Its almost as if they didnt care that we knew. Wade into any online political discussion, where the conversation-ending accusation Russian bot! has become a commonplace, and its hard to deny that its worked.If this sounds plausible, we should also consider that our political response, too, may have been part of the plan. With President Trump dutifully refusing to implement retaliatory sanctions imposed on Russia by a large bipartisan majority in Congress, legislators have begun eyeing the online platforms on which so much disinformation spread. You created these platforms, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, railed at a panel of lawyers for Google, Facebook and Twitter in November, and now theyre being misused. And you have to be the ones who do something about it — or we will.That would be a final irony, and an unpleasant one. No less than our meddling in their internal elections, Russia has long resented United States criticism of the countrys repressive approach to online speech. Their use of online platforms to tamper with our presidential race reads not only as an attack, but as an implicit argument: The freedoms you trumpet so loudly, your unwillingness to regulate political speech on the internet, your tolerance for anonymity — all these are weaknesses, which well prove by exploiting them.Urgent as it is for the United States to take measures to prevent similar meddling in the next election, we should be careful that our response doesnt constitute a tacit agreement.Julian Sanchez is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionThe Editorial BoardOpinionRyan GoodmanAdvertisementBy CADE METZFEB. 19, 2018
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. — If you want to understand the priorities of a technology company, first look at the seating chart.At Googles Silicon Valley headquarters, the chief executive, Sundar Pichai, now shares a floor with Google Brain, a research lab dedicated to artificial intelligence.When Facebook created its own artificial intelligence lab at its offices about seven miles away, it temporarily gave A.I. researchers desks next to the fish bowl of a conference room where its chief executive and founder, Mark Zuckerberg, holds his meetings.I can high-five Mark and Sheryl from my desk, and the A.I. team was right next to us, said Facebooks chief technology officer, Mike Schroepfer, referring to Mr. Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer.AdvertisementEven Overstock.com, the online retailer based in the Salt Lake City area, now runs a mini-research operation called OLabs. It sits directly outside the office of the companys chief executive, Patrick Byrne.AdvertisementA growing number of tech companies are pushing research labs and other far-reaching engineering efforts closer to the boss. The point is unmistakable: What they are doing matters to the chief executive. It may even be the future of the company.The world is moving faster and faster. It is being driven by technology and innovation, said John Kotter, an emeritus professor at Harvard Business School who has written several books on business leadership. And a lot of these businesses are concluding that the speed of technological innovation should be the heart of everything.A year ago, the Google Brain team of mathematicians, coders and hardware engineers sat in a small office building on the other side of the companys campus. But over the past few months, it switched buildings and now works right beside the loungelike area where Mr. Pichai and other top executives work.Jeffrey Dean, the celebrated Google engineer who oversees the Brain lab, is a short walk from Mr. Pichai. So are Ian Goodfellow, the researcher behind a new A.I. technique that generates lifelike images on its own, and Norm Jouppi, who explores ways of accelerating A.I. research through a new breed of computer chip.Any C.E.O. thinks a lot about where people are sitting — who they can walk around and have casual conversations with, said Diane Greene, who oversees Googles cloud computing team and sits on the board of Alphabet, Googles parent company. It is a very significant statement that he has moved that group right next him.Google is placing big bets on the A.I. being explored by researchers like Mr. Goodfellow. Many questions still hang over the progress of this research. But Mr. Pichai and the rest of the Google leadership hope it will accelerate the evolution of everything from smartphones and home appliances to internet services and robotics.To Mr. Byrne, shaking up the seating chart at Overstock was a bit like a common management tactic in the military, when an officer will work closely with a small command initiatives group that is considerably more nimble than the rest of the organization.AdvertisementWe were getting bureaucratic, Mr. Byrne said. And this was a way of creating added competition outside the bureaucracy.These big companies are trying to duplicate the vibe of a Silicon Valley start-up, where the boss is next to everyone. As start-ups grow, they often put key technology teams next to the chief executive. Ms. Greene, who was the chief executive of the software company VMware, said she had always made a point of sitting beside the top engineers because they saw the companys future.There are limits to these arrangements. When Facebook built a team to explore the future of virtual reality on its vast social network, it made a similar desk move. The group is no longer seated next to Mr. Zuckerberg. Facebook said this was because the group had grown too large. But across Silicon Valley, virtual reality is no longer the buzziest of topics. That honor belongs to artificial intelligence.Where you sit has mattered for years at Facebook. The companys ad group traditionally sat far away from Mr. Zuckerberg. But after Facebook went public and started a big push for revenue, important members of the ad team moved next to the boss, said Antonio García Martínez, who wrote a book about his experiences inside Facebook.At Overstock, Mr. Byrne walks past his small research team every time he leaves his office. Like Ms. Greene, he sees this as an opportunity for spontaneous interaction. The team members can discuss their work with him, and Mr. Byrne, a doctor of philosophy with a long history of unorthodox business choices, will share his far-reaching ideas with them. And he gets to hear, without the pressure of a formal presentation, what the engineers are excited about.It was undeniable that proximity sparked conversation, said Judd Bagley, a kind of roving technologist and strategist who once worked in this group. Patrick prides himself on being able to walk up to anyone at the company, say hello, and occasionally even eat french fries off the plate on their desk.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Through OLabs, Overstock became the first major retailer to accept payment in the Bitcoin digital currency, and the lab eventually produced a company spinoff that seeks to apply the Bitcoin ethos to financial trading. Now, in an echo of the A.I. labs at Google and Facebook, the operation is focused on machine learning, which involves systems that can learn tasks on their own by analyzing large amounts of data.If a chief executive is close to these researchers, he or she is learning from them. But the boss is also showing them how important they are to the company. That is enormously valuable for engineers and mathematicians who are not necessarily generating immediate revenue, said Kevin Quennesson, a start-up executive who ran an A.I. team at Twitter.He also warned that companies risked putting too much pressure on researchers to produce results from work that was, by definition, a trip into the unknown. Amid so much spontaneous conversation with the chief executive, Mr. Bagley said, it is sometimes difficult to tell the difference between the formal direction and informal brainstorming.Status at Facebook was defined by how close your desk was to Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Martínez said. And if you were close to the boss, other groups resented you.Priorities also tend to ebb and flow. At Overstock, a new Bitcoin project will squeeze in beside OLabs. And at Facebook, the A.I. lab is no longer side by side with Mr. Zuckerberg because it also grew too large.AdvertisementStill, this work is particularly important to the company as it works to ensure the safety and integrity of our community — which has become Facebook code for guarding against false, misleading or dangerous activity on its social network, Mr. Schroepfer said. And the A.I. team is still only a short walk from Mr. Zuckerberg.A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Desk Near the Bosss Heart.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Talya MinsbergThe Olympic motto may be higher, faster, stronger. But the way the 2018 Pyeongchang Games have transpired it may as well be meh, nah, really?With only a couple of days left, the United States medal count of 21 is behind the 28 it won in the 2014 Sochi Games. NBCs prime-time ratings are down, too, about 16 percent from four years ago, though according to Total Audience Delivery, NBCs preferred measuring stick and the one it used to sell ads for the Games, viewership is only down 8 percent over all. But another barometer could be telling, too, of the Olympics popularity: Most of the viral hits online from the Games, according to data from Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and CrowdTangle, an analytics tool owned by Facebook, have little to do with athletic achievement. These heavily circulated snapshots have focused instead more on the quirky personalities, underdog efforts and curious moments that have always been a part of the Olympics but now spread to a wider audience.Of the accounts that CrowdTangle tracks, some of the top Facebook posts (those that see lots of likes, comments, shares and clicks) from Feb. 9 to 21 included memes (a spoof of figure skating routines), a look at the synchronized drones from the opening ceremony, a video of a woman practicing the sport of curling with a Roomba and two trailers for The Incredibles 2, which premiered during the Games. While the Roomba curler did indeed hurry hard, here are the other Olympians who managed to get a lot of attention, but perhaps not always in the way they intended. Red Gerard and Chloe Kim, both 17, won gold medals. Gerard aced his slopestyle snowboard performance, becoming the youngest snowboarding gold medalist. Kim, who missed qualifying for the 2014 Olympics because she was too young, easily won the halfpipe snowboard competition. But lets just say they are also very much teenagers.Gerard stayed up late watching Brooklyn Nine-Nine on Netflix and slept through his alarm the day of his gold medal run. He called his morning hectic. After winning the gold, he promptly let out an expletive heard on television. The internet found its first hero of the Games. For her part, Kim did not finish her breakfast sandwich the morning of her event, tweeting she was hangry (a combination of hungry and angry) minutes before her gold medal performance. According to Twitter, Kim had 15,000 followers before the tweet, and 100,000 new followers after it: Neither the figure skater Adam Rippon nor the skier Gus Kenworthy was favored to win a gold medal before the Games. But both had garnered news media attention as openly gay, outspoken members of the American team. Before the American delegation entered the opening ceremony, which Vice President Mike Pence attended, Kenworthy tweeted: It went viral. Four days later, after winning a bronze medal in the figure skating team competition — and incurring the wrath of internet trolls — Rippon wrote on Twitter: Another viral moment. Rippon and Kenworthy then received the ultimate good-luck charm and another bump of social excitement: a tweet from Britney Spears. Kenworthy had a disappointing 12th-place finish, but found his own shining moment. Unbeknown to him, cameras caught him kissing his boyfriend. Thats not something I had as a kid, Kenworthy told the New York Times reporter Karen Crouse. I didnt see a gay athlete at the Olympics kissing their boyfriend. I think if I had it would have made it a lot easier for me.In the mens 15-kilometer cross-country race, Dario Cologna of Switzerland won the gold, Simen Hegstad Kruger of Norway took silver and Denis Spitsov, a Russian, earned the bronze. But it was the last finishers — not the first — who created the races most memorable moment. They included Pita Taufatofua of Tonga, Sebastian Uprimny of Colombia and, por fin, German Madrazo of Mexico. Madrazo told reporters he had learned to ski only a year ago. Taufatofua skied on snow for the first time a few months before the Games. The group lifted Madrazo on its shoulders when he crossed the finish line almost 26 minutes after Cologna won the race. The underdogs instantly became fan favorites and a symbol of the Olympics, which posted a photo of Madrazo carrying the Mexican flag on its social media accounts, where it generated tens of thousands of likes. When the halfpipe snowboard king Shaun White regained his Olympic crown, he also returned to the top of social. But not only for his performance. According to CrowdTangle, four of the top 15 Instagram posts on the Olympics were posted by Shaun White. From Feb. 9 to 21, White was the most talked about athlete on Facebook, according to the company. (Facebook will release more complete data after the conclusion of the Games.) White was also the most mentioned athlete on Facebook during the 2014 Sochi Olympics, even though he failed to win a medal. But the discussion this time was not all about Whites athletic achievements. On the heels of his gold medal performance, he was asked about past sexual harassment allegations. Those allegations, and his responses, kept him in the limelight online in the days after his win. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsBy Thomas P. Bossert and Paddy McguinnessCongress is now considering long-overdue legislation that authorizes faster access to internationally stored electronic data needed to prosecute serious crime and disrupt terrorist plots in the United States, Britain and elsewhere. The legislation, the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act, or Cloud Act, would preserve law and order, advance the United States leadership in cybersecurity, ease restrictions on American businesses and enhance privacy standards globally. This is a priority for both of our governments.American efforts to investigate crime and terrorism are increasingly impeded by a lack of access to data stored outside the country, even when it is held by companies subject to United States jurisdiction. Britain and other allied foreign governments face similar problems. All too often, officials in one country investigating a serious crime with victims in that very same country cannot get data they need simply because it is on a server halfway across the world. The internet is moving fast, and our legal constructs are not keeping up. This leaves tech companies in the difficult position of having to withhold information that could protect public safety.To make matters worse, a case at the United States Supreme Court could leave our governments and others with no effective way to obtain vital evidence of serious crimes. Oral arguments are scheduled for Feb. 27 in that case, which asks whether Microsoft may comply with a United States warrant to disclose information related to an American crime stored on a cloud server in Ireland. Microsoft argues that it cannot.Fortunately, there is a legislative solution to this problem that advances a model that empowers law enforcement. The Republican senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Orrin Hatch of Utah, the Democratic senators Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island and Chris Coons of Delaware, and members of the House have proposed legislation that would clarify the legal authority of the United States to obtain data stored in another country, and would authorize special agreements to resolve potential conflicts of law. The bill would authorize the attorney general to enter into such agreements, but only with allies that respect privacy and protect civil liberties, and that have records of promoting and defending due process. The first one would be with Britain, which already has the authority to enter into such a pact.These agreements would not apply to foreign judicial orders directed at American citizens, or anyone in the United States, for that matter. Instead, the bill would promote swift justice among nations that share a common commitment to the rule of law, while protecting the privacy and safety of our citizens. The prime minister has stressed the great importance of the legislation to British authorities investigating criminal and terrorist activity. One of us, Paddy McGuinness, has testified before both houses of Congress to make the case for this change. President Trump adopted this priority upon taking office as part of his call for lawful access to information.In addition to improved law enforcement, this model advances American leadership in cybersecurity. American and British innovation created the internet, and United States-based companies dominate the online landscape. With that central role in the internet comes a responsibility to work with partners that share our values to support their safety and security. Any nation motivated to enter into an agreement with the United States will have to meet American standards of due process and ensure a commitment to the rule of law, not authoritarian whim.Some have argued that it is improper for the United States government to assert the authority to compel disclosure of data stored abroad. But Britain is one of many nations that already asserts this authority. The proposed law would not only put the United States on a par with these other nations but would also do so on its terms.Others argue the bill unwisely provides the American and British governments new powers to obtain private information. The reality is that courts in both governments already have the authority to compel a service provider to comply with a warrant, and we have a longstanding, but slow, treaty process for enforcing cross-border warrants. The Cloud Act considers these issues and provides thoughtful and swifter solutions. Neither government will issue a warrant without judicial approval.American businesses have indicated they support this legislation. Just ask companies like Microsoft, Google, Apple and Facebook. If foreign governments cannot gain access to data they need for legitimate law enforcement purposes, some countries may penalize American companies or require them to store data within their territory. Such data localization, as it is known, is costly for companies and may undermine privacy by requiring data storage in countries without due-process protections.We can build an international system in which rights-respecting countries can have access to the data they need to investigate serious crimes regardless of where companies choose to store it. This legislation is the first step.The authority is critical. With it, law enforcement officials in the United States, Britain and other countries with similar due-process standards would be empowered to investigate people suspected of terrorism and serious crimes like murder, human trafficking and the sexual abuse of children, regardless of where the suspects data happens to be stored. Obtaining access to overseas data held by companies subject to our jurisdiction is entirely consistent with our treaty obligations and international norms. With this legislation, our countries can meet these longstanding obligations, and meet them faster.The longer it takes to address this problem, the more our mutual public safety and national security will be undermined by the current legal obstacles to disclosure of data across borders.Thomas P. Bossert is the assistant to the president for homeland security and counterterrorism. Paddy McGuinness is the deputy national security adviser for Britain.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Nina JankowiczWASHINGTON — Rest easy, everyone. A year after President Trumps inauguration, Twitter claims it has solved the problem of Russian disinformation that plagued the 2016 election by playing — and according to Twitter executives, winning — this round of the game of Whack-a-Troll.In a Friday afternoon post updating users on its review of the 2016 election, Twitter touted its removal of 3,814 accounts and associated posts from the infamous St. Petersburg troll factory known as the Internet Research Agency.Facebook has similarly issued several statements this month about planned changes to address disinformation on its platform. Both companies have employed strong language to condemn the use of their platforms for spreading lies; Samidh Chakrabarti, the head of Facebooks civic engagement team, admitted that Facebook was far too slow to recognize how bad actors were abusing our platform.Its refreshing to see that these companies have finally realized their culpability in the spread of online disinformation. But their solutions to the phenomenon overlook homegrown purveyors of it. The companies have misplaced their focus in the fight, concentrating too heavily on removing Russian content while ignoring the problematic articles and posts created and shared by American outlets and users.In its statement, Twitter asserted that it is committed to identifying and removing more bots in the future. But it also added a few important caveats: automated election-related content associated with Russian signals represented a very small fraction of the overall activity on Twitter in the ten-week period preceding the 2016 election, and of tweets from Internet Research Agency-linked accounts, only 8.4 percent were election-related.What Twitter does not address is that the trolls will keep popping up. The Kremlin is unlikely to have concentrated all of its information warriors in one building. And according to researchers, up to 15 percent of all active Twitter accounts might be bots, Russian or otherwise. Twitter has a great deal more work to do on the automation front, but Whack-a-Troll is not where its disinformation problem ends.Twitter does not seem to comprehend that non-automated content, including from American accounts, is a huge part of the disinformation ecosystem. Its amplification of neo-Nazi rhetoric, abusive content and false or misleading stories spread by accounts with huge numbers of followers all affected rhetoric surrounding the 2016 election. Other than supporting a few small media literacy programs, Twitter doesnt seem to have a plan for eliminating the problematic content that originates within Americas own borders.Facebook, which played its own round of Whack-a-Troll last year, scrubbing its platform of Internet Research Agency-created pages and accounts, doubled down on efforts to abdicate responsibility for defining high-quality content. On Jan. 19, Facebook announced that it will poll users to determine which outlets they trust and with which they are most familiar, giving those outlets priority in the News Feed.These polls seem likely to reinforce existing biases, privilege well-known media giants and leave small outfits in the dust. After a year in which the United States witnessed a 37 percent decline in trust in institutions, the countrys dwindling local newsrooms are more important than ever, interpreting and contextualizing events from Congress to the City Council for their readers in a way that larger news organizations struggled to do. Facebook should place local news in a prominent location, prioritize content from high-performing smaller outlets, perhaps through a competitive application system, and make serious investments in local journalism.Facebook will also continue to rely on users to report false stories, which it will work with third-party fact-checkers to confirm and label. It claims this process stops the spread of untruths by 80 percent. Conveniently, Facebook ignores decades of research demonstrating that those who have consumed untruths are unlikely to buy into the corrected version.Like Twitter, Facebook is doing little to address problematic narratives that may not be patently false. After all, most of the infamous Russian election ads purchased on Facebook in 2016 were not fake. They were highly inflammatory messages aimed at the specific populations with whom they would most resonate. How might a concerned citizen or outside fact-checker respond to an ad comparing Hillary Clinton to Satan, or to a meme arguing that blue lives matter more than black lives?For both platforms, and for the internet as a whole, this is admittedly a hard question. But its not one without an answer. As private entities, these companies have the right — and the obligation — to update their terms of service to reflect the realities of the disinformation era, defining in plain English what content is permissible on their platforms and actively enforcing those definitions. Yes, it would be costly, but you cant put a price tag on democracy.By narrowly focusing on eliminating Russian accounts and posts, relying on users to determine which content is trustworthy and blindly believing that fact-checking will improve the rapidly worsening level of civil discourse in America, social media companies are relinquishing their role as todays most powerful gatekeepers of information. If these tech giants want to contribute to democracy instead of help to tear it down, they need to recognize that homegrown threats to civil discourse exist among the very users to whom they are bequeathing more responsibility. In a world where every person with a smartphone is a citizen journalist, a threat to democracy is a threat to democracy, no matter the posts country of origin.Nina Jankowicz (@wiczipedia) is a writer and analyst focusing on disinformation.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheera FrenkelSAN FRANCISCO — Over the past two months, Google has started letting people around the world choose what data they want to share with its various products, including Gmail and Google Docs.Amazon recently began improving the data encryption on its cloud storage service and simplified an agreement with customers over how it processes their information.And on Sunday, Facebook rolled out a new global data privacy center — a single page that allows users to organize who sees their posts and what types of ads they are served.While these changes are rippling out worldwide, a major reason for these shifts comes from Europe: The tech giants are preparing for a stringent new set of data privacy rules in the region, called the General Data Protection Regulation.Set to take effect on May 25, the regulations restrict what types of personal data the tech companies can collect, store and use across the 28-member European Union. Among their provisions, the rules enshrine the so-called right to be forgotten into European law so people can ask companies to remove certain online data about them. The rules also require anyone under 16 to obtain parental consent before using popular digital services. If companies do not comply, they could face fines totaling 4 percent of their annual revenue.With the deadline for the new rules now just a few months away, Silicon Valleys tech behemoths have been scrambling to get ready. Facebook and Google have deployed hundreds of people to make sense of the regulations. Many of the companies have overhauled how they give users access to their own privacy settings. Some have redesigned certain products that suck up too much user data. And in some cases, companies have removed products entirely from the European market because they would violate the new privacy rules.Every person who works for us has, in some way, been involved in preparing the company for G.D.P.R., said Doug Kramer, general counsel of CloudFlare, an internet performance and security company based in San Francisco that has tightened its data storage and processing practices. G.D.P.R. is going to introduce very fundamental changes to the way the internet works for everyone.The rush of activity is a reminder of how Europe has set the regulatory standard in reining in the immense power of tech giants, while other places — including the United States — have largely taken a noninterventionist stance. The G.D.P.R. rules were approved in late 2015 after tech companies like Facebook ran into problems over data protection with national privacy watchdogs in various European countries.European officials said the coming rules are forcing American tech giants to take a step back.There has not been any pushback from American companies, said Věra Jourová, the European Commissioner for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality. If anything, they seem very eager to understand how exactly they can comply with the regulation.Officials from Facebook, Google and other companies said in interviews that they had been working to give people more control over what data they share anyway. In the past, many of the companies fought back in European courts over privacy rules and declined to offer certain products in the region rather than redesign them to meet privacy standards.The coming of the new rules has nonetheless pushed a huge scale of internal change, Gilad Golan, Googles director for security and data protection, said at a San Francisco event last month to introduce new security features. When G.D.P.R. goes into effect in 2018, we will be ready, he said.The biggest challenge, he said, has been preparing for the regulations mandate that people in Europe must have control over how their digital data is organized. Google, he said, has had to go through each of its services — from Gmail to its Cloud storage services — to comply. Since the new rules require individuals to give their consent before a company accesses data, for example, Google has had to redesign many consent agreements, as well as change underlying technology to make it easier to remove someones data.For a company with infrastructure of our size, it takes a lot of work, Mr. Golan said.Facebook has also taken multiple steps to deal with the coming rules. On Sunday, the company began offering a new privacy center that puts user security settings on one page instead of dispersing them across different sections of the social network. While the company said the changes was separate from its preparations for the new European regulations, Facebooks chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, connected the two in a speech in Brussels last week.The new privacy center would give Facebook a very good foundation to meet all the requirements of the G.D.P.R. and to spur us on to continue investing in products and in educational tools to protect privacy, Ms. Sandberg said.Rob Sherman, Facebooks deputy chief privacy officer, said the social network has also held a series of Design Jams where it invites designers and engineers to reimagine how products look so that people can more easily see and control their online data.With the new rules coming, Facebook also decided not to roll out some products in Europe that would violate the privacy laws.Last November, for instance, the company unveiled a program that uses artificial intelligence to monitor Facebook users for signs of self-harm. But it did not open the program to users in Europe, where the company would have had to ask people for permission to access sensitive health data, including about their mental state. The social network has also kept out of Europe facial recognition software that tracks when photos of users are posted across the platform.Amazon, too, has made changes. Last April, the company wrote a blog post  outlining its efforts to comply with the new European regulations. The internet retailer said it would strengthen the encryption around the data it stores on its cloud storage services, and reaffirmed the rights of customers to choose which region — Europe or otherwise — where they want their data stored. Amazon declined to discuss the work.Some American tech companies said they welcomed the new data protection rules.We embrace G.D.P.R. because it sets a strong standard for privacy and data protection rights, which is at the core of our business, Julie Brill, a corporate vice president and deputy general counsel at Microsoft, said in an interview. We began work on G.D.P.R. as soon as it was adopted by the European Union. Our preparations for G.D.P.R. touch every part of our company.How the biggest tech companies handle the regulations will most likely influence their smaller counterparts. Angelo Spenillo, general counsel for Siteimprove, which helps companies manage their presence online, said many little tech companies have been looking toward Google and Facebook for how user privacy and data will be managed online.Where the bigger companies go, the smaller companies will follow suit, he said. Were going to see real changes across the board.Ms. Jourová said as the new rules take effect, countries outside Europe could begin demanding similar data protection measures for their citizens.There will be a moment, especially as more and more people in the U.S. find themselves uncomfortable with the channels monitoring their private lives, she said.Follow Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @sheerafAdvertisement
Advertising By                     
 SAPNA MAHESHWARI
 
JAN. 28, 2018
Rob Norman was greeted with a social media flood of well-wishes and compliments from marketing executives at major brands and even rival ad companies when he announced in November he was retiring as chief digital officer of GroupM, the media-buying arm of WPP.There are few people who actually knew, know and will always know whats next, Rishad Tobaccowala, chief growth officer for the Publicis Groupe, wrote on Twitter. Rob is one.The responses underscored Mr. Normans reputation, built over more than three decades, as a clarifying voice in a cacophonous media landscape.Mr. Norman, 57, has had a front-row view of that shifting world through his roles at GroupM, which spends billions of dollars a year on behalf of a long roster of WPP advertisers, from Campbell Soup to Unilever. (GroupM, where Mr. Norman remains a consultant, claims its responsible for one out of every three ads worldwide.)AdvertisementWhile television and newspapers were the dominant forces in his native England when Mr. Norman started his career, he began working with online advertising in the mid-1990s, taking on challenges like increasing listings on search engines like Excite and AltaVista.AdvertisementLater, he guided brands and colleagues through the heydays of MSN and Yahoo and the rise of platforms like YouTube, Facebook, Snapchat and streaming TV. Along the way, Mr. Norman became known for sharing his insights at industry events and in trade publications, always with a healthy dose of dry British wit.Mr. Norman recently spoke with The New York Times about where the media and advertising worlds are now and where he thinks they are going. The interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.There is a huge focus on how dominant Google and Facebook are in digital advertising, where they are often referred to as the duopoly. Some people have a hard time seeing that change.The people who are most stuck in the world are those who see hegemonic positions now and dont believe that now can be disrupted — despite the fact that what exists now only exists because everythings been disrupted.At the beginning of my career, the hegemonic position was held by ITV and the big commercial broadcasters. Then it was held by this display triumvirate of Yahoo, MSN and AOL and, separately, search by Google. And it took quite a long time to get here.If you asked anyone in 2009, Guess what the combined market shares of Google and Facebook will be in 2017, Im not sure there would have been anyone that would have come close.How long do you think will they maintain that position? It kind of depends on what Google and Facebook allocate their resources to, and like everybody else, it depends on how they manage to navigate actual and potential regulatory environments going forward. I think if they were both worried about a thing today, it would be what regulators think about them, because theyre not at the peak of their popularity with those folks at the moment, it would seem to me.AdvertisementI think thats why people are so interested in the Amazon story and were so interested in the Snap story and were so interested in Twitters story — because everyones looking for the next one to break through.Whats the next thing thats going to look and feel completely different that disrupts how people interface with the world around them? My guess is that five to seven years from now, there will be at least one company that people will think of in the top five most important enterprises in advertising that simply doesnt exist now.Last month, the Walt Disney Company said that it had reached a deal to buy most of 21st Century Fox, which would fit into its plans to introduce two Netflix-style streaming services and give the company a majority stake in Hulu. (Comcast and Time Warner have the minority stakes.) What do you think?Imagine a massively emboldened Hulu.If Disney decides to put the Fox assets in entertainment and movies into Hulu, and Comcast decides to put Universal and NBC studio assets into Hulu, too, then certainly from a domestic point of view, you end up with a product that looks pretty fantastic if people watch television.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.You could have things like day-after episodes of new drama of the Hulu model and then the entire movie libraries of Universal, Fox, Disney, Pixar and all of the other stuff with it.Then what happens if that same group of people says to the broadcasters of the world: What we have here is a working business model of what the studio system plus the broadcast system can look like in a new world, with a tiered-option model based on some combination of live, day-after, on-demand, paid, ad-funded and so forth, and basically you could slice it whichever way youd like for your market. Weve got the content block and the technology license block so that everyone can build their own castle in all these markets.Disney has BamTech, remember. [Disney has a majority stake in BamTech, the company that built HBO Go in time for the fifth season of Game of Thrones, and will build Disneys new streaming services.]It may not be owned 100 percent by one company, but it could be a new phenomenon that could be a kind of distributed monopoly, which I dont think anyones really thought about.And this could potentially run ads?Because youre using the same underlying systems, you suddenly have a data pool that crosses all of that content, all of those users and potentially all of those markets. People are asking the question about whats the third force? That would probably be the answer.AdvertisementWhats another way that could go?I think if I learned one thing over my career, it is that Newton was right: The objects that are in motion stay in motion, and that motion tends to accelerate, hit plateaus and reaccelerate.Given the asymmetry of certain enterprises in the world, you kind of wonder as to whether or not new Disney, with all of its IP, has in fact become the juiciest peach in the world to be consumed by Apple.If Apple was going to make a one bound and youre serious move into the video content business globally, and the provision of video service business globally, it could make sense. You then have most of Hulu and all of the IP in Pixar, Marvel and all of the other things that Bob Iger has been assembling over the years, and you have ESPN. That wouldnt be a terrible place to start, and they could do it for 30 percent of their market cap.What do you make of Facebooks plans to prioritize meaningful interactions between friends and family while showing less news to its users? You can on one hand take it at face value and say that Facebook is taking a step back to their roots. The other way you could argue this is that Facebook has decided that there is a degree of toxicity which comes from being overtly an economic participant in a news-based value chain, and that the economics of it are not worth the perceived risks of association.The one thing thats kind of disturbing about all of this to me and potentially The New York Times is: Are we moving into a world where the dominant platforms of media consumption are basically getting close to a point where theyre blacklisting the monetization of news?What have you seen that makes you think theyre getting close to that? It seems that there is no huge demand in Googles program commissioning to commission news. I dont see theres a big appetite for Facebook saying, We would like 20 news organizations to provide news bulletin programming for Facebook Watch.We know there are dozens and dozens of news organizations around the world, or at least a dozen or two that include The Times, Reuters, Bloomberg, the BBC and so on, who are, for the most part, the keepers of truth in news and the people who keep the public informed.And it seems odd to me that if you have aspirations to take up a very significant part of the media consumption time of the public that you do not have an overt policy for the dissemination of news and to participate in the funding of news for your audience.A version of this article appears in print on January 29, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: An Ad Executive Known for Prescience Peers Into the Future.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SAPNA MAHESHWARIFEB. 12, 2018
AT&T, one of the nations biggest marketers, has yet to return to YouTube nearly a year after pulling its advertising from the platform because of concerns that it could appear alongside offensive material.The company was among a wave of major marketers who paused their spending on YouTube last March after it was found that ads were appearing on videos promoting hate speech or terrorism and other disturbing content. The Google-owned video service has since introduced a series of changes aimed at limiting the types of videos that can run ads, and most brands have resumed marketing on the platform.But that has not been enough for AT&T, which wants YouTube to get as close to zero tolerance for this issue as possible, Fiona Carter, the companys chief brand officer, said in a recent interview.It became apparent to us as we worked through this that too much of the content our advertising could appear against was not brand safe — it was objectionable by any measure, Ms. Carter said. You really have an epiphany when you see some of that content.AdvertisementShe added, Our findings are that no matter the algorithm or the filters or the formula that you currently apply, nothing beats human review.AdvertisementAT&T believes that its dialogue with YouTube played a role in the platforms announcement last month that humans will manually vet videos from channels that are part of Google Preferred — a designation applied to channels representing the top 5 percent of content on YouTube that helps brands advertise on popular videos.Over the past year, major marketers have been demanding more accountability from Google, Facebook and the rest of the digital advertising ecosystem, as they have come to the conclusion that the same algorithmic tools that allow unprecedented access to consumers can be used to spread misinformation, hate speech and harmful videos that target children. On Monday, Keith Weed, the chief marketing officer of Unilever, called on tech companies to take greater responsibility for what appears on their sites and said that his company would not invest in platforms that do not protect our children or which create division in society and promote anger or hate.Weve been talking about the digital supply chain for several years but what happened last year is it became a societal issue, a people issue, Mr. Weed said in an interview after delivering remarks on eroding trust in tech companies at an industry conference in Palm Desert, Calif.Mr. Weed said that while he would pull dollars from the platforms if something happened which was completely inappropriate for our brands or our business, he wanted to work with the companies to improve their sites.What Im not doing is giving some sort of public ultimatum, he said.Brian Wieser, a media analyst at Pivotal Research, said that marketers were clearly having an influence.If they said nothing then the only thing that would cause the platforms to act is the risk of government regulation, he said.But Unilever, he said, was not taking an especially hard line with the tech companies as far as its advertising budget. Its not like they set a threshold and said companies who dont do this lose their money specifically, he said.AdvertisementUnilever, which owns brands like Ben & Jerrys and Dove, did not pull its marketing dollars from YouTube last year, saying at the time that the number of ads running with objectionable content was proportionally small and that it would use the moment to win new concessions from Google.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Weed reiterated that position on Monday.What Im talking about here is moving the conversation along, he said.Unilever, for example, has been talking with YouTube about implementing more human screening of videos that include children to make sure that they are not being exploited.There is nothing we take more seriously than the trust and safety of our users, customers and partners, and we will continue to work to earn that trust every day, a Google spokesperson said of Mr. Weeds remarks.Even though AT&T hasnt been spending money on YouTube ads in the past year, it has worked closely with the platform to improve its systems and is eager to have its ads again seen by YouTubes huge audience of teen and twentysomething viewers. YouTube has said that its manual reviews of Google Preferred channels would be complete by the end of March.Were very hopeful we can get back onto YouTube, Ms. Carter said. It delivers the scale we want but we had to roll up our sleeves and find that performance elsewhere.AT&T spent more than $1 billion on advertising in the United States last year through September, while Unilever spent $644 million, according to data from Kantar Media. AT&T was the sixth-biggest advertiser in the country during that period, Unilever was No. 16.AT&T also said that it would audit its programmatic ad spending in coming months, as it tries to better understand the process through which technology and automation place its online ads in front of consumers. That realm of advertising has drawn scrutiny from marketers in recent years amid reports that much of their spending, which is difficult to trace, is going to tech companies and agency fees rather than publishers.Ms. Carter said that it would be working with its agency, Omnicoms Hearts & Science, and the firms AdFin and Amino Payments to figure out how its money moves through those systems.AdvertisementI believe that marketers, and to a certain extent agency partners, have not been in control of the way the advertising process is moving, Ms. Carter said. Its incumbent upon us to drive the key issues and shine a light on them and ensure that budgets are being spent in service of the right goals.AT&Ts efforts underscore the strange world that advertisers are navigating online.Five, six, seven years ago, the majority of spend was in TV, print, even outdoor, and you had absolute clarity in where your advertising was appearing but far less data around who you were advertising against, Ms. Carter said. Weve flipped that now.We have incredible data and insights into the people were advertising against, but we no longer are really seeing across the digital ecosystem.A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Offensive Content Drove Big Advertisers Off YouTube. AT&T; Still Isnt Back.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Farhad Manjoo
 

STATE OF THE ART
JAN. 31, 2018
Pretend you are the lead detective on a hit new show, CSI: Terrible Stuff on the Internet. In the first episode, you set up one of those crazy walls plastered with headlines and headshots, looking for hidden connections between everything awful thats been happening online recently.Theres a lot of dark stuff. In one corner, you have the Russian campaign to influence the 2016 presidential election with digital propaganda. In another, a rash of repugnant videos on YouTube, with children being mock-abused, cartoon characters bizarrely committing suicide on the kids channel and a popular vlogger recording a body hanging from a tree.Then theres tech addiction, the rising worry that adults and kids are getting hooked on smartphones and social networks despite our best efforts to resist the constant desire for a fix. And all over the internet, general fakery abounds — there are millions of fake followers on Twitter and Facebook, fake rehab centers being touted on Google and even fake review sites to sell you a mattress.So who is the central villain in this story, the driving force behind much of the chaos and disrepute online?AdvertisementThis isnt that hard. You dont need a crazy wall to figure it out, because the force to blame has been quietly shaping the contours of life online since just about the beginning of life online: Its the advertising business, stupid.AdvertisementAnd if you want to fix much of what ails the internet right now, the ad business would be the perfect perp to handcuff and restrain — and perhaps even reform.Ads are the lifeblood of the internet, the source of funding for just about everything you read, watch and hear online. The digital ad business is in many ways a miracle machine — it corrals and transforms latent attention into real money that pays for many truly useful inventions, from search to instant translation to video hosting to global mapping.But the online ad machine is also a vast, opaque and dizzyingly complex contraption with underappreciated capacity for misuse — one that collects and constantly profiles data about our behavior, creates incentives to monetize our most private desires and frequently unleashes loopholes that the shadiest of people are only too happy to exploit.And for all its power, the digital ad business has long been under-regulated and under-policed, both by the companies that run it and by the worlds governments. In the United States, the industry has been almost untouched by oversight, even though it forms the primary revenue stream of two of the planets most valuable companies, Google and Facebook.In the early days of online media, the choice was essentially made — give it away for free, and advertising would produce the revenue, said Randall Rothenberg, the chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade association that represents companies in the digital ad business. A lot of the things we see now flow out from that decision.Mr. Rothenbergs organization has long pushed for stronger standards for online advertising. In a speech last year, he implored the industry to take civic responsibility for our effect on the world. But he conceded the business was growing and changing too quickly for many to comprehend its excesses and externalities — let alone to fix them.Technology has largely been outpacing the ability of individual companies to understand what is actually going on, he said. Theres really an unregulated stock market effect to the whole thing.AdvertisementFacebook, which reported its earnings on Wednesday, said its advertising principles hold that ads should be safe and civil. It defended the targeted ad businesss overall value, arguing that digital advertising connects people to products and services from small businesses and creates jobs and helps the economy.The company also pointed to several steps it had taken recently. Weve tightened our ad policies, hired more ad reviewers, and created a new team to help detect and prevent abuses, said Rob Goldman, Facebooks vice president of advertising. Were also testing a tool that will bring more transparency to ads running on our platform. We know there is more work to do, but our goal is to keep people safe.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A spokesman for Google, whose parent company, Alphabet, reports earnings on Thursday, said it was constantly policing its ad system, pointing out recent steps it has taken to address problems arising from the ad business, including several changes to YouTube.The role of the ad business in much of whats terrible online was highlighted in a recent report by two think tanks, New America and Harvards Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy.The central problem of disinformation corrupting American political culture is not Russian spies or a particular social media platform, two researchers, Dipayan Ghosh and Ben Scott, wrote in the report, titled Digital Deceit. The central problem is that the entire industry is built to leverage sophisticated technology to aggregate user attention and sell advertising.The report chronicles just how efficient the online ad business has become at profiling, targeting, and persuading people. Thats good news for the companies that want to market to you — as the online ad machine gets better, marketing gets more efficient and effective, letting companies understand and influence consumer sentiment at a huge scale for little money.But the same cheap and effective persuasion machine is also available to anyone with nefarious ends. The Internet Research Agency, the  troll group at the center of Russian efforts to influence American politics, spent $46,000 on Facebook ads before the 2016 election. Thats not very much — Hillary Clintons and Donald J. Trumps campaigns spent tens of millions online. And yet the Russian campaign seems to have had enormous reach; Facebook has said the I.R.A.s messages — both its ads and its unpaid posts — were seen by nearly 150 million Americans.How the I.R.A. achieved this mass reach likely has something to do with the dynamics of the ad business, which lets advertisers run many experimental posts to hone their messages, and tends to reward posts that spark outrage and engagement — exactly the sort that the Russians were pushing.You cant have it both ways, Mr. Scott said. Either you have a brilliant technology that permits microtargeting to exactly the people you want to influence at exactly the right time with exactly the right message — or youre only reaching a small number of people and therefore it couldnt be influential.AdvertisementThe consequences of the ad business dont end at foreign propaganda. Consider all the nutty content recently found on YouTube Kids — not just the child-exploitation clips but also videos that seem to be created in whole or in part by algorithms that are mining the system for whats popular, then creating endless variations.Why would anyone do such a thing? For the ad money. One producer of videos that show antics including his children being scared by clowns told BuzzFeed that he had made more than $100,000 in two months from ads on his videos.YouTube, which is owned by Google, has since pulled down thousands of such disturbing videos; the company said late last year that it was hiring numerous moderators to police the platform. It also tightened the rules for which producers can make money from its ad system.Facebook, too, has made several recent fixes. The company has built a new tool — being tested in Canada and slated to be rolled out more widely this year — that lets people see the different ads being placed by political pages, a move meant to address I.R.A.-like influence campaigns. It has also fixed holes that allowed advertisers to target campaigns by race and religion. And it recently unveiled a new version of its News Feed that is meant to cut down on passively scrolling through posts — part of Mark Zuckerbergs professed effort to improve the network even, he has said, at the cost of advertising revenue.The tinkering continued on Tuesday, when Facebook also said it would ban ads promoting crypto currency schemes, some of which have fallen into scammy territory.Yet these are all piecemeal efforts. They dont address the underlying logic of the ad business, which produces endless incentives for gaming the system in ways that Google and Facebook discover often only after the fact. Mr. Rothenberg said this was how regulating advertising was likely to go — a lot of fixes resembling Whac-a-Mole.Of course, there is the government. You could imagine some regulator imposing stricter standards for who has access to the online ad system, who makes money from it, how it uses private information and how transparent tech companies must be about it all. But that also seems unlikely; the Honest Ads Act, a proposal to regulate online political ads, has gone nowhere in Congress.One final note: In 2015, Timothy D. Cook, Apples chief executive, warned about the dangers of the online ad business, especially its inherent threat to privacy. I wrote a column in which I took Mr. Cook to task — I argued that he had not acknowledged how ad-supported services improved his own companys devices.AdvertisementI stand by that view, but now I also regret dismissing his warning so cavalierly. Socially, politically and culturally, the online ad business is far more dangerous than I appreciated. Mr. Cook was right, and we should have listened to him.Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo.A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Villain Dangerous to Ignore: Online Ads.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported bySketchbookAn illustrated account of the depths to which Norman Mailer once sank in order to settle his debts.By Edward SorelEdward Sorel, a caricaturist and muralist, is the author and illustrator of Mary Astors Purple Diary.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySergio García Sánchez pays visual homage to Lewis Carrolls classic tale.By Sergio Garcia SanchezSergio García Sánchez, a cartoonist, illustrator and professor at the University of Granada, is a co-author, with Nadja Spiegelman, of the graphic novel Lost in NYC: A Subway Adventure.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter, and sync your calendar with curated literary events.Advertisement

 Eric Asimov
 

THE POUR
FEB. 15, 2018
BORDEAUX, France — Bordeaux, the region, is unrivaled historically as the greatest, most prodigious producer of fine wine in the world.Bordeaux, the port city on the Garonne river, has played a crucial role as the center of the wine trade. Historically, though, it has lacked charm and lovability, and paradoxically, beyond its commercial ties, Bordeaux has had little connection with the wine producers in the growing regions that define the region and practically surround the city.But an ambitious wine museum that opened in the city of Bordeaux on the west bank of the river in 2016 is working to change that. While capturing the worldwide culture of wine in a modern, immersive, multimedia style, La Cité du Vin hopes to serve as a critical link between the urban center of the wine trade and the myriad producers who have historically stood apart.Simply as a cultural center, the City of Wine succeeds brilliantly in many ways. As a symbol, the curvaceous, contemporary building designed by XTU, a Parisian architecture firm, swirls up from the riverside not unlike the Guggenheim Museum flowing upward on staid Fifth Avenue. As a statement, it says that hidebound, conservative Bordeaux is no more.AdvertisementSituated between the districts of Chartrons, the historic center of the wine trade, and Bacalan, a docks and manufacturing area, La Cité anchors a growing tourist hub, which includes a huge, concrete German bunker that once housed U-boats during the Nazi occupation and is now being transformed into an underground arts center.AdvertisementThe few wine museums I have visited around the world have never quite fired the imagination. The more ambitious the museum, the more transparently promotional it is for a particular region, a certain producer or the benefits of wine. The most successful have been the most local, which have simply presented artifacts without forced narratives.But La Cité consciously avoids the outright promotion and celebration of Bordeaux. Instead, it takes an ecumenical approach, looking at the scope of wine culture worldwide and letting history — and the people who make the wines — speak largely for themselves.The challenge was to tell ourselves, Were not promoting wine, were promoting wine culture, said Sylvie Cazes, who was instrumental in pushing the Cité du Vin project forward both as a member of the Bordeaux City Council from 2008 to 2014, and as part of an important Bordeaux wine family that owns Château Lynch-Bages, among other properties.Vinexpo Bordeaux, a vast wine trade exposition held every two years, was a particular inspiration, she said.Vinexpo works because all the wines of the world take part, Ms. Cazes said. That made it a success.La Cité encompasses 10 levels, including a wine bar, a retail shop, exhibition spaces, areas for special tastings, a theater (named for Thomas Jefferson) and, on the top floor, a panoramic restaurant with gorgeous views of the city.But at its heart is a permanent exhibition of 19 themed spaces that provide an overview of the worlds vineyards, the development of domesticated grapevines, the intricacies of how wine is made, the nuances of tasting and drinking it, and historical presentations on transporting wine and enjoying it dating from 6000 B.C.AdvertisementUltimately, it poses the existential question of why humans have gone to such extreme efforts to create a beverage that is not essential to existence.Upon arrival, visitors are issued a companion du voyage, individual electronic guides about the size of cellphones that connect directly with each stop along the tour, explaining in eight languages exactly what you are looking at and how to interact with it. From there, you are on your own, free to wander among the exhibits at your own pace, in your own fashion.You might begin with a dizzying virtual helicopter tour of the worlds vineyards, a sweeping overview that spans the globe in about 15 minutes on three big, curved screens. Or you could watch winemakers discussing their vineyards, from the famous, like Dominique Lafon in Meursault Perrières, one of the great sources of white Burgundy, to a monsignor at Alaverdi Monastery Wine Cellar in the country of Georgia, one of the cradles of wine civilization, where techniques have changed little over centuries.The videos are so sharp that at one point I found I could not pay attention to the winemaker Wilhelm Haag of Fritz Haag, a fine riesling producer in the Mosel region of Germany, because the backdrop — the astoundingly steep Juffer Sonnenuhr vineyard — distracted me with its beauty.Displays explain how vines and grapes were domesticated, how they occupied exalted mythological positions within ancient societies and how vines adapt to wildly different terrains.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Atmospheric enhancements penetrate almost unconsciously as you examine the exhibit: birds singing, thunder, the sound of a helicopter. Later, while learning about the use of barrels and how wine evolves in them over time, I suddenly became aware that I was smelling oak, used in the construction of the display.Not all the exhibits are so straightforwardly historic. A buffet table offers the opportunity for indulging in the sensory experience of wine tasting, offering surprisingly effective examples of different aromas and textures, and the opportunity to test your nose if so inclined.I especially enjoyed an animated presentation of how wine merchants through the ages challenged themselves over millenniums to transport wine overseas to customers who craved it. Its not strictly realistic, as one character chides a god: Youre all the same. You have eternity but no patience.The entire visit can take about two hours to complete, by which time you are ready for the glass of wine included with admission.The permanent exhibition is geared toward anyone who wants to learn more about wine. La Cité also puts on two temporary exhibits a year, in conjunction with other wine regions, which go deeply into particular subjects like wine and art, or wine and music.AdvertisementIn its first year, Ms. Cazes said, 445,000 visitors came to the museum, which far surpassed initial projections.One particularly hopeful sign for La Cité is that the city of Bordeaux is now attracting more visitors. Once drab and dirty, with few interesting places to visit or eat, Bordeaux has undergone a transformation in the last 15 years.The facades of its 18th- and 19th-century architecture, once gray with filth, are now sparkling. An extensive new tram system offers an easy-to-use mass transit network, and the narrow streets of the old city are bustling with busy restaurants and wine bars. In truth, many of the wine bars are so hip that its much easier to find natural wines than it is to get a bottle of good, old Bordeaux.As for whether La Cité can help to bridge the divide between the city and its surrounding wine industry, tourism will play a central role in whether it succeeds. The museum will serve as a point of departure for tours of the Médoc, the historic area encompassing the famous areas of Margaux, St.-Julien and Pauillac. Some will go by bus. Others will leave by boat from La Cité, heading up the Garonne to the Gironde Estuary.Tourism has not historically been encouraged in Bordeaux estates, Ms. Cazes said. Cellars were not equipped for visits and, she said, merchants in Bordeaux were concerned that visitors would buy wine directly from the producers rather than through their networks.Indeed, the Bordeaux tourist board has a desk within La Cité, she said, and is eager to sell tickets for tours.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: A Museum Connects Two Bordeaux.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Current Events Conversation By                     
THE LEARNING NETWORK

FEB. 8, 2018
It was a busy week of commenting on our site, as this lengthy collection of favorite responses to our recent writing prompts will show.Wilmington, N.C., we love hearing from your students each week. As regular contributors, if you have any feedback, or would like to suggest particular Times articles we should choose for our prompts, please let us know in the comments. (Actually, that goes for anyone reading this!)This week we also want to recognize a new group from Maine, and let old favorite programs like YC-CLIP know that its good to see your students back on the site.Enjoy!Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear just as they were originally submitted.Advertisement_________We thought the answer to our Student Opinion prompt Should Schools Teach You How to Be Happy? would likely be an enthusiastic yes! — but responses were mixed.AdvertisementRiley Thibault from Maine thought such a class would be unnecessary:I think the school should offer resources for students to feel happy but not offer classes like Yale is. I think the school should stick to academics and not turn classes into a rehab centers. I would be O.K. with if the school were to offer a program in which students were taught to make others happy. I think this way because you come to school to learn not feel better that what hospitals are for. With saying that, I do think schools should offer resources and help for those feeling unhappy.Immanuel Libby from Maine disagreed:I think that, since happiness is different for different people, it will be difficult to teach, and the material taught will not be perfect for every specific situation … [but] as long as it works and people are becoming happier, I think its a fantastic idea that will help the stress of college life, especially at a school like Yale.Esther Ofielu from Maine sees the benefits of learning about positive psychology:I would not want my school to offer this class. I dont think the kids in my high school would take it seriously. They would probably just be on their phones the entire time. However, I do think schools should at least offer a class on happiness, maybe not on how to get it. But rather on how studies show others feel happiness. I think this class would be better as a psychology class on happiness.Sophia Elliopulos from Maine believes a class like this could help students manage their stress:I think I would like to have a class like this because I get so wrapped up in the pressure to do well in school that I sometimes put my happiness to the side and only focus on school. I think if my school had this class it would actually improve academics because when Im stressed I will do worse than if I am calm about it. I think this class should be graded but only for effort. It would be kind of counterproductive if you were getting stressed about a class that teaches you how to not be stressed.But Emma H. from Maine suggested that everyone needs to find happiness on her own:After reading this article and gathering my thoughts I think that a course that teaches students how to be happy is unnecessary. I think it is nice to offer the class to colleges that are known to high stress levels and expectations, however I do not think the class will help in the long run and it may just be a temporary relief for student workload … I think it is important to find happiness and a positive life style on your own as a way to grow as a person instead of following advice given from psychologists.Faith Beaulieu from Saco agreed:I do not think that happiness should be graded at all. Though the class is a good idea, I still do not believe happiness can simply be taught. Happiness comes to people in different ways, because were all so different. Nonetheless, the course seems to be helping a lot of people and I do support that.However, Maryam Pate from Falls Church, Va., argued that a class on happiness could be a positive step toward solving mental health problems:Yales class on happiness brilliantly addresses a crisis happening in educational institutions nationwide. Whether it is in high school or college, metal health experiences follow students into adulthood, and create habits that will play a role in defining ones success.Dr. Santos referenced [numbness] as a feeling by many students, and rightfully so, because often times it may not be depression that consumes students, but rather a lack of happiness or pathways to it. I would encourage educational institutions, including my own, to offer a class on happiness and gratified living, that can shape overall moods on campus, and put graduates on a path for healthy success. A class on happiness should be graded, so that students progress can be kept and students can see a conscious growth within themselves through self-reflection.For me, a form of self-reflection is gratitude. I have taken up remembering what it is that makes me happy to take me out of stressful situations and find that it is little skills like that, that will take me far._________Did you watch Super Bowl LII? While the majority of commenters — who predicted a Patriots win — may have been disappointed in the game, Brook Myers from King of Prussia was ecstatic:1.) I looked forward to the game2.) I hoped and got what I wished for, THE EAGLES WON!3.) #9: FolesThis year I was especially excited for the Super Bowl because the Eagles were playing and they were the team I was rooting for.I love this time of year because there are great commercials, good food, and a game you can yell your head off about.And Charles from Atlanta enjoyed the whole spectacle:The Super Bowl is known for the memorable commercials and halftime show, but this year the main attraction was the thrilling showdown between the Philadelphia Eagles and New England Patriots. Which was your favorite? Was it the hilarious rap battle between Peter Dinklage and Morgan Freeman, or the halftime show featuring JT?Super Bowl LII was one that will go down in history. On Feb. 4, 2018 at U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Nick Foles (Eagles Quarterback) became the second player to ever start the season as a backup, and win the Super Bowl as a starter. Who was the first player to do it? Tom Brady, of course.The Eagles outlasted the Patriots 41-33 in a nail-biter to land the Eagles their first ever Super Bowl. However, the M.V.P. of the game mightve been Justin Timberlake when he performed I Would Die 4 U by Prince to honor him since Prince is from Minneapolis._________Our Picture Prompt A Feel-Good Room elicited wonderful descriptions about the details that can make a room feel like ones own.JJ from Northeast can finally breathe after a room redo:After a break-up and many years of neglecting my space, I finally gave it a fresh rehaul. And I decided to go minimalist. All those little knick-knacks that was supposed to recall good memories? Gone. All the sticks of furniture that were laden with history (even good history) … gone. All the doodads that might, just might, be useful at some point … also gone.A friend suggested I just start creating a board of images I loved. And I learned that I really do have a certain feel I really love, certain colors and hues Im drawn to, but it was not being reflected in my space. So now, with a new pared down look with only colors and textures I love — I find this is my feel good room. There isnt as much personal junk — instead, the space is a strong statement of style I have an affinity and an affection for. It leaves a lighter footprint. I feel free, unshackled from possessions. I can finally breathe.Ian Derushia from Wilmington, N.C., is proud of his personalized space:My room, no not room, my getaway, is one of my most prized possessions. Well my parents possessions. My room is made up of everything that is a part of me. Whether it be my salt rock lamp, or my eucalyptus pillow spray and silk pillows. I balanced out bulky shelves with a small Polaroid string. The lights I strung around the perimeter of my ceiling remind me of summer nights on the lawn with my mom in Raleigh as we would watch for shooting stars and the different hues if fireworks on the Fourth of July. I believe that I styled my bedroom exactly to fit me. My bed spread is like that of a hotels comforter. Reminding me of family vacations to florida or georgia or oregon. My color palette (Teal, wood, and white accent) maybe subliminally represent my longing to be anywhere on the water. The hammock could represent my swing-easy attitude, and the sondbar system: my love for movies.Hannah from Wilmington chose things herself:I recently, with the help of my parents, completely redid my room. Nothing is remotely similar than it was before and I absolutely love it. My room now completely reflects who I and creates a sanctuary all for myself. From my Beatles poster to my waterfall fish tank, its all genuinely me. The colors I chose myself, I finally have a plant of my own and continue to add to my haven every day. My painting of Venice along with my outline of the world reflects my unmatched urge to travel as far as I can. Nothing in here isnt a part of who I am and I couldnt have it any other way.James C from North Carolina says his room supports his well-being:I have designed my room to support my well being by keeping it fun with small things. I have a small smiley face sticker on the wall from when I went to the orthodontist and first got my braces next to my bed, and an Eddie Van Halen poster on my wall. The Eddie Van Halen poster makes me happy like how I feel when I listen to his music. This is all I really need or want to have on my walls … I put nostalgic items like birthday cards from my grandparents, or my parents on my dresser to make it look nicer. All of the things in my room make it my room, and help me relax._________In response to the Student Opinion question, Are You a Perfectionist?, students told us about their personal struggles with the feeling of needing to be exceptional, and shared some ways they managed that need:Victoria Jackson from Wilmington, N.C., sets high standards for herself, but often to her own detriment:Ive been struggling with perfectionism for almost all my life. Ive naturally always gotten good grades and at first I never really thought about it, but over time I started to become obsessive with the amount of studying I put in and the outcome of my work. I definitely put pressure on myself and set extremely high standards.Since last year Ive known that I wanted to be a neurologist. I began to research the career even more and set the goal of getting amazing grades for the rest of high school so I can get into a credited college and later on medical school, to prepare myself for the rest of my career and life. So, me being my overachieving self, Ive put in a lot of work into my schoolwork and make sure its perfect and worthy of a good grade. I often work myself too hard to the point where I have a mental breakdown.Recently my english teacher gave us an assignment of choosing one word wed like to represent the person we want to become this year. I want to become less of a perfectionist (but still reaching most of my goals) and become less stressed and confident in my abilities, so I chose the word faith. Since I started the assignment, Ive noticed a tremendous change and already see my extreme perfectionist tendencies vanishing. I learned the hard way that being a perfectionist can be beneficial and build you up, like getting good grades, but can also tear you down and consume you in a sea of stress.Reagan OShea from Boston, Ma., similarly described the mental and emotional toll of perfectionism:Growing up in a world in which the pressure to succeed and stand out is at its peak, it is difficult to not fall victim to being a perfectionist. Though being a perfectionist can be a positive attribute, I for one feel as though it is an exhausting attribute that most often leads to disappointment. No matter how well a perfectionist does, their performance never seems to be good enough. As a perfectionist, I hold very high standards and goals for myself, and when I fail to meet those standards, the disappointment that I feel is incredibly overwhelming.… What people fail to understand is that such achievements do not come without a substantial cost: the overwhelming burden that one feels through many stages of life is sometimes unfathomable.Catherine Smer from Wilmington, N.C., however, has let go of the idea of being perfect:No, I am not a perfectionist at all. I dont believe that any one thing can be truly perfect. However I do believe in trying my best. I know that whatever I do at my age cant be perfect but as long as I have given it the best that I have got then I dont stress over it. I value the opinions of my family, teachers, and classmates, they all influence how good or bad my work is, but the only opinion that matters the most when counts is my own. Dont get me wrong, I try hard in school and sports and I want a good future for myself, but setting standards for everything as high as perfect can cause stress and anxiety that I dont need.Monalene Delo from Wilmington, N.C., thinks social media adds to the many young peoples anxiety:Often on social media we find our selves scrolling through our feed wishing we had the life that our friend had, or that we had this amount of likes or Wow, her life must be perfect! Social media has provided a mask to our actual lives that we are living … Sometimes we just need to remind ourselves that people arent living the perfect life that we think they are and that were doing the best we can.And, like many other students, Emily Lane Player from Hoggard High School, felt pressure from her family to be successful:I would not label myself as a perfectionist, I always try to do my best and go with the flow. However, I do strive to work hard and get good grades, but I know if I get one B it wont be the end of the world. I try to find a balance between schoolwork and just being a teenager.My dad is a lot like me in this way, were both very type B. However, my sister is the total opposite. She is the definition of a perfectionist. She doesnt just strive for As, she strives for A+s, in classes 2-3 grades above her grade level, and if she doesnt meet her goal she constantly beats herself up about it. On top of this, she dances for 4-5 hours a day. She has a really hard time letting go of things if they arent absolutely perfect. She is a constant stress-ball, like my mom.My mom is a perfectionist as well, as she projects this onto me with her high expectations. Often, I feel theyre way too high, and I just cant do enough to please her. Whenever I do accomplish something Im proud of, like getting an A on a really hard test, I rarely rewarded because thats just whats expected of me. She often treats me how she would treat herself, and Im not a perfectionist so her standards seem impossible.Seeing the advantages and disadvantages of perfectionism, Juliet Hoven from Nazareth, Pa., suggested some strategies for managing it:Because of my perfectionism, I do not take many breaks. I always seem to be running somewhere or spending an obsessive amount of time improving something that does not necessarily need to be perfect. As a student, I study for long periods of time and do a lot of homework. In fact, I do not socialize as much because my standards push me to exceed. To manage the muddle my high standards create, I have tried to create a schedule to manage my time and make myself available for what I enjoy doing, and for my grades and community. I also make different study methods for my own benefit. When I get stressed or overwhelmed, I try to relax and take a break such as listening to music or watch a quick TV show. Overall, high standards can be both beneficial and detrimental._________Some of our best-written commments this week came in response to the Picture Prompt Murals, which asked students whether art can be a form of resistance. Commenters responded passionately and eloquently, giving examples from history.Eve Krupcheck from Massachusetts believes arts power lies in its ability to unite people:Liberty leading the people, the murals painted on the Berlin wall, and the womens march logo. All these images are more than just murals and paintings.Art unites people under a common image. One painting or one image can be the face of a revolution or what the movement is remembered by. For example the Everyone is welcome here which can be seen around America in storefront windows in other places. It is what is spread and seen by people. Or look at Liberty leading the people the image we all associate with the French Revolution. Art gives one unforgettable image for a moment to be remembered by. Watching history throughout the years it is clear that art mirrors the way people feel. Take the dada art movement for example. People were disillusioned after WWII and it was the new types of art that showed that. Art is peoples true feelings and anger used productively to make something creative and inspirational.Art can unite and build support. Art shows how people feel. Art is not just paint on wall and canvases. Art is what begins the revolution.Beck RT from Massachusetts thinks its accessibility is what makes it so influential:I believe that art can be an act of resistance. Art can be created in an abundance of forms and is given to everyone to access, no matter who you are or what your background. By creating art, it gives the creator as well as others the ability to emote and show opinion through these images. I believe in this ideal because of how widespread art is and how many forms that it may take.Similarly, Prashamsha Rayamajhi from Danvers, Mass., wrote passionately about the history of political art:I do think that art can be an effective method of resistance — and I believe so because art has been one of the most profound factors in shaping society as we know it.Any major change in history came with a change in the arts. For example, the Renaissance cam with rebirth of culture — and art is what led us out of the darkness of the Middle Ages into the intellectual sophistication of the Renaissance. Art belongs to the people; it always has. We saw that with the birth of hip-hop as a form resistance to an unjust government.In the history of humans, there has always been art as a constant. It has shaped any major event that has happened — political cartoons, a form of art, has managed to overwhelmingly affect the course of wars and politics. Art has always been about the people, and it can be a very effective method to bring about change and resistance. Art is what makes political things or heavy subjects that arent really talked about, a major topic in popular culture.Art is what makes us human, and in cases like the Holocaust where the government tried to entirely erase a groups humanity, the simple existence of art can be a form of resistance.Ann Nguyen from Massachusetts says that art stimulates empathy:Art can be an act of resistance. Throughout history, ordinary people have turned to art for political expression and social defiance of standards in their government, nation, and/or society.One notable movement that required art was the Civil Rights Movement, which sparked in the 1960s. While direct involvement in protests and lawsuits moved forward the goal of racial equality for black citizens, art captured the deep and complex themes and emotions associated with the oppressed minority. Viewers could empathize with the subjects in paintings and murals, which demonstrate pain and distress. For example, Norman Rockwells 1964 painting Rockwell & Race depicts violence against civil rights workers, an unfair issue in America that requires social change.Ava Daly from Danvers High School pointed out how it can act as a microphone to marginalized voices:Although some may say that art is a luxury nowadays, with all the bad that is going on in the world, I think that art is a way that we can make a change. When we feel like we are losing our voices, art can speak for us, and make public the change that we want to see.And Zac Gill from Wilmington, N.C., demonstrated how art can uniquely express the raw emotion of resistance:I personally think the greatest art comes from those resisting. Those in a dire time of need have the most to express. They can completely fill their art with the purest emotion possible. I am a very strong believer that art is an amazing way to vent and allow your audience to almost empathize with whatever it is youre going through.An example of resistance in our nations past can be shown through many of the famous poet Langston Hughes poems. Hughes wrote from the perspective of a black man in a nation against him and the raw emotion displayed in his poetry puts you there. Hughes alone shows how beneficial resistance can be within art.Not all students were convinced that art could be a form of resistance, though. As Bronwyn Williams from Wilmington, N.C., said:As a student artist, naturally, I was drawn to this topic. As someone who believes that you should work to see a change, naturally, I was drawn away from this topic.I mean, no offense, but come on. Nothings going to change if we just sit around making art that expresses our unease with our situations. I can draw as many political works as I want, nothing is going to change my situation unless I try to improve it for myself.While yes, maybe your art can help shift the mind of someone who is already slightly partial to your views and ideals, your art isnt going to save the world or have as big of an impact as you think unless you have influence … If making pretty pictures and clothing is all youre doing in the hopes of a societal reform, Im afraid were not living on the same planet. I say yes, do continue to create art maybe for the comfort of others who find solace in your work, but know that its rather optimistic to think that the change you want lies within the creative works of yourself or others._________After Lindy West, an author and contributing Opinion writer, wrote about giving up Twitter to preserve her mental health, we wanted to know: Would You Quit Social Media? We received responses from those who had, those who thought they could — and those who never would.Yamelly Taveras from Rhode Island has tried quitting social media before:I deleted my twitter account in November because of all the constant negativity and anxiety I would get over scrolling through my feed. The whole idea about social media is a great concept, but there are a lot of things that make it very unappealing.I noticed that social media has really become a self obsorbed realm of eye candy and feeds all of our insecurities. Or, on the other end, a place where people can spew their hate for the world to see and comment on with their own idiotic opinions.I spent only a month away and realized how much time I allowed it to consume my life. I had to fill my time with more productive things and it honestly felt so good. I currently co-run my churchs young adult Instagram page so I need to be on social media for that reason, but other than that, getting rid of it for good would be no problem to me.Renee Joynes from Wilmington, N.C., thinks it could be a good idea:I have thought about giving my social media up once before and now with lent coming up my friend was talking about how she is going to give up her social media and I thought that was a very good idea and something that I would want to do.I feel like in life we often dont believe in ourselves so we dont even try, but I think it is important to give up social media or even just take a break from it because we often dont realize what we are missing until we have a different perspective. Also since my generation has basically grown up with social media we dont know how life would be without it, so why not give it a try. Mohammed3D from YC CLIP argued that getting off his favorite apps could actually hurt his friendships:I would never consider to quit any of the social media because I want to stay in touch with my old friends and know about their lifestyle, so you feel like you are close to them even if they are living in a different country. I have never have conflict with social media. Instead I enjoy using social media because you get to know about your friends, what he have done whole week, also what is going on the Earth.And when Katharine from Rhode Island was challenged to do so by her teacher, she gained a whole new perspective:I think the best thing one can do is find a balance, where you reap the good things that come with social media, while maintaining a distance, so one doesnt become addicted or find oneself fully entrenched in a Twitter war.In the spirit of the article, my teacher challenged us to quit social media for a day, and found myself doing more chores, something I usually wouldnt have time for. However, I think this indicates my failure to find the balance between productivity and pleasure.Sydney Knowles from Roswell, Ga., sees the benefits and drawbacks of using Twitter:I am a regular Twitter user, as well as using Instagram, Facebook, Tumblr, Snapchat, and other sites. I think that I could give up social media for a short period of time, perhaps a month, and I would benefit from it. Without social media I would have much more time on my hands, and the amount of negative news I consume would decrease. I dont think that I would want to give up social media permanently though, because it is a free tool at my disposal, whether I use it for putting myself out there, finding funny stories, sharing laughs with my friends, or anything else.As an aspiring journalist, I know that having a social media presence will be important, if not essential to my career. Even though it may include fighting off trolls and managing threats, it will be worth it to have immediate access to news and a large platform to promote myself on.Presley Church from Boulder, Colo. also uses social media to advance their career:Though I was long opposed to using social media platforms, I dont think I will ever get rid of them now that I am involved. I have experienced first hand the whole other level of friendship and social involvement you miss out on without these platforms, especially snapchat at my age.Not only is social media important socially, but I believe that I will need it professionally. I want to work in the fashion industry, which is heavily promoted via imagery. Social media platforms are how I promote my personal brand, and how the fashion industry communicates with its followers. The benefits of giving up social media are not worth the community and professional-aid I would be losing.MeenSeo Kim from Seoul strives for a healthy balance with social media use:I use Facebook and Instagram regularly but 5 years ago, I considered to give up these social media platform and I actually did it for a short time. The reason was I spent so much time on it. Now I use it but only 30 minutes a day... I look up some fun stuff and share good information with my friends. How could I changed? The biggest difference from 5 years ago and now is I dont care so much friendship in there. I post things whenever I love to, I reply to my friend who lives overseas.Social media enhances quality of life if you can moderate but if you cant control yourself, its better you to quit social media. Social media can be part of your life, not everything.I think I will need social media for some time for my career because I want to work in organizations relatedwithwomens rights in the future. I guess social media would provide many data and many peoples real experience._________Students responded to our Student Opinion question What Do You Collect? with all sorts of interesting choices, from coins to stuffed animals, rocks, records, mugs, video games, postcards and more.Inspired by family members, Rosser Baxley from Wilmington, N.C., has amassed a collection of 300 vinyl records:I may not be a postcard collector myself but one thing that is for sure is that I love vinyl records.When I buy vinyl I dont buy online. There is nothing like feeling the record and looking at the art within, its beautiful.I guess you could say that I cheated; but heres how I acquired around 300 records. My great-aunts son died and he left behind precious records like sly and the family stone, The Beatles, The Allman Brothers Band, and the Grateful Dead.Bronwyn Williams from Wilmington, N.C., didnt set out to create a collection, but what is it if not a collection? she asks:This wasnt intentional, really, it wasnt. Naturally, however, if you really like something youre going to want more of it, right?What am I talking about? Video games. Ive been obsessed with the things since I was a little kid in pre-school. I remember my first Nintendo DS, it was a cute pastel pink and I loved it until it couldnt handle all the Hersheys Kisses wrappers I shoved into the cartridge slot so my family wouldnt know that I ate all that candy in one night.Back on track, just looking to my left I realize that I might have a problem. Stacks of games upon games, most of which I dont even have the time to beat or replay (I would kill for an hour alone with Ocarina of Time or Majoras Mask), and yet I want more. As soon as I hear about the next new release, I want it so bad. I heard about the new Xenoblade and I wanted it but I wasnt even a third of the way through the first Chronicles. And thats how they stack up.I never thought of it as a collection up until now and its a weird way to think about it, but what is it if not a collection? Collectors themselves kinda freak me out. Like, dont get me wrong, theyre not malicious, but as much as I love video games, I would definitely never shell out upward of $26,000 for an authentic 1990 Nintendo World Championship cartridge. If it makes you happy though and you dont neglect your health in favor of obsession, go for it!Grant Holland from Wilmington, N.C., inherited his coin collection and its special memories:My grandparents started a coin collection back in 1999 saving every quarter from each state and placed it into a coin collection book. My grandparents were not able to finish the collection, so I decided to finish it. Now I have a coin collection of every state dating back to a Delaware coin made in 1787 to the final coin made in Hawaii in 1959.Now, I may not have an exotic collection, but it is a collection that has a valuable meaning behind it. Every time I look at the collection it reminds me of my grandparents.Though not a collector herself, Leah Schwagerl from Wilmington, N.C., has seen from firsthand experience how collections sustain cultures:(part 1) I dont collect anything, yet, maybe its because Im not passionate or fascinated by any one particular materialistic thing. Or maybe its because I dont like the look of clutter (an image Ive associated with collectors since watching American Pickers). I feel like collectors are attracted to certain collection items thanks to past memories.(part 2) I havent picked my dads brain about it, but maybe thats why his face lights up when he finds an especially old and unique quarter or a book written in the 19th century about historic forts. Most importantly, at the core of collection is culture. Clubs made of collectors exist because they are on the search for culture.Jen Nguyen from Wilmington, N.C., thinks collections can also create bonding experiences:Together, my family collects mugs from different places weve been to. We tend to travel a lot, with or without each other and we like to collect the mugs as reminders as to where weve been and what weve experienced.Its always exciting when someone comes back from a place for a long time and gets to place the new mug in the cupboard and tell stories about it at the dinner table. For instance, this summer I went to a camp in a different state and I got to put my own mug in the cupboard for the first time. Getting to tell my family about the exciting things I experienced alone was exhilarating because it was something Ive been looking forward to for a while.Huberney4D from YC CLIP started his collection at age 9, when he first came to the United States:The first time I came to the United States at the age of 9 years old. I felt amazed by the 25¢ coins (Quarters) because they were completely different from what I knew of coins.Back in my country all coins where the same. They were uniform with no variety. When I first purchase in a store and got my change I noticed that my two quarters were different from each other .They have different image carve in the coin follow by a different state name of the fifty that forms the USA. I just had acknowledged not every coin was the same. It were different since that day I start collecting the quarters from every state and date. I get to collect more than 70 coins, I was very proud of my collection.And Brooke from Wilmington made the connection between collecting material items and nostalgia:The reason why I collect things is so I can remember. There are so many things that occur day to day and it can be hard to remember every little thing that has transpired in our lives. Collections allow people to reminisce past events or memories that are significant to them. They bring people back to the moments that shaped them.My most sentimental collection is definitely my postcard collection. Whenever I go to a new place I try to find a postcard from the area that I know will remind me of the moments and adventures that occurred. Every few months Ill come across my box of postcards and Ill dive into all of the memories. Feelings of joy and bliss rush through my mind every single time as Im reminded of all the little wonderful moments. I think everyone should have a collection of some sort._________When it comes to Real Friends vs. Facebook Friends, students were unanimous in their agreement that its better to connect with people in person than online.Sydney Durner from Wilmington, N.C., wrote:Nothing can beat the bond of a real person that you can actually see in person and communicate in real time. Although, the internet and apps like Snapchat have made my relationships stronger with people I dont talk to often or get to see everyday, hanging out with them is much different. Being able to hear their voice, laugh with them, share the same meals and hug them is so much better than any type of phone call or text. It means so much more to you and the other person when you can be in each others presence.Isabel from Atlanta gave some examples to support her opinion:People can get so caught up with virtual friends, they forget who is actually there for them. Facebook friends will leave comments on your posts when your sick. Real friends will visit you, and make sure you are O.K. … A text saying miss you will never compare to how you feel after seeing your best friend for the first time in months. A hug is better than an emoji. Laughing all night together wins against a phone call.Anna Y from Greenwood Village, Colo., also prefers interacting with friends openly and honestly, face-to-face:When I meet someone in person, I feel nervous and vulnerable going up to them and starting a conversation. I get to know them through their facial expressions, gestures, and body language. Because they are also watching my expressions when I say something — in other words, they notice how I say things as much as what I say — my friends can detect deeper meaning behind what I say. We connect on an emotional level.I could be having an extremely terrible day, but on Facebook, I can hide behind my computer, pretending everything is fine, and my Facebook friends would have no idea. The internet creates a distorting filter where it is more difficult for people to understand one another on an emotional level because they cannot see each other. Online, we have to use a smiling emoji, but face to face, we can just smile._________In the spirit of the upcoming games, we asked students: What Winter Olympic Sports Are You Most Excited About Watching?Brandon Brodwater from Wilmington, N.C., is looking forward to the snowboarding competition:Snowboarding (or snurfing) has been a staple of winter mountain sporting since its inception. Much like other board sports, snowboarding requires exceptional balance, control, awareness, and skill. Professionals of the snowboarding scene have put their lives into practice and perfection of their craft, and in some cases have become pop culture influences (Sean White). Taking into account the skill required to snowboard at a top level and the vast size of the culture, theres not a doubt in my mind that snowboarding should be included in the Winter Olympics. Most viewers of the Winter Games would agree, as Sports Illustrated listed the snowboard half pipe as the most popular event from the 2014 games.Tara B from Wilmington, N.C., is another snurfing fanatic:Im really excited for the Winter Olympics because of the snowboarding. I love the sport and I snowboard when I go up to New York sometimes. My favorite snowboarders are Gabe Ferguson, Shaun White, and Scotty James. Gabe and Shaun are on Team USA and Scotty James is on Team Australia.My all-time favorite snowboarder is Scotty James. Ive been following him since the X Games and he is truly amazing. He first started skiing at age one and then he started snowboarding three years of age. He started competing when he was six years old. He first went to the Winter Olympics when he was 15 years old, making him the youngest Australian male to compete in the Winter Olympics.And Nick Hargrove from Wilmington, N.C., hopes to see more extreme sports enter the Olympics:… they could add other extreme games. In the x-games snowmobile speed and freestyle competitions are held. Both of these events could be added since the closest thing in the Winter Olympic Events today would be bobsledding. I am most excited to watch the bobsled racing, as well as the speed skating. I find the shorter events to be more entertaining. One Winter Olympic sport that is lengthy that I am intrigued by is the biathlon. The biathlon requires athletes to fire at targets varying from 1.8 to 4.5 inch in diameter based on firing position while being able to cross country ski, competing for the quickest time. I find this event interesting because of the diversity it brings to the Games.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BILL PENNINGTONFEB. 15, 2018
PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Norway has one of the smallest mens Alpine teams on the World Cup circuit, and only about 2.5 million men in the country to build a team from. And yet the Norwegian skiers are dominating the Olympics again.Aksel Lund Svindal and Kjetil Jansrud won gold and silver in the downhill here on Thursday. Norway has three racers in the top four of the current World Cup overall standings, and they are among the favorites to take home more Olympic hardware before these Games are through.In an era in which every world-class athlete seems fixated on personal brand-building and competing for the most Facebook likes and Twitter followers, the Norwegians embrace an altogether different approach to success. It is a contrarian mix of humility, egalitarianism and basic respect — plus sharing an absurd amount of meals over the course of a schedule that has them spending roughly 250 days together every year.They get along so well and feel so strongly about collegiality that they even share beds sometimes.We believe there is no good explanation or justification for why you have to be a jerk to be a good athlete, Jansrud, the defending Olympic super-G champion, said. So we just wont have that kind of thing on our team. You have to get along with everyone.AdvertisementIn all, there are five time-honored, if unconventional, team dictums that they insist account for the outsize number of championships Norways team has won the past two decades.No. 1, as Jansrud mentioned, is the prohibition on jerks, a variation on a rule that uses a stronger word made famous by Robert I. Suttons best-selling book on leadership.AdvertisementA second rule is that there is no class structure, even though Jansrud and his veteran teammate Svindal have combined to win 18 Olympic and world championship medals as of nightfall Thursday.When I joined the team I was just a teenager who still had a poster of Aksel on my bedroom wall because he was a national hero, Aleksander Aamodt Kilde, 25, said.On his first day with the team, Kilde went to the team dinner — the Norwegians always try to eat together — and discovered he was seated at the head of the table.There are no rookies and no champions on the team, said Kilde, now ranked 13th in the World Cup standings and one of six Norwegians in the top 30. Were all equals.Another team maxim: The social fabric of the group is paramount.We have a saying, Svindal said. There is almost no skill or ability you can have that is so good it allows you to ruin the social qualities of the team.Svindal explained the social quality of the team was essential because some days their training runs might last only two minutes — if thats the only fun you have every day, youre going to hate your job.AdvertisementAcross 250 days together, your life off the snow has to be really good, he said.Along those lines, there is another team canon.We say that you talk to each other, not about each other, Lars Maeland, the teams strength and conditioning coach, said.Finally, there is one overriding, hard-and-fast team rule:Friday night is taco night.Eating tacos on Friday nights is a national tradition in Norway. Wherever the Norwegian mens Alpine team is in its rolling-stone existence — parts of every summer are spent on mountains in the Southern Hemisphere — the entire team gathers on Fridays. The taco-prep duties rotate through the group. If possible, girlfriends and wives attend as well.That might be another, more unofficial, rule, Maeland said. Our girlfriends are also good friends.So, yes, the Norwegian mens team, which is about a dozen racers — or roughly one-third as many skiers as there are on some of the large European teams — is a close-knit group that gets along.But what does team bonding really have to do with skiing fast? Team members are actually competing against one another in an individual sport; there is no team score at the end of each race. Also, plenty of skiers have had success with little involvement with a national team.Jansrud, a gold medal contender at the Pyeongchang Games in the super-G, Alpine combined and downhill events, insisted that everyones getting along leads to good results.There are no secrets in terms of individual tactics or techniques on the team; we share everything we know, he said.AdvertisementAlso, since ski racing is an unforgiving sport, with just one winner in each race, winning cannot be the only source of happiness, or else losing passion for the sport is inevitable. If you have teammates who consistently lift you up, then the environment will make you happy, Jansrud said. Youll work harder and stay motivated. Youre giving yourself your best chance to win.Putting team togetherness first was a concept passed down by past Norwegian Alpine luminaries like Lasse Kjus and Kjetil Andre Aamodt, who combined to win 36 Olympic and world championship medals from 1992 to 2004.Svindal, who joined the Norwegian World Cup team directly from the national junior program more than a decade ago, recalled how Kjus and Aamodt pulled him aside shortly after his promotion to explain that the team would always be his home.They told me, This isnt an N.B.A. team or something like that — you cant be traded or sold to another team, Svindal said. Were all here for life. Those two guys created a culture of unity, and all we had to do was preserve it.But the togetherness extends in ways that would be wholly unfamiliar to an N.B.A. team. On the road, the racers — national sporting celebrities in Norway — not only share hotel rooms, they sometimes share hotel beds.We dont often stay in five-star hotels, and single rooms are very rare unless were traveling with an odd number of athletes, said Leif Kristian Nestvold-Haugen, who has been on the team for about a decade. And sometimes our rooms will have two double beds or just one queen bed. So then its two guys in the same bed. We dont really think its a big deal.Visualize, if you can, Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant sharing a hotel room on the road — let alone a bed.Shrugging his shoulders with a grin, Nestvold-Haugen agreed that was unlikely.Maybe thats another part of our system that forces people on the team to get along, he said.AdvertisementStill, everything is not always entirely peaceable.Around the dinner table, its a group of alpha males who all want to be the best and think they know the answer to all kinds of things, from skiing to politics to economics, said Nestvold-Haugen, who is ranked 23rd in the World Cup standings. We dont actually have a clue about those things, but we debate them anyway and we disagree, he added. But it never goes farther than that.He has covered Jordan. Hes covered Kobe. And LeBron vs. the Warriors. Go behind the N.B.A.s curtain with the leagues foremost expert in a new basketball newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.From May to August, the team — en masse — usually conducts the bulk of its off-season strength and conditioning training together in the Oslo area. Other ski teams — the Americans come to mind — scatter in the off-season, except for short periods spent at the teams headquarters in Utah.For parts of two years beginning in 2016, there was a kerfuffle that tested the Norwegian teams noted harmony. Henrik Kristoffersen, a 23-year-old whose impressive results this season will make him a top contender in the slalom and giant slalom, tangled with Norways national federation in a battle over an individual sponsorship agreement. In each season, Kristoffersen eventually joined the team and signed an agreement to abide by its regulations.Those protocols do not officially include things like contributing positively to the social fabric or participating in taco Fridays.But definitely, everyone understands those rules, said Svindal, the 35-year-old team elder.That seems to be working.Heading into the downhill, the Norwegians had won four silver medals and a bronze in the last six Olympic downhill races but never the top prize in the sports most esteemed Olympic race. Then came Thursday, a near-perfect team triumph.I just wanted to win, Svindal said Thursday afternoon as he sat next to Jansrud at the postrace news conference. And I know he wanted to win.A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2018, on Page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: A Ski Powerhouse Fueled by Togetherness and Taco Night.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MILAN SCHREUERFEB. 18, 2018
BRUSSELS — The city is freezing. At night, Hamza Khater eats and sleeps at a volunteer-run shelter. He spends his days hanging around the international bus stop next to the Gare du Nord.What am I looking for? I am looking for a life, said Mr. Khater, 31, who fled the violence-ravaged Sudanese region of Darfur a year ago. Specifically, he is looking for a chance to reach Britain. He has been for months.Sudanese migrants like Mr. Khater are increasingly visible in Brussels, around train stations, in public squares and parks, sometimes sleeping in the streets. Mehdi Kassou, an organizer for a volunteer group that provides shelter for about 500 migrants each night, estimates that about 45 percent of them are Sudanese.Their presence reflects the latest phase in a migration crisis that has disrupted politics in one European country after another. It also leaves the center-right government of Belgium, which is set to hold elections next year, struggling to reconcile its legal and humanitarian obligations with its tough but fair rhetoric on migration, and a determination to avoid large-scale migrant camps in the capital.AdvertisementVery few of the Sudanese people who have recently arrived in Brussels seem to be planning to stay: Sudan was not among the top 10 countries of origin for those applying for asylum in Belgium last month. Many, like Mr. Khater, hope to reach Britain, which is Sudans former colonial power and has a sizable Sudanese population.AdvertisementAnd some are former residents of the Jungle, the camp near Calais, Frances main ferry port for travel to Britain, that became a symbol of the global migration crisis in 2015, home to migrants from the Middle East, Africa, Afghanistan and elsewhere.When the French government closed the camp in October 2016, evacuating thousands and offering to resettle them around the country, many made their way to Brussels, another international transit hub. Over the summer, tents and makeshift shelters appeared in Maximilian Park. Migrants who might once have headed for Calais continue to arrive in the city, hoping to journey onward.Mr. Khater certainly does not want to stay in Belgium. I am afraid here, he said, because I dont have an education, I dont have money, I dont speak French.Most important, he added, Belgium doesnt understand the politics of Sudan; if I ask asylum here, Belgium may send me back to Italy immediately, or worse, even to Khartoum.European Union law requires migrants to apply for residency or asylum in the first country in the bloc they reach. In the past three years, tens of thousands of Sudanese have crossed the Mediterranean by boat, landing in Italy, Greece or Spain. Most applied for asylum, and only a few hundred have been deported, according to the International Organization for Migration.Many Sudanese, however, seek to move on, in secret and without papers, to Britain. Often that involves camping for months near bus stops, truck stops, train stations or seaports.So what do countries owe such transitory migrants? Belgiums state secretary for asylum policy and migration, Theo Francken, has argued that the state cannot take responsibility for those who do not claim asylum.His reasoning is that if Belgium allows a few hundred migrants to reside illegally on its territory, it could attract millions of others, potentially plundering Belgiums generous social security system.AdvertisementSeeing unauthorized migration rise in Brussels last summer, the Belgian government ordered a series of heavy-handed raids on informal camps and homeless shelters. Those raids — along with falling temperatures — have largely succeeded in breaking up camps in public parks, and received wide popular support.Even so, hundreds of Belgian families have reacted by inviting migrants into their homes. (Last month, the government proposed police raids on the houses of citizens suspected of sheltering unauthorized migrants.) Medical charities are providing food, clothes and assistance, and volunteers have set up shelters like the one where Mr. Khater sleeps, in a former office building. The total cost of sheltering one migrant is about 10 euros per night, organizers estimate.There have been several demonstrations against the government policies, and about 3,000 people formed a human chain around migrants at the Gare du Nord last month to prevent a police raid.The crackdown has also exposed Belgium to the possibility of rebuke on human rights grounds.In September, the government invited Sudanese officials to help identify and expel people in the country illegally who did not want to apply for asylum. Ten Sudanese were subsequently sent to Khartoum, and accounts quickly surfaced that at least three had been abused upon their return.
            Belangrijke meeting met Dhr. Mutrif Siddy Ali, de ambassadeur van Sudan. Samenwerken om de problematiek vh Maximiliaanpark op te lossen. pic.twitter.com/WP2Q3EwvnX The Belgian government ordered an investigation of the allegations. It concluded earlier this month that Brussels had not done enough to assess the risks faced by those deported, and warned that migrants who had not applied for asylum still had the right to be protected from torture.The report said it was impossible to establish whether the abuses had taken place.At the Gare du Nord, Mr. Khater and several fellow travelers showed wounds and scars that they said had been inflicted by the Belgian police. One had a dislocated thumb, another a fresh cut across his jaw, yet another a stitched eyebrow. Several had open wounds. All said they knew Sudanese men who had recently been deported to Khartoum and then dropped out of contact.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Why arent the police kind to us? Mr. Khater asked. I am running for my life. I did do nothing wrong. I dont understand the politics here.Mr. Kassou, the shelter organizer, agreed that certain officers in certain towns, not all police could be pretty violent with migrants. We very regularly have people who enter with wounds, even bites from police dogs, he said.AdvertisementSarah Frederickx, a spokeswoman for the Belgian police, said that officers treated transitory migrants in a very empathic and humane way. That being said, she added, it is possible that during certain operations, for instance when people fiercely resist police actions, officers use force, but in proportion.Many aspects of what is happening are familiar, according to Johan Leman, an emeritus professor of anthropology at the Catholic University of Leuven who is an expert on Belgian migration policy and has worked with migrants in Brussels for decades. Irregular migration from Africa to Europe isnt new, he said. Tough return policies have existed in Europe since the 1980s, and the continent experienced a refugee crisis in the 1990s after the breakup of Yugoslavia.What is new, he said, and what I have never seen before in Europe to this extent, is, first of all, that ministers are pounding their chests, saying, Look at me, how many people I have deported now. And secondly, that people are being deported back to a country of which we manifestly know that the government is violating human rights — I am thinking of Sudan here.Sudans president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, is wanted by the International Criminal Court for trial on charges of war crimes and genocide.When police officers arrested several Sudanese migrants, including three minors, around the Gare du Nord last year, Mr. Francken, the state secretary for asylum policy, described the operation on Facebook as a cleanup. After a public outcry condemning the remark as xenophobic, he offered his apologies to the prime minister, who did not accept them.Follow Milan Schreuer on Twitter: @MilanSchreuer.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: How Europes Crisis With Migrants Reached the Streets of Brussels.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARK LANDLER and MICHAEL D. SHEARFEB. 16, 2018
WASHINGTON — He brushed it off as a hoax. He mused that it might be China, or a guy from New Jersey, or somebody sitting on their bed who weighs 400 pounds. He said President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had assured him it wasnt true. And, he added, I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it.President Trump has never stopped belittling the charge that Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election. But on Friday, with the indictment of 13 Russians for orchestrating a vast, well-funded operation to interfere in the election, those denials collided with a mountain of evidence arrayed by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.For Mr. Trump, who has tried to discredit Mr. Muellers investigation as a politically motivated witch hunt, it was a direct assault on the version of reality that he has sought tirelessly to create.By laying out a meticulous case for how Russia tried to tip the electoral scales toward Mr. Trump in 2016, Mr. Mueller has made it much harder for the president to dismiss the investigation as mere politics. He may also have made it harder for Mr. Trump to fire Mr. Mueller himself, since, as some Democratic lawmakers argued, that would look like an attempt to help Russia further undermine American democracy.AdvertisementBefore the charges were announced, the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, briefed Mr. Trump and Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, and handed over a copy of the indictment, according to a person briefed on the matter. Mr. Mueller was not present at the briefing.AdvertisementOn Friday afternoon, after Mr. Trump left Washington for his Palm Beach, Fla., estate, the White House issued a defiant statement claiming that the investigation had uncovered no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.
                Thirteen Russian nationals have been charged with illegally trying to disrupt the American political process through inflammatory social media posts and organized political rallies.            Its time we stop the outlandish partisan attacks, wild and false allegations, and far-fetched theories, which only serve to further the agendas of bad actors, like Russia, and do nothing to protect the principles of our institutions, the president said in a statement.In a tweet, Mr. Trump played up Mr. Muellers assertion that the Russian operation had begun in 2014, well before he declared his candidacy. The Trump campaign did nothing wrong — no collusion! he wrote.Far from being rattled, Mr. Trump was elated, according to his advisers, because he viewed it as evidence that Mr. Mueller now knows who the malefactors are — and they do not include him or members of his team. (The indictment refers to campaign officials who met or communicated with Russians, but says they were unwitting.)Yet Mr. Trump sidestepped the fact that he has stubbornly denied Russias interference, even after two assessments by the nations intelligence agencies concluded that Russia had meddled. Last November, during a trip to Asia, Mr. Trump said that Mr. Putin had told him that Russia did not meddle, and that he was inclined to believe him.Every time he sees me he says, I didnt do that, and I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it, Mr. Trump said. I think he is very insulted by it, he added, which is not a good thing for our country.Mr. Trump went so far as to suggest that the heads of the intelligence agencies at the time of the 2016 election — John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director; James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence; and James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director — were less trustworthy than Mr. Putin.AdvertisementI mean, give me a break — theyre political hacks, he told reporters. You have Brennan, you have Clapper, and you have Comey. Comeys proven now to be a liar, and hes proven to be a leaker, so you look at that.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, the response on Capitol Hill was resounding — at least concerning the gravity of Russias actions — and it could narrow Mr. Trumps room for maneuver as he tries to limit the political fallout from the investigation.The Russians engaged in a sinister and systematic attack on our political system, the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, said. It was a conspiracy to subvert the process, and take aim at democracy itself.The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, said the indictment was further proof that Vladimir Putin directed a campaign to interfere with our elections, with the goal of tipping the outcome. He called on Mr. Trump to immediately reverse his decision not to impose sanctions against Russia that were recently passed by Congress.Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, argued that any attempts to remove Mr. Mueller or Mr. Rosentein will have to be seen as a direct attempt to aid the Russian government in attacking American democracy.Mr. Trump has not hesitated to put Mr. Muellers future in jeopardy. Last July, he threatened to dismiss the special counsel if his investigation ranged too far afield from Russias campaign meddling. In an interview with The New York Times, he complained that Mr. Muellers office was rife with conflicts of interest and that the investigation had crossed a red line.A month earlier, several officials said, Mr. Trump actually gave an order to fire Mr. Mueller but backed down after Mr. McGahn threatened to resign rather than carry it out.Mr. Trumps strategy for dealing with charges of Russian meddling has not varied much since the campaign: deny, obfuscate, play down and, since Election Day, blame it on Democrats bitter after Hillary Clintons defeat.How do bots and trolls work to infiltrate social media platforms and influence U.S. elections? We take a closer look at these insidious online pests to explain how they work.In May, Mr. Trump told Lester Holt, the NBC News anchor, This Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story. Its an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they shouldve won.AdvertisementIn September, he tweeted that the Russia hoax continues, now its ads on Facebook. What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary? PolitiFact called Mr. Trumps denial of Russian meddling its 2017 Lie of the Year.Since taking office, Mr. Trump has often expressed concern that the charges undermine the legitimacy of his presidency. He has told associates that if he accepts the premise of Russian meddling, it will call into question the idea that he won the election on his own merits.That fear drove many of Mr. Trumps most incendiary tweets and statements throughout his first year in office, especially about the size and breadth of his electoral victory. The day after his inauguration, Mr. Trump ordered his press secretary, Sean Spicer, to insist that his inaugural crowd was the largest in history, which it demonstrably was not.In news conferences, on Twitter and at rallies, he has called the Russia investigation fake news and repeatedly predicted that Mr. Muellers investigation will end without finding much.Mr. Muellers indictment does not settle the overarching question of whether Mr. Trump or any of his campaign associates colluded with Russia. For now, the president has seized on that as evidence of his innocence.But as Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, put it, The indictment leaves open the vital question of whether Americans, including any associated with the Trump campaign, knowingly played a role in Russias active-measures campaign.That seemed a likely avenue of inquiry for an investigation that is casting a lengthening shadow on Mr. Trumps presidency.Maggie Haberman and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reportingGet politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this news analysis appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: A Reality Check for the President Who Cried Hoax.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By LIGAYA MISHANFEB. 16, 2018
It was close to midnight, and the chef Deuki Hong was still piecing together a hot-dog cart hed ordered online.This is bigger than I thought, he told Andrew Chau and Bin Chen, the owners of Boba Guys, a bicoastal chain of bubble tea shops. In the morning, the three were scheduled to present the last part of their proposal to revamp the drowsy cafe in the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco. The cart, celebrating the tradition of street food throughout Asia, would be the pièce de résistance, if Mr. Hong could finish it.In recent years, museums across the country have tried to shed their reputation for drab cafeteria fare and woo visitors with destination restaurants. Mr. Hong, Mr. Chau and Mr. Chen initially looked to Untitled at the Whitney and Flora Bar, in the Met Breuer, both in New York, as models.But the Asian Art Museum needed more than just good food. The menu had to match the museums mission: to speak to the breadth of Asia, a region of many countries, cultures and cuisines, without reducing its complexity to a handful of clichés.And Mr. Hong, Mr. Chau and Mr. Chen, among other candidates, werent simply being invited to take over a cafe previously run by a corporate caterer. At stake was the future of food at a reimagined museum that is preparing to break ground on a $90 million transformation and seeking a new connection with the people of San Francisco.AdvertisementThe way to the heart is through food, said Jay Xu, who became the director of the museum in 2008, four months before the stock market crash, and shepherded it through its darkest financial hour. Sometimes museum food is too highbrow, he said. Our vision is to make Asian art and culture — including cuisine — essential to everyone.AdvertisementMr. Chau and Mr. Chen, both 35 and of Taiwanese descent, seem particularly well poised for such a challenge: In 2011, they started making bubble tea — a milk-tea drink with submerged tapioca pearls — using organic milk, house-made syrups and tea leaves instead of powders. While bubble tea had long been available in the United States and a staple of Asian-American childhoods, the Boba Guys approach helped widen its appeal among non-Asians and earn annual revenues in the millions.Still, when the museum first contacted them last May, we thought we had no shot, Mr. Chau said. They werent chefs.Fortunately, they didnt have to look far for one — in the back room of one of their shops in San Francisco, Mr. Hong had been quietly selling Korean fried chicken under the name Sunday Bird for the past year.Mr. Hong, 28, also has a record of revitalizing Asian classics. In 2014, he became the executive chef of an outpost of the barbecue chain Kang Ho Dong Baekjeong in Manhattans Koreatown, a neighborhood that he and his Korean-American friends considered culinarily moribund. They made fun of me, he said.But the restaurant soon caught the attention of food-world luminaries like Anthony Bourdain and had to install a bouncer, with waits of up to two hours, before Mr. Hong decided to decamp for San Francisco.For the museum, he said, he didnt want to assemble the Top 100 hits of Asian food. His cooking is rooted in a dual heritage: The son of South Korean immigrants, he split his childhood among Texas, Alabama and New Jersey. He envisioned a menu that was nostalgic — The best feedback to hear is I grew up eating this, he said — but not hidebound by tradition, and his partners agreed.I think theres a third culture, Mr. Chen said, that arises when children are raised in a culture different from their parents. We see it as more of a remix, rather than, Hey, this is authentic. It gives you a license to create.AdvertisementBy August, the three men had made it through the first round of pitches to the museum. Now Mr. Hong was going to cook for Mr. Xu and his colleagues. The plan was to plate the food until the last course, when they would wheel in the cart. It couldnt be just for show — they had to be able to lift the carts lids and reveal mantou (steamed buns) for dipping into condensed milk, matcha and caramel.It wasnt an act of theater; it was a prototype. A key part of their proposal was introducing such carts into a setting where they might seem incongruous. Even as museums have reached out to a broader audience, the image persists of them as hushed, immaculate spaces where the paramount rule is Do not touch. Mr. Hong, Mr. Chau and Mr. Chen were determined to change that.On the morning of the tasting, the museums representatives arrived and the procession of plates began, followed by the cart, somehow conjured together. The next day, the call came: The job was theirs.They were the only ones with a street cart, Mr. Xu said with a laugh. The first Chinese-American director of a major art museum in the United States, he grew up in Shanghai with a love for stinky tofu; Mr. Hongs dishes awoke memories, and at the same time felt new.They fit who we are as a museum, said Akiko Yamazaki, the museum boards chairwoman, who with her husband, Jerry Yang, a founder of Yahoo, has pledged $25 million toward the museums expansion.She, too, is a third-culture kid: The daughter of Japanese parents, she was raised in Costa Rica, where her mother had to improvise Japanese dishes out of available ingredients. She likes how Mr. Hong and his partners bridge different cultures and high and low, turning elegant dishes into egalitarian snacks.The museum cafe is set to reopen in mid-March as Sunday at the Museum, although it will be open every day but Monday. The name is a nod to Mr. Hongs Sunday Bird and the importance of taking a day off to relax, which Mr. Hong neglected in his days in high-powered kitchens.Prices will be gentle. Higher-end tastings and tea flights will be available in a private donors room, and Mr. Chau and Mr. Chen have been lobbying to build a secret tearoom, modeled after one at Boba Guys headquarters that can be entered only by pushing on a bookshelf.AdvertisementIts a little kitschy, but we love it, Mr. Chau said.And street carts will appear some time after the opening, possibly parked on the museums front steps or in the courts on the ground floor. When the rooftop terrace above the new pavilion is completed next year, more carts will appear, alongside a tea bar and public art that might include works by Yoshitomo Nara and Ai Weiwei.Mr. Hong is brimming with ideas for the menu, including Thai khao man gai (literally translated as chicken fat rice), Chinese cheong fun (rice noodle rolls) and Burmese laphet thoke (tea leaf salad). Hes been consulting fellow chefs for recipes. Asked which dish might be the most challenging, he said: Every dish feels like that. Even Korean food I feel like I know, but I dont really know.His standards are high: If its not as delicious as this place I go to in Chinatown —  He paused, then said with a sigh, Youre never going to be as good as guys whove been doing it for generations.Asian Art Museum, 200 Larkin Street, San Francisco; 415-581-3632, asianart.org.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Lot on Their Plate to Fulfill.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Erica GoodeFive years ago, shortly after the elementary school massacre in Newtown, Conn., I visited a program in Los Angeles aimed at heading off school shootings before they occurred.What I learned was both terrifying and encouraging. High schools and colleges, it turned out, were rife with troubled students who expressed violent thoughts. One scribbled Kill Everyone Leave None Alive in a notebook beside drawings of bombs hitting a building that looked disturbingly like a school. Another posted pictures of himself on Facebook holding guns alongside the words School — Tomorrow. A third student said that Adam Lanza, the Newtown shooter, had done a good thing in killing those 20 children by enabling them to escape the travails of life.But I also realized that mental health experts, law enforcement agencies and criminal justice researchers had learned a great deal about how to identify potential perpetrators of school violence, how to assess whether the threats were real — a vast majority are not — and how to intervene. With at least 17 people dead at a high school in Parkland, Fla., on Wednesday and 40 school shootings recorded in the United States since 2000, it is worth paying attention to what this knowledge is.Studies have shown, for example, that in school shootings, the killers virtually always leak their intentions, leaving a trail of clues behind them. Nikolas Cruz, the 19-year-old who the police said has confessed in the Parkland shooting, apparently was no exception: Students reportedly avoided him and joked that if anyone were going to shoot up the school, it would be him.Researchers have also found that in many, if not most, cases of school violence, the perpetrator has done extensive research on previous school shootings, studying them in detail, often with special attention to the killings at Columbine High School in 1999. A study of nine school shootings in Europe conducted by J. Reid Meloy, a forensic psychologist in San Diego who consults on threat assessment for schools and corporations, found that a third of the killers had consciously imitated and emulated what had happened in Columbine.Finally, there is nascent, but increasing, evidence that violence begets violence, with one school shooting — especially if it receives a lot of publicity — leading to others, a phenomenon that researchers refer to as contagion. And some psychologists believe that news media reports of mass killings may propel people who are already at risk of violence into committing copycat crimes.Violence is, of course, notoriously difficult to predict, and no one thinks that all school shootings can be prevented. Yet experts in assessing threats say that there are approaches that in some cases can be effective in derailing a planned act of violence.Improved communication among agencies authorized to detect and prevent violence is one promising strategy. In many areas where there are coordinated threat assessment systems in place, barriers to such communication have been dismantled to reduce the chances that a student who is on a path to violence will fall through the cracks.But few localities have as comprehensive a system as I saw in Los Angeles County, where law enforcement, the county mental health department and educational institutions share information and train staff members to recognize and report worrisome behavior. Students, teachers and parents are encouraged to report any troubling behavior. When a threat appears potentially serious, mental health workers and law enforcement officers might visit a students home, talk to the parents and even ask if they can see the students room.Tony Beliz, a consultant to schools and corporations on violence prevention who for many years ran the mental health side of the Los Angeles program, which was started by the Los Angeles Police Department, has noted that parents often have no idea what their children are up to. I n more than a few cases, a team visiting a home has found weapons or other indications of deadly intention.School shootings are rare events, and account for only a tiny fraction of gun-related deaths each year. Still, many experts believe that it should be far more difficult for severely troubled teenagers to get hold of weapons like the semiautomatic AR-15 used in the Parkland, Fla., attack. In California, disturbed teenagers who seem seriously bent on violence can sometimes be committed to a psychiatric hospital for 72 hours of observation, an action that then allows any firearms they possess to be legally seized. In other states, it is not so easy.Educating local clinics, school psychologists and teachers about laws governing the release of privileged communication can improve the chances of identifying potentially dangerous students. Many educators and mental health professionals believe that they cannot disclose troubling confidences, even if they believe that there might be a threat to public safety. But this is not the case.Dr. Meloy, the forensic psychologist, and other experts think the media can also do more to prevent mass shootings. He does not expect news outlets to forgo covering school shootings. But, Dr. Meloy says, reporters and editors could avoid describing a killer using words that might convey a certain cool pose to some teenagers, including lone wolf or even school shooter.From the perspective of a young male, being a school shooter is something that can be idealized, and it brings a coolness to the behavior that otherwise does not exist in his life, Dr. Meloy told me.After my trip five years ago, I wrote a story about the Los Angeles program and others like it and left feeling hopeful that even if our society cant stop school shootings altogether, we can certainly reduce their frequency.The horrific shooting in Parkland raises the question of whether we are serious about trying.Erica Goode, a former New York Times reporter, is a visiting professor at the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy DAMIEN CAVEFEB. 14, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.______From my perspective the film Crocodile Dundee never reflected what Australia was like — then or now.Thats Merydith Willoughby, one of the many Australia Letter readers who answered my call last week for insight on Croc Dundee and what a new and improved version might look like.You know, one that wasnt as Merydith put it: high fetched and intended to intrigue the globe in order to get people to visit Down Under.AdvertisementI laughed and smiled and sharpened my kitchen knives reading the entries that came in. They revealed, as usual, a deep vein of inquiry around what it means to be Australian and how to make that clear to the world.AdvertisementBelow are a few of my favorites pitches — both serious and playful — followed by our weekly roundup and a recommendation for a photo festival were working with thats eager for quality entries.Share the word. Share your Australia Diary anecdotes. And, of course, share (and sign-up for) this newsletter.Feedback? Find us at nytaustralia@nytimes.com and in our NYT Australia Facebook group.___Tassie TimeEnough with that desolate, overheated Outback stuff.Australian mainlanders and foreign outlanders alike need to know there is a place down here that, despite being wild and dangerous, has four seasons, charmingly spread across 12 months.The new Dundee should be a feature-length version of Rosehaven. The Luke McGregor character doesnt carry a knife but he can still charm the leg off an iron pot.Even the NYT called Rosehaven charming — not a word usually applied to anything Oz. And if you feel the need to put a Hemsworth in it, Chris would be an excellent ghost of Errol Flynn, roaming the streets of his Tasmanian childhood.— Sheila AllisonAn Aussie BattlerWind the clock forward. He or she can be a small business person, who does an enjoyable and authentic job, up against a multinational corporation.A David and Goliath story, or as Australians would think of it; a little battler does good story.Something heartwarming. Characters you can relate to and really get to like, but not quite sophisticated. Street smart, but honest street smart. Hard working, believes he or she can mix it up with the big players. Has a lot of front, but not brash.Maybe the character is a bit like a Federation house – all grand frontage that leads to a lean-to at the back. Doesnt want to rule the world, but wants a fair share.Of course, our politicians can get involved, but based upon their antics over the last couple of years they would be uncouth. Id even give a cameo to the locked filing cabinet. Id call it the Cabinets cabinet after Major Major of Catch 22.Would the battler win? Of course. Not in the courts, but with daring do.For the cast, it is hard to go past Hugh Jackman and Russell Crowe.— Mark ThomasCroc Dundee, Feminists FirstIt should be a girl.Margot Robbie has inherited her dads bar in Alice Springs. She operates with a no-nonsense style, making it a draw for tourists and locals alike.One night she has to remove an unruly customer, which a patron videos and posts to the Internet.She becomes a viral sensation, and soon a crew from the New York Times comes calling.When they get to the bar, she is the real thing, and they want her to come to the States to appear in a reality TV show, Croc Dundee, the WomanShe reluctantly gives it a try, and is a fish out of water in Brooklyn, where she cant understand the appeal of $5 cups of coffee and over-priced meals. After she encounters a bigot berating an Aboriginal (somehow one of them made it to NYC), she gives him a thrashing which is recorded by a man on the street with an iPhone, but this time she grabs it from the man and smashes it, saying one viral video in a lifetime is enough.She packs it up and heads back to Alice Springs, where her portrait is painted for inclusion in the museum at Canberra, and she meets up with an male mate from grade school. (second grade).Their childrens romance is rekindled and they operate the bar which is now a tourist mecca, featuring the New York Strip Steak, cooked Brooklyn style.They have a YouTube channel and post videos of famous people who drop by.— Kirby Franklin Warnock______The autonomous selfie drone that will follow you and film you is finally here.As someone who both loves technology but hates seeing and hearing drones hovering over some of Australias most beautiful coastal walks, Im not sure how to feel about this.Neither is our tech columnist, Farhad Manjoo.______Are you watching the Olympics? Our complete coverage can be found on our 2018 Olympics page.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But if you only read one story, or if youre just looking for something playful and less than purely jingoistic or celebratory, dont miss this feature on one athletes ridiculous and revolting shoes.Advertisement______The Israeli police recommended on Tuesday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust, in a scandal that has ties to Australias own James Packer.According to the police, expensive cigars, jewelry and pink champagne flowed into the prime ministers official Jerusalem residence in quantities sufficient to stock a small cocktail lounge — and Mr. Packer was one of the patrons.Read our colleagues take from Jerusalem.______• An Affair Puts Spotlight on Australias Crony Culture: Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce is fighting for his political life, and Canberras cozy, clubby ways are looking increasingly inappropriate. (International)• Is Australias Media Too Prudish for a Sex Scandal? Australias married deputy prime minister is having a child with a former staff member. The countrys media have been strangely reluctant to cover it. (Opinion)• Who Is Harry Harris, Trumps Pick for Ambassador to Australia? Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., the commander of the United States Pacific Command, is a vocal critic of Chinas military expansion in the region. (International)• Even Australias Medical Marijuana Poster Boy Cant Get the Drug: Though legal in Australia, medical marijuana is difficult to obtain. One teenager, Lindsay Carter, has become the face of the issue. (International)• Missing a Blue-Tongued Friend: A reader discovers her husband had a loyal companion while tending to his garden. (Australia Diary)• Their First Adventures Began on a Slow Bus: Two very different travelers find their way to love, with sojourns in Australia, the United States and Latin America. (Weddings)Advertisement• At New Zealand Trail Huts, Shelter, Conversation and Community: Sometimes theres solitude. Other times, lively discussions with new friends. And at every stop in the hut system theres the Intentions Book. Its must-reading. (Travel)______Break out your cameras, folks, and enter the Head On Photo Awards — Australias largest photo competition. Its your chance to win $60,000 in cash, prizes and space for exhibition in Sydney at this years festival in May.There are special categories for potraits, landscapes (like the winner above), mobile and for students too — and the great thing about it is that names and CVs are stripped off the entries. Its just the images that will make or break you so forget the networking, and start shooting!One of The New York Timess most talented photo editors, Mikko Takkunen, will be among the judges.Entries close Feb. 25.Damien Cave is the new Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. Hes covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By AUDRA D. S. BURCH, PATRICIA MAZZEI and JACK HEALYFEB. 16, 2018
PARKLAND, Fla. — Delaney Tarr, a high school senior, cannot remember a time when she did not know about school shootings.So when a fire alarm went off inside Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and teachers began screaming Code red! as confused students ran in and out of classrooms, Ms. Tarr, 17, knew what to do. Run to the safest place in the classroom — in this case, a closet packed with 19 students and their teacher.Ive been told these protocols for years, she said. My sister is in middle school — shes 12 — and in elementary school, she had to do code red drills.This is life for the children of the mass shooting generation. They were born into a world reshaped by the 1999 attack at Columbine High School in Colorado, and grew up practicing active shooter drills and huddling through lockdowns. They talked about threats and safety steps with their parents and teachers. With friends, they wondered darkly whether it could happen at their own school, and who might do it.AdvertisementNow, this generation is almost grown up. And when a gunman killed 17 people this week at Stoneman Douglas High in Parkland, Fla., the first response of many of their classmates was not to grieve in silence, but to speak out. Their urgent voices — in television interviews, on social media, even from inside a locked school office as they hid from the gunman — are now rising in the national debate over gun violence in the aftermath of yet another school shooting.AdvertisementWhile many politicians after the shooting were focused on mental health and safety, some vocal students at Stoneman Douglas High showed no reluctance in drawing attention to gun control.They called out politicians over Twitter, with one student telling Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, YOU DONT UNDERSTAND. Shortly after the shooting, Cameron Kasky, a junior at the school, and a few friends started a Never Again campaign on Facebook that shared stories and perspectives from other students who survived the rampage.On a day when the funerals of the shooting victims began here, more than a dozen schools from Massachusetts to Iowa to Michigan were shut down in response to copycat threats and social media interpreted in the worst light. A college near Seattle was on lockdown for several hours on Friday after an unfounded report of gunfire and in at least one case an entire district closed down. Several students have been arrested, accused of phoning in threats to their schools.Just hours after 17 people were killed in a mass shooting at their high school in Parkland, Fla., students turned to social media to advocate for more gun control.At other high schools across the country, students rallied in solidarity with Stoneman Douglas High and staged walkouts to protest what they called Washingtons inaction in protecting students and teachers. A gun control advocacy group, Moms Demand Action, said it had been so overwhelmed with requests from students that it was setting up a parallel, student focused advocacy group.People say its too early to talk about it, Mr. Kasky said. If you ask me, its way too late.His argument reflects the words of other students who want action: The issue is not an abstraction to them. These are their murdered friends, their bloodstained schools, their upended lives.Students said they did not want to cede the discussion over their lives to politicians and adult activists.AdvertisementWe need to take it into our hands, Mr. Kasky said.David Hogg, a 17-year-old student journalist who interviewed his classmates during the rampage in Parkland, said he had thought about the possibility of a school shooting long before shots from an AR-15 started to blast through the hallways. As he huddled with fellow students, he stayed calm and decided to try to create a record of their thoughts and views that would live on, even if the worst happened to them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I recorded those videos because I didnt know if I was going to survive, he said in an interview here. But I knew that if those videos survived, they would echo on and tell the story. And that story would be one that would change things, I hoped. And that would be my legacy.It is a stark change from the moments that followed the Columbine shooting in April 1999, said Austin Eubanks, who survived the shooting. Mr. Eubanks and a friend hid under a table when the two teenage gunmen walked into the library and started shooting. Mr. Eubanks was wounded. His friend, Corey DePooter, was killed.There was nobody who took an activism stance, Mr. Eubanks said of Columbines immediate aftermath. He said he began abusing opiates shortly after as a coping mechanism. I just wanted to be left alone. I was so destabilized and traumatized.Mr. Eubanks now helps run an addiction treatment center in Colorado and has sons of his own, aged 8 and 12. The oldest has asked why Columbine happened and whether he needs to be afraid, and Mr. Eubanks said he has tried to make the boys feel safe while also discussing how children can drift toward violence.No matter how rare school shootings are for the vast majority of students, they have grown up in a world so attuned to these threats that high schoolers are now more conversant in the language of lockdowns and code red drills than their parents.Spencer Collier, the police chief in Selma, Ala., was chatting recently with a group of high school students when they brought up mass shootings and pressed him about current trends and what law enforcement agencies were doing to address them. In Connecticut, Nathaniel Laske, a high school junior, said he had asked school administrators about the apparent absence of lockdown drills or a mass shooting plan in the event something happened during school theater productions.A lot of people arent willing to talk about it, Mr. Laske said. When youre part of a school community it makes you much more inclined to want to prevent things.Soon after Amy Campbell-Oates, 16, heard about the Parkland shooting, she knew she wanted to try, in some small way, to influence the national discussion on gun violence. She and two friends organized a protest, made posters, and on Friday, they rallied with dozens of fellow students from South Broward High School.AdvertisementThey carried signs that read It Couldve Been Us, and Your Silence is Killing Us, and We Stand with Stoneman Douglas. They chanted, their collective voices rising as cars honked in support.We agreed that our politicians have to do more than say thoughts and prayers, Ms. Campbell-Oates said. We want voters to know that midterms are coming up. Some of us cant vote yet but we want to get to the people that can to vote in common sense laws, ban assault rifles and require mental health checks before gun purchases.Tyra Hemans, a senior at Stoneman Douglas High, made a poster, too, emblazoned with the word ENOUGH. On Friday, Ms. Hemans attended the funeral for Meadow Pollack, one of the 17 people killed, and then she spoke about her desire to see President Trump when he visits the area.I want our politicians to stop thinking about money and start thinking about all these lives we have lost, she said. I want to talk with him about changing these laws. Seventeen people are dead, killed in minutes.Audra D. S. Burch reported from Parkland, Fla., Patricia Mazzei from New York and Jack Healy from Denver. Julie Turkewitz contributed reporting from Parkland; Jennifer Medina from Los Angeles; and Alan Blinder from Gu-Win, Ala. Kitty Bennett contributed research.A version of this article appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Code Red! Mass Shooting Generation Raises Voices for Change.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
DEREK M. NORMAN

FEB. 14, 2018
Good morning on this Valentines Day-Ash Wednesday.Its the biggest day of the year for roses.We traced a bouquet from Manhattans flower district back to the source, and it turns out that behind the collective show of love is a feat of logistics.It began last summer, at a flower farm around 9,000 feet above sea level, in the mountains of Ecuador, when a rose bush began to show buds, said Stephen Faitos, who runs Starbright Floral Design, a small shop in the flower district.About six months later, those buds were poised to bloom, and the farm opened an online auction in which florists across the world — including Starbright Floral Design, which Mr. Faitos runs with his father — could bid on the blossoms.The roses were then cut, setting the countdown clock ticking on their 19-day life span.They traveled by truck along winding mountain roads to Quito, were packed onto a cargo plane and flown to Miami, inspected by customs and United States Department of Agriculture officials, and flown that same day at La Guardia Airport.AdvertisementStarbrights drivers were waiting there with a refrigerated truck and chauffeured them into Manhattan, where they joined some 40,000 flowers from around South America that the shop had ordered for Valentines Day.AdvertisementThey included two dozen colors; 12 shades of red alone.The roses were all a little tired-looking from the journey, the florists said, so workers spent the next few days nursing them back to health — hydrating, cleaning and preening them before arranging them into $100 dozens to be delivered to New Yorkers.Perhaps, to you.Now, they have about a week before they wilt —  seven days is the typical postsale life expectancy of a rose. Most flowers, youre just enjoying the beauty of its death, Mr. Faitos told us.Still, theyve made it this far.Heres what else is happening:Mild and lovely, with a  high of 50.But grab an umbrella. It may rain later this evening.• In the first State of the City Speech of his final term, Mayor Bill de Blasio pledged that by the time he leaves office New York would be the fairest city in the country. [New York Times]• A federal lawsuit is challenging the Trump administration by arguing that marijuana should be legal under federal law. [New York Times]• Bob Hugin, a former pharmaceutical executive, announced he was running for the Republican nomination in New Jersey for the Senate seat held by Robert Menendez. [New York Times]• Ahmad Khan Rahimi, the man responsible for building and planting the bomb that exploded in Manhattan in 2016, was sentenced to two life terms. [New York Times]Advertisement• For the second time in two months, a federal judge issued an injunction that ordered the Trump administration to keep the DACA program in place. [New York Times]• As DreamYard Preparatory, a once failing high school, makes significant improvements, school officials want to ensure that they sustain its progress. [New York Times]• A police sergeant who fatally shot a mentally ill woman took the stand, telling the court that he tried to prevent her from picking up a pair of scissors. [New York Times]• Despite a large housing stock, there is still a low vacancy rate throughout the five boroughs, a new report from New York City Housing Preservation and Development shows. [Metro New York]• Inside one of Bushwicks only remaining tortilla factories. [Bushwick Daily]• For the second year in a row, Jersey City has been named the most diverse city in the country, the financial services website WalletHub has found. [NJ.com]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Hands Full• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• New York Road Runners hosts a singles jog and mixer at the RunCenter in Midtown. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• See Alan Cumming perform in Many Fathoms Deep, a Valentines Day show of song, spoken word and cabaret, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on the Upper East Side. 7 p.m. [Tickets start at $75]• Celebrate love with laughs at Looking for Love in All the Love Places or Be Mine: Improvisers and Their Real-Life Valentines, at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Hells Kitchen. 8 and 9:30 p.m. [$9]Advertisement• ... Or at a Valentines Day stand-up comedy showcase at Q.E.D. in Astoria, Queens. 9 p.m. [$10]• Looking ahead: On Thursday morning, Exerskate, a fitness class for experienced skaters, on the rink at Bryant Park in Midtown. 8 a.m. [Free]• Nets host Pacers, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks host Wizards, 7:30 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking is suspended.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.The overlap of Valentines Day and Ash Wednesday may cause a quandary for some.Still, many observant Catholics in the city will be wearing ash crosses on their brows.Have you ever wondered where the ash came from?We put that question to the Archdiocese of New York, which oversees St. Patricks Cathedral in Manhattan and nearly 300 other congregations around the city.The ashes are derived from the remaining palms from the previous years Palm Sunday service, said Mercedes Lopez-Blanco, a spokeswoman for the archdiocese.The fronds of the palms are burned, a process that takes place offsite — sometimes as far away as Florida — where they are incinerated in an open fire, collected and shipped back to the city.AdvertisementBefore todays ceremony at St. Patricks, the sacristan, or church preparer, prepared 25 plates of ash. The ashes were to be blessed by the priest at 7 oclock this morning, just before Mass.About 50,000 New Yorkers receive ashes from the cathedral on Fifth Avenue each year, Ms. Lopez-Blanco told us, and the archdiocese is expecting a similar turnout today.The message that comes with the cross: Remember, man, that thou art dust, and into dust thou shalt return.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Alexandra S. Levine contributed reporting.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

 Kevin Roose
 

THE SHIFT
FEB. 13, 2018
Dan Laptev, an electronics analyst, was making his way through the Charlotte, N.C., airport this month when he stopped at Starbucks for a light dinner — a ham-and-cheese sandwich and a cup of hot chocolate. He ate, drank, boarded his flight and got home. And thats when the trouble started.Mr. Laptev spent much of that night hunched over the toilet with a violently upset stomach. Suspecting his Starbucks meal as the source of his ills, he sent a complaint through the companys website, but got only an automated form email back. So he did the next best thing: He logged on to his computer and went to IWasPoisoned.com, a website that allows users to post reports of food poisoning, and submitted his saga.I wanted to let people know to stop eating at Starbucks, he told me.This is the era of internet-assisted consumer revenge, and as scorned customers in industries from dentistry to dog-walking have used digital platforms to broadcast their displeasure, the balance of power has tipped considerably in the buyers favor.This is especially true of IWasPoisoned, which has collected about 89,000 reports since it opened in 2009. Consumers use the site to decide which restaurants to avoid, and public health departments and food industry groups routinely monitor its submissions, hoping to identify outbreaks before they spread. The site has even begun to tilt stocks, as traders on Wall Street see the value of knowing which national restaurant chain might soon have a food-safety crisis on its hands.AdvertisementNot everyone is happy about the added transparency. Restaurant executives have criticized IWasPoisoned for allowing anonymous and unverified submissions, which they say leads to false reports and irresponsible fear-mongering. Some public health officials have objected on the grounds that food poisoning victims cant be trusted to correctly identify what made them sick.AdvertisementIts not helping food safety, said Martin Wiedmann, a professor of food safety at Cornell University. If you want to trace food-borne illness, it needs to be done by public health departments, and it needs to include food history.Rating your Uber driver or Airbnb host is one thing. But when it comes to matters of public health, is there such a thing as giving too much power to the people?Patrick Quade, IWasPoisoneds founder, told me that he started the site after, he said, he got food poisoning from a B.L.T. wrap he bought at a Manhattan deli. At the time, Mr. Quade, now 46, was working as an interest rates trader at Morgan Stanley. He figured that other people might want a place to report food-borne illnesses quickly and anonymously, without the ordeal of filing a complaint with the local health department.At first, the submissions trickled in, mostly from diners who had meals at small local restaurants. But national chains like McDonalds, Subway and Starbucks popped up as well. Dunkin Brands, the parent company of Dunkin Donuts and Baskin-Robbins, saw its stock fall 2.4 percent last July after traders on Wall Street circulated reports of a food-poisoning incident at one of the chains stores, according to the financial news site Benzinga. (The stock quickly recovered, and no widespread food-safety problem was ever confirmed.) Other national chains have also started their own investigations after reports appeared on the site, according to Mr. Quade.No restaurant chain has felt the IWasPoisoned effect more than Chipotle. In 2015, users of the site began posting reports of food poisoning from a Chipotle location in Simi Valley, Calif. Eventually, it became clear that they were part of a larger norovirus outbreak, one of many food safety issues that would haunt Chipotle for the next couple of years, cutting its stock price in half and eventually forcing the resignation of its chief executive.I could tell that Chipotle was a problem brand, Mr. Quade said. The rate of reporting was averaging nine or 10 times higher than other brands. It was a really powerful leading indicator.One day last summer, Chipotles stock fell more than 5 percent after reports that a store in Virginia had been the subject of multiple IWasPoisoned complaints. Another cluster of reports in December sent the stock down 3 percent. In both cases, Chipotle found no evidence of a wider outbreak, and conspiracy-minded industry watchers began wondering if short-sellers were deliberately sabotaging the company by submitting false reports in hopes of causing a stock scare.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Reports made to these third-party reporting sites have no clinical validation, are made anonymously, and are unreliable, Chris Arnold, a Chipotle spokesman, said in an emailed statement. We constantly monitor all available sources of information — including social media platforms and third-party reporting websites — to ensure we are aware of any allegation of illness, and we have robust procedures in place to look into any claims that are made.AdvertisementAfter the 2015 Chipotle incident drew attention to the site, Mr. Quade realized that IWasPoisoned could become a real business. He quit his job at Morgan Stanley, and began to work on the site full time. He now has three employees, a handful of remote contractors and a makeshift office at a co-working space in Manhattan. The company makes less than $20,000 per month in revenue, but Mr. Quade expects that to grow. Soon, he plans to release a mobile app, which will alert a user when walking near a restaurant with an active food poisoning complaint.As it has matured, IWasPoisoned has developed an unusual business model that reflects Mr. Quades Wall Street roots. Power users — like, say, a hedge fund that can profit from knowing about an E. coli outbreak at a major restaurant chain ahead of the rest of the market — pay up to $5,000 a month for real-time alerts whenever a new report is posted to the site. (Free alerts are also available, but they come only once a day.) Only a handful of clients pay for the premium service, but more have expressed interest in signing up, Mr. Quade said.The investment community is more attuned to food safety than ever before, he said.Health officials and restaurant executives are also using the site to spot early signs of trouble. According to Mr. Quade, public health agencies in 46 states and representatives from more than half of the top 50 restaurant chains in America subscribe to the sites daily email alerts. More than 25,000 consumers subscribe to the emails as well.On average, the site now receives 150 complaints a day, and every new report is manually reviewed by a staff member before posting to make sure it is at least plausible. The site weeds out obvious hoaxes and joke submissions, and uses technology like IP tracking to help stop users from submitting multiple reviews of the same restaurant.With every report, our promise is to make sure its a real person who believes they have food poisoning, Mr. Quade said.One of those words — believes — is perhaps the food industrys biggest problem with IWasPoisoned. Food safety experts told me that food poisoning victims are prone to what epidemiologists call recall bias. A person who gets a violent stomach bug will naturally attribute it to the last thing he or she ate, especially if it came from a restaurant with a history of food-safety issues. But often, given the slow-developing nature of many food-borne illnesses, the culprit is something eaten days earlier, or something entirely unrelated.A web page like this doesnt ask what disease you got, or the timing of it, Professor Wiedmann of Cornell said. All of that gets lost.Mr. Quade conceded that point, saying that we dont go out and conduct medical tests on submissions, and that users accounts might not always be reliable. The site allows restaurants to appeal a report, he said, if it has evidence that a customer is lying or mistaken, and it pulls reports off its website after 30 days to limit their reputational damage.But he said that the sites reports were still valuable as data points to consider in context. And, he added, users want a place to complain.AdvertisementTheyll do it, whether we exist or not, he said. If were not there, theyll just go to Twitter or Facebook.Email: kevin.roose@nytimes.com Twitter: @kevinrooseEmail Kevin Roose at kevin.roose@nytimes.com, or follow him on Facebook at facebook.com/kevinroose and on Twitter: @kevinroose.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Too Much Power to People? Website Tests the Limits.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By LIGAYA MISHANFEB. 16, 2018
It was close to midnight, and the chef Deuki Hong was still piecing together a hot-dog cart hed ordered online.This is bigger than I thought, he told Andrew Chau and Bin Chen, the owners of Boba Guys, a bicoastal chain of bubble tea shops. In the morning, the three were scheduled to present the last part of their proposal to revamp the drowsy cafe in the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco. The cart, celebrating the tradition of street food throughout Asia, would be the pièce de résistance, if Mr. Hong could finish it.In recent years, museums across the country have tried to shed their reputation for drab cafeteria fare and woo visitors with destination restaurants. Mr. Hong, Mr. Chau and Mr. Chen initially looked to Untitled at the Whitney and Flora Bar, in the Met Breuer, both in New York, as models.But the Asian Art Museum needed more than just good food. The menu had to match the museums mission: to speak to the breadth of Asia, a region of many countries, cultures and cuisines, without reducing its complexity to a handful of clichés.And Mr. Hong, Mr. Chau and Mr. Chen, among other candidates, werent simply being invited to take over a cafe previously run by a corporate caterer. At stake was the future of food at a reimagined museum that is preparing to break ground on a $90 million transformation and seeking a new connection with the people of San Francisco.AdvertisementThe way to the heart is through food, said Jay Xu, who became the director of the museum in 2008, four months before the stock market crash, and shepherded it through its darkest financial hour. Sometimes museum food is too highbrow, he said. Our vision is to make Asian art and culture — including cuisine — essential to everyone.AdvertisementMr. Chau and Mr. Chen, both 35 and of Taiwanese descent, seem particularly well poised for such a challenge: In 2011, they started making bubble tea — a milk-tea drink with submerged tapioca pearls — using organic milk, house-made syrups and tea leaves instead of powders. While bubble tea had long been available in the United States and a staple of Asian-American childhoods, the Boba Guys approach helped widen its appeal among non-Asians and earn annual revenues in the millions.Still, when the museum first contacted them last May, we thought we had no shot, Mr. Chau said. They werent chefs.Fortunately, they didnt have to look far for one — in the back room of one of their shops in San Francisco, Mr. Hong had been quietly selling Korean fried chicken under the name Sunday Bird for the past year.Mr. Hong, 28, also has a record of revitalizing Asian classics. In 2014, he became the executive chef of an outpost of the barbecue chain Kang Ho Dong Baekjeong in Manhattans Koreatown, a neighborhood that he and his Korean-American friends considered culinarily moribund. They made fun of me, he said.But the restaurant soon caught the attention of food-world luminaries like Anthony Bourdain and had to install a bouncer, with waits of up to two hours, before Mr. Hong decided to decamp for San Francisco.For the museum, he said, he didnt want to assemble the Top 100 hits of Asian food. His cooking is rooted in a dual heritage: The son of South Korean immigrants, he split his childhood among Texas, Alabama and New Jersey. He envisioned a menu that was nostalgic — The best feedback to hear is I grew up eating this, he said — but not hidebound by tradition, and his partners agreed.I think theres a third culture, Mr. Chen said, that arises when children are raised in a culture different from their parents. We see it as more of a remix, rather than, Hey, this is authentic. It gives you a license to create.AdvertisementBy August, the three men had made it through the first round of pitches to the museum. Now Mr. Hong was going to cook for Mr. Xu and his colleagues. The plan was to plate the food until the last course, when they would wheel in the cart. It couldnt be just for show — they had to be able to lift the carts lids and reveal mantou (steamed buns) for dipping into condensed milk, matcha and caramel.It wasnt an act of theater; it was a prototype. A key part of their proposal was introducing such carts into a setting where they might seem incongruous. Even as museums have reached out to a broader audience, the image persists of them as hushed, immaculate spaces where the paramount rule is Do not touch. Mr. Hong, Mr. Chau and Mr. Chen were determined to change that.On the morning of the tasting, the museums representatives arrived and the procession of plates began, followed by the cart, somehow conjured together. The next day, the call came: The job was theirs.They were the only ones with a street cart, Mr. Xu said with a laugh. The first Chinese-American director of a major art museum in the United States, he grew up in Shanghai with a love for stinky tofu; Mr. Hongs dishes awoke memories, and at the same time felt new.They fit who we are as a museum, said Akiko Yamazaki, the museum boards chairwoman, who with her husband, Jerry Yang, a founder of Yahoo, has pledged $25 million toward the museums expansion.She, too, is a third-culture kid: The daughter of Japanese parents, she was raised in Costa Rica, where her mother had to improvise Japanese dishes out of available ingredients. She likes how Mr. Hong and his partners bridge different cultures and high and low, turning elegant dishes into egalitarian snacks.The museum cafe is set to reopen in mid-March as Sunday at the Museum, although it will be open every day but Monday. The name is a nod to Mr. Hongs Sunday Bird and the importance of taking a day off to relax, which Mr. Hong neglected in his days in high-powered kitchens.Prices will be gentle. Higher-end tastings and tea flights will be available in a private donors room, and Mr. Chau and Mr. Chen have been lobbying to build a secret tearoom, modeled after one at Boba Guys headquarters that can be entered only by pushing on a bookshelf.AdvertisementIts a little kitschy, but we love it, Mr. Chau said.And street carts will appear some time after the opening, possibly parked on the museums front steps or in the courts on the ground floor. When the rooftop terrace above the new pavilion is completed next year, more carts will appear, alongside a tea bar and public art that might include works by Yoshitomo Nara and Ai Weiwei.Mr. Hong is brimming with ideas for the menu, including Thai khao man gai (literally translated as chicken fat rice), Chinese cheong fun (rice noodle rolls) and Burmese laphet thoke (tea leaf salad). Hes been consulting fellow chefs for recipes. Asked which dish might be the most challenging, he said: Every dish feels like that. Even Korean food I feel like I know, but I dont really know.His standards are high: If its not as delicious as this place I go to in Chinatown —  He paused, then said with a sigh, Youre never going to be as good as guys whove been doing it for generations.Asian Art Museum, 200 Larkin Street, San Francisco; 415-581-3632, asianart.org.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Lot on Their Plate to Fulfill.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Eric Asimov
 

THE POUR
FEB. 15, 2018
BORDEAUX, France — Bordeaux, the region, is unrivaled historically as the greatest, most prodigious producer of fine wine in the world.Bordeaux, the port city on the Garonne river, has played a crucial role as the center of the wine trade. Historically, though, it has lacked charm and lovability, and paradoxically, beyond its commercial ties, Bordeaux has had little connection with the wine producers in the growing regions that define the region and practically surround the city.But an ambitious wine museum that opened in the city of Bordeaux on the west bank of the river in 2016 is working to change that. While capturing the worldwide culture of wine in a modern, immersive, multimedia style, La Cité du Vin hopes to serve as a critical link between the urban center of the wine trade and the myriad producers who have historically stood apart.Simply as a cultural center, the City of Wine succeeds brilliantly in many ways. As a symbol, the curvaceous, contemporary building designed by XTU, a Parisian architecture firm, swirls up from the riverside not unlike the Guggenheim Museum flowing upward on staid Fifth Avenue. As a statement, it says that hidebound, conservative Bordeaux is no more.AdvertisementSituated between the districts of Chartrons, the historic center of the wine trade, and Bacalan, a docks and manufacturing area, La Cité anchors a growing tourist hub, which includes a huge, concrete German bunker that once housed U-boats during the Nazi occupation and is now being transformed into an underground arts center.AdvertisementThe few wine museums I have visited around the world have never quite fired the imagination. The more ambitious the museum, the more transparently promotional it is for a particular region, a certain producer or the benefits of wine. The most successful have been the most local, which have simply presented artifacts without forced narratives.But La Cité consciously avoids the outright promotion and celebration of Bordeaux. Instead, it takes an ecumenical approach, looking at the scope of wine culture worldwide and letting history — and the people who make the wines — speak largely for themselves.The challenge was to tell ourselves, Were not promoting wine, were promoting wine culture, said Sylvie Cazes, who was instrumental in pushing the Cité du Vin project forward both as a member of the Bordeaux City Council from 2008 to 2014, and as part of an important Bordeaux wine family that owns Château Lynch-Bages, among other properties.Vinexpo Bordeaux, a vast wine trade exposition held every two years, was a particular inspiration, she said.Vinexpo works because all the wines of the world take part, Ms. Cazes said. That made it a success.La Cité encompasses 10 levels, including a wine bar, a retail shop, exhibition spaces, areas for special tastings, a theater (named for Thomas Jefferson) and, on the top floor, a panoramic restaurant with gorgeous views of the city.But at its heart is a permanent exhibition of 19 themed spaces that provide an overview of the worlds vineyards, the development of domesticated grapevines, the intricacies of how wine is made, the nuances of tasting and drinking it, and historical presentations on transporting wine and enjoying it dating from 6000 B.C.AdvertisementUltimately, it poses the existential question of why humans have gone to such extreme efforts to create a beverage that is not essential to existence.Upon arrival, visitors are issued a companion du voyage, individual electronic guides about the size of cellphones that connect directly with each stop along the tour, explaining in eight languages exactly what you are looking at and how to interact with it. From there, you are on your own, free to wander among the exhibits at your own pace, in your own fashion.You might begin with a dizzying virtual helicopter tour of the worlds vineyards, a sweeping overview that spans the globe in about 15 minutes on three big, curved screens. Or you could watch winemakers discussing their vineyards, from the famous, like Dominique Lafon in Meursault Perrières, one of the great sources of white Burgundy, to a monsignor at Alaverdi Monastery Wine Cellar in the country of Georgia, one of the cradles of wine civilization, where techniques have changed little over centuries.The videos are so sharp that at one point I found I could not pay attention to the winemaker Wilhelm Haag of Fritz Haag, a fine riesling producer in the Mosel region of Germany, because the backdrop — the astoundingly steep Juffer Sonnenuhr vineyard — distracted me with its beauty.Displays explain how vines and grapes were domesticated, how they occupied exalted mythological positions within ancient societies and how vines adapt to wildly different terrains.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Atmospheric enhancements penetrate almost unconsciously as you examine the exhibit: birds singing, thunder, the sound of a helicopter. Later, while learning about the use of barrels and how wine evolves in them over time, I suddenly became aware that I was smelling oak, used in the construction of the display.Not all the exhibits are so straightforwardly historic. A buffet table offers the opportunity for indulging in the sensory experience of wine tasting, offering surprisingly effective examples of different aromas and textures, and the opportunity to test your nose if so inclined.I especially enjoyed an animated presentation of how wine merchants through the ages challenged themselves over millenniums to transport wine overseas to customers who craved it. Its not strictly realistic, as one character chides a god: Youre all the same. You have eternity but no patience.The entire visit can take about two hours to complete, by which time you are ready for the glass of wine included with admission.The permanent exhibition is geared toward anyone who wants to learn more about wine. La Cité also puts on two temporary exhibits a year, in conjunction with other wine regions, which go deeply into particular subjects like wine and art, or wine and music.AdvertisementIn its first year, Ms. Cazes said, 445,000 visitors came to the museum, which far surpassed initial projections.One particularly hopeful sign for La Cité is that the city of Bordeaux is now attracting more visitors. Once drab and dirty, with few interesting places to visit or eat, Bordeaux has undergone a transformation in the last 15 years.The facades of its 18th- and 19th-century architecture, once gray with filth, are now sparkling. An extensive new tram system offers an easy-to-use mass transit network, and the narrow streets of the old city are bustling with busy restaurants and wine bars. In truth, many of the wine bars are so hip that its much easier to find natural wines than it is to get a bottle of good, old Bordeaux.As for whether La Cité can help to bridge the divide between the city and its surrounding wine industry, tourism will play a central role in whether it succeeds. The museum will serve as a point of departure for tours of the Médoc, the historic area encompassing the famous areas of Margaux, St.-Julien and Pauillac. Some will go by bus. Others will leave by boat from La Cité, heading up the Garonne to the Gironde Estuary.Tourism has not historically been encouraged in Bordeaux estates, Ms. Cazes said. Cellars were not equipped for visits and, she said, merchants in Bordeaux were concerned that visitors would buy wine directly from the producers rather than through their networks.Indeed, the Bordeaux tourist board has a desk within La Cité, she said, and is eager to sell tickets for tours.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: A Museum Connects Two Bordeaux.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JEFF GORDINIERFEB. 13, 2018
FERLINGHETTIS GREATEST POEMS By Lawrence Ferlinghetti Edited by Nancy J. Peters. 144 pp. New Directions. $16.95.ONE DAY WHEN I was about 14 or 15 and wandering the aisles of a bookstore in Southern California, my eyes were drawn to Endless Life, a collection of poems by Lawrence Ferlinghetti. I grew up in a conservative household in an even more conservative neighborhood, and I doubt Id had any exposure, up till that point, to Ferlinghetti and his transcontinental, transcendental comrades known as the Beats. All I knew, as I flipped through the book, was that the words were bouncing around the page:What is this? I thought. Why is this guy allowed to write that way? To a teenager with an inchoate interest in language, those leaping lines conveyed a swig of freedom:I had never bought a book of poetry before — at that age, doing so had never crossed my mind — but I bought Endless Life, kick-starting a habit of impulse purchasing that continues to this day. I spent time with it. Ferlinghettis spontaneous transgressions of punctuation and spacing appealed to a kid who was warming up to the intoxicating provocations of punk rock, and I cant be alone in having had that response. Unscientific polling over the years has led me to believe that Ferlinghetti (like E. E. Cummings and Charles Bukowski) used to be something of a gateway poet for young people in America, and a residue of nostalgic fondness remains even for those readers who have moved on to ostensibly more sophisticated stuff. (If youre looking for a contemporary analogy, one can hope that thousands of Rupi Kaur fans will eventually find their way to, say, Louise Glück and Nikky Finney.) Whenever Im visiting San Francisco, I still make a pilgrimage to City Lights, the North Beach bookstore, founded by Ferlinghetti, that stands as a kind of Plymouth Rock for American poetry and progressive thought.But how does Ferlinghettis work hold up now? (Ferlinghetti himself has held up well. At press time, he is still alive and nearing his 99th birthday.) As a publisher, a patron of the arts and a free-speech pioneer, he has been rightly celebrated for decades; he played a crucial role in the defense of Allen Ginsbergs Howl, even winning an obscenity case for daring to publish that zeitgeist-capturing incantation.Yeah, O.K. — but what about his writing? The release of Ferlinghettis Greatest Poems (I wish New Directions had gone ahead and called it Ferlinghettis Greatest Hits, like an album full of ear candy by Tom Petty or Elton John) gives us a chance to revisit that question. Its a complicated one. Do the quicksilver qualities that can make Ferlinghettis poetry so captivating to an adolescent undermine our ability to take it seriously with the passing of years? In his more unfortunate moments, as in the poem called Underwear, corny humor lands with a clank and you cant help wincing: Underwear can really get you in a bind / Negroes often wear / white underwear / which may lead to trouble.It seems self-evident that the passing of years has done Underwear no favors. At the same time, it would be churlish to deny that Ferlinghetti has given the popular canon many indelible lines. For a while in the 1950s and 1960s, his voice stood out amid a mounting dissident chorus; in these days of hashtagged political resistance, it is not uncommon to come across portions of his stanzas reconstituted as memes on Instagram and Facebook:I am waiting for my case to come up and I am waiting for a rebirth of wonder and I am waiting for someone to really discover America and wailBased on passages like that, its not much of a stretch to put Ferlinghetti in the company of skilled songwriters. He knows how to craft a hook. His lines have an easy, welcoming flow. (In this book, the poems are arranged chronologically and fluidly, as if they were part of an Abbey Road-like symphonic collage or a Hollywood highlight reel.) He has a gift for helping you hear what needs to be said, free of impenetrable filters. He is allergic to willful obscurity and our little literary games, as he declared in one Howl-referencing populist manifesto that he titled, with characteristic directness, Populist Manifesto No. 1:We have seen the best minds of our  generationdestroyed by boredom at poetry  readings. Poetry isnt a secret society, It isnt a temple either. Secret words & chants wont do any  longer.Returning to Ferlinghetti is ultimately about returning to the romantic associations of the milieu that produced Ferlinghetti, so it makes sense that some of Ferlinghettis most plangent stanzas are the ones in which he looks back at the heyday of the Beats, that rebel band who / rose over the rooftops of / tenement boneyards / intent on making out / And made out of madness / a hundred years of beatitude. Maybe theres no way to dissociate Ferlinghettis poetry from the nostalgic gauze of various North Beach beatnik tropes — proto-hipsters wearing berets and listening to bebop and smoking French cigarettes, etc. — but what remains intact in the poems (even as their creator approaches a century of living) is the fresh, youthful energy of that moment. The liberating pulse can still be pretty contagious. His high points are the poems that you wish you could listen to in a car, on a long coastal highway, with the windows rolled down — and you certainly cant say that about Robert Lowell.Does the occasionally tossed-off imperfection of the poems give them a kind of time-capsuled charm? If youre willing as a reader to be forgiving, it can be a blast to go back to the way the words bounce. And Ferlinghetti himself cant resist the pull of the past. In Plan du Centre de Paris à Vol dOiseau, this is how he remembers it:yearnings & gropings fantasies & flame-outs such endless walking through the bent streets such fumbling art (models drawn with blindfolds) such highs and sweet inebriations— I salute you now.Jeff Gordinier, a former Times reporter, is the food and drinks editor of Esquire magazine.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.A version of this review appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page BR12 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: The Beat Goes On.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.By CATHERINE PRICEFEB. 13, 2018
The moment I realized I needed to break up with my phone came just over two years ago. I had recently had a baby and was feeding her in a darkened room as she cuddled on my lap. It was an intimate, tender moment — except for one detail. She was gazing at me … and I was on eBay, scrolling through listings for Victorian-era doorknobs.Im not going to try to explain this particular personal passion. The point is that a good 15 minutes had probably passed before I finally caught sight of my daughter looking at me, her tiny face illuminated by my phones blue light. I saw the scene as it would have looked to an outsider — her focused on me, me focused on my phone — and my heart sank. This was not the way I wanted things to be.An increasing number of us are coming to realize that our relationships with our phones are not exactly what a couples therapist would describe as healthy. According to data from Moment, a time-tracking app with nearly five million users, the average person spends four hours a day interacting with his or her phone.I still wanted to use my phone when it was helpful or fun. But I wanted a new relationship with it — one with better boundaries, and over which I had more control. I spent the next year and a half researching habits, addiction, behavior change, mindfulness and neuroplasticity, and developed a comprehensive strategy for how to break up with my phone. The goal wasnt to never use my phone again; it was to create a sustainable relationship that felt healthy.AdvertisementTwo years later, I feel that Ive succeeded. Here are some of the key things I learned on how to navigate a successful breakup and create a better relationship with your phone.AdvertisementMany people equate spending less time on their phones with denying themselves pleasure — and who likes to do that? Instead, think of it this way: The time you spend on your phone is time youre not spending doing other pleasurable things, like hanging out with a friend or pursuing a hobby. Instead of thinking of it as spending less time on your phone, think of it as spending more time on your life.Our lives are what we pay attention to. When we decide what to pay attention to in the moment, we are making a broader decision about how we want to spend our time. The people who design apps desperately want our attention, because thats how they make money. Have you ever wondered why so many social media apps are free? Its because advertisers are the customers — and your attention is whats being sold. So ask yourself: What do you want to pay attention to?Create triggers that will remind you of your goals and make it easier to live up to them. If you want to spend more time reading, leave a book on your bedside table. If you want to cook more, lay out a shopping list for that recipe youre eager to try. Set up a charging station for your phone thats not in your bedroom, and buy a stand-alone alarm clock.On the flip side, avoid triggers that will set you up for failure. Delete social media apps from your phone. (Use the clunkier browser versions instead.) Disable notifications, including those for email. (I allow only those from phone calls, text messages and my calendar.) Establish a rule — for yourself and your family — of not keeping phones on the table during meals.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Its amazing how often we pick up our phones just to check then look up 20 minutes later wondering where the time has gone. I call these zombie checks, and theyre nearly guaranteed to be unsatisfying or make you feel like youre wasting your life.One solution is to create speed bumps: small obstacles that force you to slow down and make sure that when you do check your phone, its the result of a conscious choice. Put a rubber band around your phone as a physical reminder to pause, or set a lock screen image that asks you to confirm that you really want to proceed.When you notice that youre in the midst of a phone spiral, ask yourself: Whats your posture like? Hows your breathing? Is whatever youre doing on your phone making you feel good? Do you want to be using it right now? The more tuned in you are to your own experiences in the moment, the easier it will be to change your behavior.Leave your phone at home while you go for a walk. Stare out of a window during your commute instead of checking your email. At first, you may be surprised by how powerfully you crave your phone. Pay attention to your craving. What does it feel like in your body? Whats happening in your mind? Keep observing it, and eventually, you may find that it fades away on its own.AdvertisementTime-tracking apps like Moment, Quality Time and  (OFFTIME) will measure how much time youre spending on your screen. (Be prepared to be horrified.) Freedom and Flipd let you block your access to problematic apps and websites when you want to take a break (Flipd also lets you create friendly challenges with other people to see who can spend the most time offline.) Apple now has a Do Not Disturb While Driving mode that sends customizable automated text message responses so that you can step away from your phone without worrying that youll leave someone hanging. Lilspace does the same for Android, and displays a timer on your lock screen showing you how much time youve managed to stay unplugged (a strangely motivating feature).Right now, the sight of someone else pulling out his or her phone on the elevator probably makes you want to check yours as well. But with practice, you can transform this into a cue for a new, healthier habit. When I see other people reach for their phones, I try to use it as a cue to take a deep breath and relax. (Im successful most of the time.)If all else fails, consider your own mortality. How many people on their deathbeds do you think are going to say, I wish Id spent more time on Facebook? Keep asking yourself the same question, again and again and again: This is your life. How much of it do you want to spend on your phone?Catherine Price is the author of How to Break Up With Your Phone: The 30-Day Plan to Take Back Your Life.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By BILL PENNINGTONFEB. 15, 2018
PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Norway has one of the smallest mens Alpine teams on the World Cup circuit, and only about 2.5 million men in the country to build a team from. And yet the Norwegian skiers are dominating the Olympics again.Aksel Lund Svindal and Kjetil Jansrud won gold and silver in the downhill here on Thursday. Norway has three racers in the top four of the current World Cup overall standings, and they are among the favorites to take home more Olympic hardware before these Games are through.In an era in which every world-class athlete seems fixated on personal brand-building and competing for the most Facebook likes and Twitter followers, the Norwegians embrace an altogether different approach to success. It is a contrarian mix of humility, egalitarianism and basic respect — plus sharing an absurd amount of meals over the course of a schedule that has them spending roughly 250 days together every year.They get along so well and feel so strongly about collegiality that they even share beds sometimes.We believe there is no good explanation or justification for why you have to be a jerk to be a good athlete, Jansrud, the defending Olympic super-G champion, said. So we just wont have that kind of thing on our team. You have to get along with everyone.AdvertisementIn all, there are five time-honored, if unconventional, team dictums that they insist account for the outsize number of championships Norways team has won the past two decades.No. 1, as Jansrud mentioned, is the prohibition on jerks, a variation on a rule that uses a stronger word made famous by Robert I. Suttons best-selling book on leadership.AdvertisementA second rule is that there is no class structure, even though Jansrud and his veteran teammate Svindal have combined to win 18 Olympic and world championship medals as of nightfall Thursday.When I joined the team I was just a teenager who still had a poster of Aksel on my bedroom wall because he was a national hero, Aleksander Aamodt Kilde, 25, said.On his first day with the team, Kilde went to the team dinner — the Norwegians always try to eat together — and discovered he was seated at the head of the table.There are no rookies and no champions on the team, said Kilde, now ranked 13th in the World Cup standings and one of six Norwegians in the top 30. Were all equals.Another team maxim: The social fabric of the group is paramount.We have a saying, Svindal said. There is almost no skill or ability you can have that is so good it allows you to ruin the social qualities of the team.Svindal explained the social quality of the team was essential because some days their training runs might last only two minutes — if thats the only fun you have every day, youre going to hate your job.AdvertisementAcross 250 days together, your life off the snow has to be really good, he said.Along those lines, there is another team canon.We say that you talk to each other, not about each other, Lars Maeland, the teams strength and conditioning coach, said.Finally, there is one overriding, hard-and-fast team rule:Friday night is taco night.Eating tacos on Friday nights is a national tradition in Norway. Wherever the Norwegian mens Alpine team is in its rolling-stone existence — parts of every summer are spent on mountains in the Southern Hemisphere — the entire team gathers on Fridays. The taco-prep duties rotate through the group. If possible, girlfriends and wives attend as well.That might be another, more unofficial, rule, Maeland said. Our girlfriends are also good friends.So, yes, the Norwegian mens team, which is about a dozen racers — or roughly one-third as many skiers as there are on some of the large European teams — is a close-knit group that gets along.But what does team bonding really have to do with skiing fast? Team members are actually competing against one another in an individual sport; there is no team score at the end of each race. Also, plenty of skiers have had success with little involvement with a national team.Jansrud, a gold medal contender at the Pyeongchang Games in the super-G, Alpine combined and downhill events, insisted that everyones getting along leads to good results.There are no secrets in terms of individual tactics or techniques on the team; we share everything we know, he said.AdvertisementAlso, since ski racing is an unforgiving sport, with just one winner in each race, winning cannot be the only source of happiness, or else losing passion for the sport is inevitable. If you have teammates who consistently lift you up, then the environment will make you happy, Jansrud said. Youll work harder and stay motivated. Youre giving yourself your best chance to win.Putting team togetherness first was a concept passed down by past Norwegian Alpine luminaries like Lasse Kjus and Kjetil Andre Aamodt, who combined to win 36 Olympic and world championship medals from 1992 to 2004.Svindal, who joined the Norwegian World Cup team directly from the national junior program more than a decade ago, recalled how Kjus and Aamodt pulled him aside shortly after his promotion to explain that the team would always be his home.They told me, This isnt an N.B.A. team or something like that — you cant be traded or sold to another team, Svindal said. Were all here for life. Those two guys created a culture of unity, and all we had to do was preserve it.But the togetherness extends in ways that would be wholly unfamiliar to an N.B.A. team. On the road, the racers — national sporting celebrities in Norway — not only share hotel rooms, they sometimes share hotel beds.We dont often stay in five-star hotels, and single rooms are very rare unless were traveling with an odd number of athletes, said Leif Kristian Nestvold-Haugen, who has been on the team for about a decade. And sometimes our rooms will have two double beds or just one queen bed. So then its two guys in the same bed. We dont really think its a big deal.Visualize, if you can, Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant sharing a hotel room on the road — let alone a bed.Shrugging his shoulders with a grin, Nestvold-Haugen agreed that was unlikely.Maybe thats another part of our system that forces people on the team to get along, he said.AdvertisementStill, everything is not always entirely peaceable.Around the dinner table, its a group of alpha males who all want to be the best and think they know the answer to all kinds of things, from skiing to politics to economics, said Nestvold-Haugen, who is ranked 23rd in the World Cup standings. We dont actually have a clue about those things, but we debate them anyway and we disagree, he added. But it never goes farther than that.He has covered Jordan. Hes covered Kobe. And LeBron vs. the Warriors. Go behind the N.B.A.s curtain with the leagues foremost expert in a new basketball newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.From May to August, the team — en masse — usually conducts the bulk of its off-season strength and conditioning training together in the Oslo area. Other ski teams — the Americans come to mind — scatter in the off-season, except for short periods spent at the teams headquarters in Utah.For parts of two years beginning in 2016, there was a kerfuffle that tested the Norwegian teams noted harmony. Henrik Kristoffersen, a 23-year-old whose impressive results this season will make him a top contender in the slalom and giant slalom, tangled with Norways national federation in a battle over an individual sponsorship agreement. In each season, Kristoffersen eventually joined the team and signed an agreement to abide by its regulations.Those protocols do not officially include things like contributing positively to the social fabric or participating in taco Fridays.But definitely, everyone understands those rules, said Svindal, the 35-year-old team elder.That seems to be working.Heading into the downhill, the Norwegians had won four silver medals and a bronze in the last six Olympic downhill races but never the top prize in the sports most esteemed Olympic race. Then came Thursday, a near-perfect team triumph.I just wanted to win, Svindal said Thursday afternoon as he sat next to Jansrud at the postrace news conference. And I know he wanted to win.A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2018, on Page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: A Ski Powerhouse Fueled by Togetherness and Taco Night.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BROOKS BARNESFEB. 15, 2018
LOS ANGELES — Kevin Durant, for the record, has no aspirations to act.I havent really seen a lot of 6-foot-10 actors, so I think Ill pass on that, he said with a chuckle. Not a fit.Hollywood is very much on the N.B.A. superstars mind, however. Mr. Durant and his business partner, Rich Kleiman, started an entertainment company, Thirty Five Media, in April. Last month, YouTube tapped them to develop sports programming, including the creation of channels focused on athletes like Karl-Anthony Towns, an N.B.A. All-Star with the Minnesota Timberwolves, and the Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman.On Tuesday, Apple said it was working with Thirty Five Media and the Oscar-winning producer Brian Grazer to develop Swagger, a drama partly inspired by Mr. Durants rough-and-tumble adolescence. Im looking forward to giving my input and sharing my insight, Mr. Durant said of the project, which Mr. Kleiman described as Friday Night Lights with Power and The Wire mixed in.N.B.A. players as Hollywood hotshots? Its not a far-fetched notion at a time when one of the worlds biggest movie stars, Dwayne Johnson, is a former pro wrestler.AdvertisementLos Angeles, which will host the N.B.A. All-Star Game on Sunday, is crawling with basketball royalty turned rookie producers. LeBron James and Kobe Bryant hope to build substantial entertainment companies that tap into the billions of dollars that Netflix, Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google are pouring into original programming. Tony Parker of the San Antonio Spurs, Blake Griffin of the Detroit Pistons and the retired Steve Nash also have scripted projects in production or development. Uncle Drew, a comedy starring the Boston Celtics guard Kyrie Irving and several other players, will arrive in theaters on June 29.AdvertisementCelebrity and name recognition is currency in Hollywood, said Todd Boyd, a cinema and media studies professor at the University of Southern California. Mr. Boyd, whose work focuses on race and popular culture, added that the entertainment business was under pressure to diversify its ranks and the stories it put on screen.The question is where this goes in the long term, Mr. Boyd said. How long will the content boom last? Will diversity continue to matter?And success on the court in no way ensures success on screens, Mr. Boyd noted.So far, the most serious has been Mr. James, whose production company, SpringHill Entertainment, has financial backing from Warner Bros. Early accomplishments include The Wall, a game show on NBC where contestants play what is essentially vertical pinball. SpringHill has at least 10 series and three films in the works, including Space Jam 2 and a reimagining of the 1990 hip-hop comedy House Party.Co-founded by Maverick Carter, SpringHill has also built a sports-centric video and podcast platform called Uninterrupted. Sample offering: The Shop, which finds Mr. James and Draymond Green of the Golden State Warriors debating music, sports and culture while getting haircuts.As the number of platforms and distribution channels grows — social media, Amazon, Netflix — there is a big need for unique content and quality storytelling that can cut through the noise, said Mr. Carter, who serves as SpringHills chief executive and has known Mr. James since boyhood. We saw an opportunity to tell stories about people who look like us and think like us.Because he is still playing basketball, Mr. James is not sitting in many production meetings. But Mr. Bryant, who retired in 2016 after two decades with the Los Angeles Lakers, is taking the opposite approach to building his Granity Studios.Hes working on a bunch of novels — fiction, but rooted in sport — and will be building shows and films from there, original from his own head, said Molly Carter, Granitys chief marketing officer.In the near term, Mr. Bryant has a basketball-analysis show, Detail, headed to ESPN. And he will appear at the Academy Awards on March 4. He is nominated for an Oscar for producing Dear Basketball, an animated short based on a poem he wrote.AdvertisementAt a recent Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences event, Mr. Bryant was mobbed by Hollywood A-listers wanting to take selfies with him.This is better than any All-Star Game I was ever in, he said after posing with Allison Janney, an Oscar acting nominee for the ice-skating biopic I, Tonya.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Hollywood has a long history of casting athletes, who come with built-in fan bases and often exude a natural magnetism on screen. Johnny Weissmuller, an Olympic swimmer, starred in a dozen Tarzan movies starting in the 1930s.Among basketball players, Michael Jordan appeared as himself in the original Space Jam, which took in $337 million worldwide in 1996, after adjusting for inflation. Shaquille ONeal, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Magic Johnson have tried acting, producing and hosting over the years, to mixed results.The current crop of N.B.A. stars are a bit different. With Mr. James leading the way, some are trying to build production businesses that can thrive over the long term. (SpringHill is named after a housing complex where Mr. James lived as a boy. Granity is a word that Mr. Bryant made up by melding greater than infinity. Thirty Five Media represents Mr. Durants Warriors jersey number.)LeBron has done such a great job so far, Mr. Durant said. Its like, wow, this can actually be done.Mr. Kleiman, who is also Mr. Durants manager, added that a generation of athletes had also watched music stars build business empires. Kevin paid attention to the Jay Zs and the Puffys that came up ahead of him and provided a blueprint, Mr. Kleiman said.Mr. Durant may not be interested in acting now, but he got his start in Hollywood in 2012 when he starred in the family comedy Thunderstruck, which took in just $587,211 at the box office. After that experience, he focused on his basketball career and investing in tech companies.AdvertisementHis affiliation with YouTube formally started in April, when he introduced a channel dedicated to his off-court life. The channel, which has more than 600,000 subscribers, features videos of Mr. Durant at home (Yo! This is K.D.) and has expanded to include a popular feature, Parking Lot Chronicles, in which his teammate JaVale McGee interviews fans after games.Thirty Five Media also aims to increase revenue on the channel with a twist on the endorsement deal.You may not get Kevin Durant the spokesman — he can only personally represent so many brands authentically — but you can get branded content, Mr. Kleiman said.The Apple project, Swagger, got its start when Mr. Grazer and Mr. Durant spent time together at Google Camp, a summertime conference on the Mediterranean.He started telling me the very interesting story about his early days playing basketball and how his mom kept a really good eye on him, Mr. Grazer said. And that got us talking about another way to do Friday Night Lights, which was a series and movie about a boys identity and how things that seem imperceptible can be so seismic.Mr. Grazer added: A lot of people wanted to buy the idea, but we sold it to Apple. The content boss there, Eddy Cue, is a big Warriors fan.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page BU3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Full-Court Press in Hollywood.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.While the United States may be weakening protections for wilderness, the creation of Yaguas National Park protects millions of acres from development and deforestation.The Yaguas River of the Yaguas National Park in Peru, one of the Western Hemispheres newest national parks.CreditÁlvaro del Campo/The Field MuseumSupported byBy JoAnna KleinThe remote rain forests in Perus northeast corner are vast — so vast that the clouds that form above them can influence rainfall in the western United States. The region contains species, especially unusual fish, that are unlike any found elsewhere on Earth. Scientists studying the areas fauna and flora may gain insights into evolutionary processes and into the ecological health and geological history of the Amazon.Now the area has become home to one of the Western Hemispheres newest national parks. Yaguas National Park will protect millions of acres of roadless wilderness — and the indigenous people who rely on it — from development and deforestation.This is a place where the forest stretches to the horizon, said Corine Vriesendorp, a conservation ecologist at The Field Museum in Chicago, one of many organizations that worked to win the national park designation, Perus highest level of protection. This is one of the last great intact forests on the globe.The designation stands in contrast to moves in the United States that may weaken protections for wilderness. President Trump has made a priority of scaling back national monuments like Bears Ears in Utah, and many advisers to the National Park System recently quit, citing concerns about the administrations commitment to environmental protections.Perus new park, on the other hand, joins a network of parks and reserves recently created to preserve territory in South American countries, including Ecuador, Chile and Colombia.Nowadays were trying to think big, said Avecita Chicchón, who leads the Andes-Amazon Initiative, part of the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation. You need these large areas to be connected.In Peru and elsewhere, political leaders, bolstered by strong civil society initiatives, are recognizing the current effects of climate change and their role in mitigating them in the future. They are setting aside large parcels of land in part to fulfill commitments made as part of the Paris climate agreement. And local and indigenous groups, finally getting a legal say in the process, have also provided critical support.More than 1,000 people, belonging to at least six indigenous groups, live along a 125-mile stretch of the Yaguas and Putumayo rivers. To them, this place is sachamama, a Quechua word roughly meaning mother jungle, the sacred heart of the area that produces the flora and fauna on which the groups depend.These indigenous people are part of a larger community dispersed across the landscape during the rubber boom at the turn of 20th century. They are the descendants of the few who survived slavery, torture and genocide, which took tens of thousands of lives.Over the past two decades, indigenous federations living around Yaguas have been working to protect the land. They educated scientists and conservationists about its geography and biology, and convinced the government that the land was worth saving.In the Amazonian lowlands of Yaguas National Park, different types of rivers that contain distinct forms of aquatic life mix during the rainy season as forests flood. This unusual cocktail of river waters produces biodiversity; more than 300 species of fish have adapted to forest life.Imagine you were a fish and you were in a river, and you could pass to another river, not flowing, not swimming down river, instead crossing the forest, said Max Hidalgo, an ichthyologist at the Museo de Historia Natural in Lima.The fish feed on fruits, disperse seeds and find homes in branches. To find them, youd have better luck cracking open a log than using a fishing line, said Dr. Hidalgo, who has been studying fish in the area for years.One species, not yet named, grows no bigger than your thumb and has only been found dwelling in subterranean tunnels. Dr. Hidalgo hopes to return to the park soon to confirm whether its new to science.But with some 3,000 plant, 600 bird and more than 150 mammal species, there are far more than fish in Yaguas.Often elusive in heavily hunted areas, tapirs in Yaguas seem to remain more visible. Ive never seen this many tapirs in one place, said Dr. Vriesendorp. They are sometimes found in the forest, eating salty mud to extract its minerals.Endangered giant otters, which can grow six feet long, have also been reported in the park. As their habitats become fragmented by deforestation and development, these oversized weasels face local extinctions.But their presence in Yaguas suggests that the aquatic ecosystem is still healthy, which is important given that the park contains the headwaters of a tributary to the Amazon.A team led by the Frankfurt Zoological Society is hoping to get an estimate of the otter population, determine if there are any otter-human conflicts, and eventually assess whether mercury from small, illegal gold mining operations has entered the food chain.If future proposals are successful, three-quarters of the Putumayo River will become a vast, unfragmented corridor for wildlife across northern Peru. And it could also be important as the world aims to reduce carbon emissions.Looking over the rain forest from above, predictable linear patterns of another Yaguas jewel emerge: peat bogs, only recently discovered. They are part of a network of peat bogs across northern Peru that together store massive amounts of carbon.Keeping the carbon in the ground is critical, although it will prove challenging in remote Yaguas and surrounding areas with fewer restrictions.For now, Yaguas is safe, but in the 20 years Ive been working in the Amazon, Ive learned the hard way that todays remoteness is tomorrows access, said Gregory Asner, an ecologist at the Carnegie Institution for Science.But for now, many are celebrating.People dont create national parks every day, said Dr. Vriesendorp. It really is a big deal._____Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementBy JACK DICKEYFEB. 14, 2018
KIDS THESE DAYS Human Capital and the Making of Millennials By Malcolm Harris 261 pp. Little, Brown. $25.When will someone stick up for millennials? We have been sheltered by our parents, swindled by our universities, deadened by our therapists, and for all this our reward has been glib condescension from the boomer press. Rising to our defense is Harris (our peer, born 1988, as the books cover notes), a familiar provocateur from the internets left flank. Harris contends that America has stiffed our generation, filling childhoods with homework and extracurricular activities. All of this ostensibly served to prepare us for college and fruitful careers, when really all it resulted in was the almost inevitable heartbreak of falling short of our parents expectations and ours.Harris spins a recognizable story of a hostile job market characterized by declines in worker solidarity and wages. He uses the concept of human capital to analyze how much time millennials have invested in themselves by way of schoolwork. And for what? Every authority from moms to presidents told millennials to accumulate as much human capital as we could, and we did, but the market hasnt held up its end of the bargain.He brings a fresh, contrarian eye to some of the usual data points. He sees in the Obama-era nationalization of student debt not an aid to youngsters but a goofy scheme to stimulate consumer demand. For rising tuition costs at Americas public universities, he blames greedy administrators rather than benighted state legislatures. He argues that millennials deserved loot has been hoarded by the ownership class and seniors, who have saved entitlement programs that serve them as steady government jobs disappear and the social safety net withers. He also broadens his survey to cover school discipline and YouTube stars. And he makes a surprising case that sexting isnt as harmful as its cracked up to be.AdvertisementAs generational advocates go, we could do worse than Harris. But he ends his book with a fatalism nearly as flippant as the generational critiques he loathes. Despite this moment of political fellowship among millennials, he writes off the possibility of meaningful change coming from government or social movements once we take over. Im not optimistic myself, no, but what is our generation if not rich in skills we may yet put to good use?AdvertisementTHE SELFIE GENERATION How Our Self Images Are Changing Our Notions of Privacy, Sex, Consent, and Culture By Alicia Eler 294 pp. Skyhorse. $24.99.The social internet has been gripped in recent weeks by an app, Google Arts and Culture, which relies on total trust from its users (or perhaps their total lack of concern for privacy). The app encourages users to take and upload selfies so that Googles facial-recognition algorithm might compare them to its vast digital art archive. (Google says it does not store the selfies.) One year ago our generation was donating to the A.C.L.U.; now were taking photos of ourselves for a multinational corporation that has cooperated with the governments surveillance programs. Such is the allure of the selfie.Eler, who is the visual arts critic for The Star Tribune in Minnesota and also a millennial, has published for years on the selfie and its implications for privacy, self-expression and sex. In the selfie she finds an aspirational image essential to being seen by others online. She sees the selfie as a lifeline to those who struggle to be represented in the media ecosystem; she mentions transpeople and agoraphobes. And not all selfie-takers, she proves, are as oblivious as imagined.Unfortunately, Elers book would have benefited from a more careful edit. Her discursive style is sometimes whimsical, but mostly distracting. She dwells on a topic having little to do with selfies and then glosses over complicated selfie-related stories. Fake news in the 2016 election gets at least seven pages; the macaque who took a selfie and then saw PETA sue for his copyright gets just two. She provides an extended discussion of blogs that post screenshots of bad Tinder conversations but glosses over the July 2016 Facebook Live stream by Diamond Reynolds after her husband, Philando Castile, was shot by the police. And while there are moments where her light touch suits the material well, a section on social-media surveillance at Standing Rock is hindered by her choice to discuss it through quoting a meeting she had over coffee with a protester.In spite of its flaws, though, Elers book alights on the source of the selfies power: It is the easiest way to assert ones humanity in our hyper-networked world. Perhaps our much-fussed-over narcissism is not a flaw but a survival tactic.iGEN Why Todays Super-Connected Kids Are Growing Up Less Rebellious, More Tolerant, Less Happy — and Completely Unprepared for Adulthood By Jean M. Twenge 342 pp. Atria. $27.Back in 2006, the psychologist Twenge swiped at millennials in her book Generation Me. She wrote then that we were miserable, entitled narcissists ruined by our parents adoration. She was trying to rebut Neil Howe and the late William Strauss (the gurus of generational theory) who had contended in 2000 that civic-oriented millennials would become the next great generation. Time has evidently softened her.AdvertisementHer new iGen pities rather than disdains those born after 1995, arguing that smartphone addiction has saddled a new generation with profound psychological problems, including sleep deprivation, depression and unshakable senses of loneliness and fear. They drink less and have less sex; they socialize less without their parents present; they hardly read for pleasure or go to the mall; they eschew church and even spirituality; they kill themselves more (but others less); they wait longer to get drivers licenses and give birth. Twenge premises her conclusions on longitudinal studies of high schoolers and college students, which she supplements with first-person accounts from members of iGen. She concludes by offering this advice: Do not sleep with it or give it nude pictures of yourself. It is not your lover. Do not continuously turn your attention to it when you are talking with someone in person. It is not your best friend.Twenge is right to highlight smartphones contributions to our malaise. In one section she notes the feeling of rejection that arises from a text sent without an immediate response, and in another she notes that more screen time leads to less in-person socializing, which breeds loneliness.She could stand to incorporate some of Harriss alarm about the economy. She duly recognizes income inequality as a prime source of iGens anxiety about its future. But while she discusses how smartphones do their harm, she has no such harsh words for the modern labor market. Instead she tells marketers how to exploit iGens diminished expectations, which struck me as tacky and not particularly useful, besides. The kids may spend too much time on their phones, but they know better than to trust brands.Jack Dickey, a 27-year-old millennial, is a staff writer for Sports Illustrated.Follow Jack Dickey on Twitter: @jackdickey.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page BR22 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Millennials and Beyond.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KIM SEVERSONFEB. 15, 2018
The James Beard Foundations sprawling list of more than 400 semifinalists for the best chefs, restaurants and restaurateurs in the country usually doesnt get much attention, except from the people who are on it. The real action comes in May, when the winners are announced at a glamorous gala.This year is different. As with the Oscars and the Grammys, the James Beard awards have become a litmus test at a moment when race and gender inequities are rising to the surface.The foundation for the first time has advised the people who nominate and vote for the winners to add a new set of criteria. In addition to whats on the plate and how a dining room executes service, contenders must also possess the values of respect, transparency, diversity, sustainability and equality.The foundations language is brief and somewhat vague. But as a result, this years list of semifinalists, announced on Thursday morning, looks noticeably different from past lists. This year, 40 percent of the nominees are women, up from 27 percent last year.AdvertisementThis years list is also more egalitarian and culturally diverse (though the foundation was not able to provide any statistics on racial diversity). Barbecue pits, noodle shops and fried chicken stands rub shoulders with high-style restaurants like Vespertine in Los Angeles and Cote, a New York Korean barbecue restaurant with the DNA of an expensive steakhouse.AdvertisementSome restaurants that topped critics lists in 2017 are noticeably absent, omitted by the foundation for either proven or perceived violations of the new code.When creating the semifinalist list, the committee certainly took to heart this moment of reckoning in the restaurant industry, said Bill Addison, the chairman of the restaurant committee and the national food critic for the website Eater.Aqui, in Houston, was not put on the best new restaurant list because the chef, Paul Qui, is awaiting trial after a fight that left his girlfriend bloody. But Jillian Bartolome, the restaurants pastry chef, won a nomination.The Hearth & Hound, the much-anticipated Los Angeles restaurant from the chef April Bloomfield and her partner Ken Friedman, didnt make the cut for best new restaurant, either. Several staff members told The New York Times last year that they were sexually harassed and groped by Mr. Friedman and high-profile guests at some of their other restaurants, and that Ms. Bloomfield didnt do enough to stop those abuses.A committee of 18 food writers, editors and producers is charged with sifting through 23,000 nominations — from regional judges, restaurants and the public — to create the semifinal list. In a sometimes contentious meeting in Honolulu last month, they grappled with how best to apply the foundations new standards for personal and corporate behavior. Because members signed nondisclosure agreements, they would not publicly discuss why certain restaurants did or did not make the list.Obviously, the names in these categories are presented without context, but we hope that they reflect the foundations desire to present awards that will more accurately represent the nations true wealth of culinary talent, Mr. Addison said.It has been a challenging year for the Beard Foundation, which welcomes Clare Reichenbach, its first new chief executive in 11 years, on Tuesday. Some of its marquee award winners, like the chefs Mario Batali, John Besh and Mr. Friedman, have been accused of sexual harassment or worse, and the organization has been criticized for not taking enough action against race and gender imbalances in the restaurant industry.AdvertisementThere have been calls to strip medals from previous winners, which the foundation has declined to do. Instead, past winners who have faced public charges of sexual harassment or abuse have been barred from voting from now on. (Previous winners make up the bulk of the 600 or so voters who will use the semifinalist list as a ballot to pick the finalists in each category. The same voters then choose the winners.)Clark Wolf, a food business consultant who has been honored by the foundation and who was a friend of James Beards, said the group needed to be more forceful. The fact that they didnt make a clear and definitive statement and didnt take away those medals is a problem, he said. We want to know where every leaf and bone comes from, but we dont care that chef is a douche?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Others said the guidelines for both the larger group that nominates contenders and the committee that selects the semifinalists were too open to interpretation.During a radio talk show on WGBH in Boston last week, the food journalist Corby Kummer, a former longtime member of the restaurant committee, said instructions to bar people if there are doubts about behavior or the culture of a restaurant are really shaded and difficult.The policy, he said in a follow-up phone interview, could be used in an unfairly draconian way. Its a time of adjustment, and people are understandably cautious, he said.In another year and another awards cycle, after this initial period of pulling back, there is going to be a new normal for what has been proven, how it has been reported and what goes on everyones best of lists.Anne Quatrano, the Atlanta chef who oversees the foundations awards, agreed that judging the character of a chef or the culture of a restaurant could be challenging. Thats why we are in some ways in an awkward position, she said. But really, its just making sure we feel comfortable that people on that list have integrity, and that those restaurants have good leaders and that everyone can thrive in their kitchens.Other food journalists are drawing their own lines. Jonathan Gold, the Los Angeles Times restaurant critic, gave a positive review to the Hearth & Hound although he engaged in some hand-wringing to do it.I think it may be more important that Bloomfields talent is heard. But Im a white dude — this line is not mine to draw, Mr. Gold wrote. And whichever side of the question you lean toward, it is hard not to feel queasy at the result.AdvertisementAmanda Kludt, the editor in chief of Eater, is taking a harder line. She wrote in a column this week that the Hearth & Hound and other restaurants whose leaders had been caught abusing people would be stripped from the sites lists, guides and other forms of non-news coverage.Why, with so much talent out there, with so many compelling restaurants to cover, would you review the one veiled in controversy? she wrote.Eaters map of the most iconic pizzerias in the East Bay Area, for example, will not include Oaklands well-regarded Pizzaola because its owner, Charlie Hallowell, sexually harassed his staff.The policy is limited to cases in which the behavior has been investigated and publicly exposed. I dont think its fair to punish restaurants based on rumors, she said.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Great Taste Required; Good Behavior Expected.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAMIEN CAVEFEB. 14, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.______From my perspective the film Crocodile Dundee never reflected what Australia was like — then or now.Thats Merydith Willoughby, one of the many Australia Letter readers who answered my call last week for insight on Croc Dundee and what a new and improved version might look like.You know, one that wasnt as Merydith put it: high fetched and intended to intrigue the globe in order to get people to visit Down Under.AdvertisementI laughed and smiled and sharpened my kitchen knives reading the entries that came in. They revealed, as usual, a deep vein of inquiry around what it means to be Australian and how to make that clear to the world.AdvertisementBelow are a few of my favorites pitches — both serious and playful — followed by our weekly roundup and a recommendation for a photo festival were working with thats eager for quality entries.Share the word. Share your Australia Diary anecdotes. And, of course, share (and sign-up for) this newsletter.Feedback? Find us at nytaustralia@nytimes.com and in our NYT Australia Facebook group.___Tassie TimeEnough with that desolate, overheated Outback stuff.Australian mainlanders and foreign outlanders alike need to know there is a place down here that, despite being wild and dangerous, has four seasons, charmingly spread across 12 months.The new Dundee should be a feature-length version of Rosehaven. The Luke McGregor character doesnt carry a knife but he can still charm the leg off an iron pot.Even the NYT called Rosehaven charming — not a word usually applied to anything Oz. And if you feel the need to put a Hemsworth in it, Chris would be an excellent ghost of Errol Flynn, roaming the streets of his Tasmanian childhood.— Sheila AllisonAn Aussie BattlerWind the clock forward. He or she can be a small business person, who does an enjoyable and authentic job, up against a multinational corporation.A David and Goliath story, or as Australians would think of it; a little battler does good story.Something heartwarming. Characters you can relate to and really get to like, but not quite sophisticated. Street smart, but honest street smart. Hard working, believes he or she can mix it up with the big players. Has a lot of front, but not brash.Maybe the character is a bit like a Federation house – all grand frontage that leads to a lean-to at the back. Doesnt want to rule the world, but wants a fair share.Of course, our politicians can get involved, but based upon their antics over the last couple of years they would be uncouth. Id even give a cameo to the locked filing cabinet. Id call it the Cabinets cabinet after Major Major of Catch 22.Would the battler win? Of course. Not in the courts, but with daring do.For the cast, it is hard to go past Hugh Jackman and Russell Crowe.— Mark ThomasCroc Dundee, Feminists FirstIt should be a girl.Margot Robbie has inherited her dads bar in Alice Springs. She operates with a no-nonsense style, making it a draw for tourists and locals alike.One night she has to remove an unruly customer, which a patron videos and posts to the Internet.She becomes a viral sensation, and soon a crew from the New York Times comes calling.When they get to the bar, she is the real thing, and they want her to come to the States to appear in a reality TV show, Croc Dundee, the WomanShe reluctantly gives it a try, and is a fish out of water in Brooklyn, where she cant understand the appeal of $5 cups of coffee and over-priced meals. After she encounters a bigot berating an Aboriginal (somehow one of them made it to NYC), she gives him a thrashing which is recorded by a man on the street with an iPhone, but this time she grabs it from the man and smashes it, saying one viral video in a lifetime is enough.She packs it up and heads back to Alice Springs, where her portrait is painted for inclusion in the museum at Canberra, and she meets up with an male mate from grade school. (second grade).Their childrens romance is rekindled and they operate the bar which is now a tourist mecca, featuring the New York Strip Steak, cooked Brooklyn style.They have a YouTube channel and post videos of famous people who drop by.— Kirby Franklin Warnock______The autonomous selfie drone that will follow you and film you is finally here.As someone who both loves technology but hates seeing and hearing drones hovering over some of Australias most beautiful coastal walks, Im not sure how to feel about this.Neither is our tech columnist, Farhad Manjoo.______Are you watching the Olympics? Our complete coverage can be found on our 2018 Olympics page.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But if you only read one story, or if youre just looking for something playful and less than purely jingoistic or celebratory, dont miss this feature on one athletes ridiculous and revolting shoes.Advertisement______The Israeli police recommended on Tuesday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu be charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust, in a scandal that has ties to Australias own James Packer.According to the police, expensive cigars, jewelry and pink champagne flowed into the prime ministers official Jerusalem residence in quantities sufficient to stock a small cocktail lounge — and Mr. Packer was one of the patrons.Read our colleagues take from Jerusalem.______• An Affair Puts Spotlight on Australias Crony Culture: Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce is fighting for his political life, and Canberras cozy, clubby ways are looking increasingly inappropriate. (International)• Is Australias Media Too Prudish for a Sex Scandal? Australias married deputy prime minister is having a child with a former staff member. The countrys media have been strangely reluctant to cover it. (Opinion)• Who Is Harry Harris, Trumps Pick for Ambassador to Australia? Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., the commander of the United States Pacific Command, is a vocal critic of Chinas military expansion in the region. (International)• Even Australias Medical Marijuana Poster Boy Cant Get the Drug: Though legal in Australia, medical marijuana is difficult to obtain. One teenager, Lindsay Carter, has become the face of the issue. (International)• Missing a Blue-Tongued Friend: A reader discovers her husband had a loyal companion while tending to his garden. (Australia Diary)• Their First Adventures Began on a Slow Bus: Two very different travelers find their way to love, with sojourns in Australia, the United States and Latin America. (Weddings)Advertisement• At New Zealand Trail Huts, Shelter, Conversation and Community: Sometimes theres solitude. Other times, lively discussions with new friends. And at every stop in the hut system theres the Intentions Book. Its must-reading. (Travel)______Break out your cameras, folks, and enter the Head On Photo Awards — Australias largest photo competition. Its your chance to win $60,000 in cash, prizes and space for exhibition in Sydney at this years festival in May.There are special categories for potraits, landscapes (like the winner above), mobile and for students too — and the great thing about it is that names and CVs are stripped off the entries. Its just the images that will make or break you so forget the networking, and start shooting!One of The New York Timess most talented photo editors, Mikko Takkunen, will be among the judges.Entries close Feb. 25.Damien Cave is the new Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. Hes covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Off the Menu By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 13, 2018
GEM The kitchen whiz-kid Flynn McGarry, who has been coming up with tasting menus for a cult following at pop-ups in Los Angeles and New York since he was 12, is aiming for permanence. Hes now 19, as slight as a reed, with hair like a tangle of spiralized carrots. His restaurant, in a pair of narrow storefronts on the Lower East Side, consists of the Living Room, an all-day cafe serving coffee, tea and pastries from morning until 5 p.m., which has just opened. In two weeks, the adjacent Dining Room will follow, with $155 (including tip) set-menu dinners. My idea is to make it like a dinner party, he said. So guests start with a glass of Champagne and hors doeuvres in the cafe before proceeding to the main room, with its simple wood tables and open kitchen, for an appetizers, followed by a couple of family-style platters of pasta and meat, like a lamb feast, with side dishes. Appetizers might include peanut Ritz Crackers with foie gras, king crab with leeks and grapefruit, and slow-roasted sunchokes with pumpkin seed oil and apple. Mr. McGarry describes Daniel Humm of Eleven Madison Park and Ari Taymor of Alma in Los Angeles as mentors. They let me work in their kitchens, but gave me real responsibilities and taught me the business side, instead of just having me pluck herbs, he said. His Ritz Crackers are just the sort of thing Mr. Humm might serve: 116 Forsyth Street (Broome Street), no phone, gem-nyc.com.BASTA Heres another entry in the growing inventory of Israeli dining options from the chef Raz Shabtai, who grew up in Tel Aviv, learned to cook from his grandmother and worked at restaurants in Israel and with Meir Adoni at Nur in New York. His kosher (dairy) Mediterranean restaurant features charred eggplant carpaccio, shakshuka, several seafood preparations and North African dishes like fish with couscous. Long tables are set in a room with a brick oven for bread and pizza, an open kitchen, and vintage artifacts and fresh produce on display: 62 East 34th Street, 917-261-7352.MALA PROJECT Amelie Kangs East Village take-no-prisoners Chinese restaurant featuring dry pots dense with ingredients, is venturing to Midtown Manhattan, near Xian Famous Foods. It will offer a number of dishes for the lunch crowd with lamb or chicken-based combinations. (Opens Wednesday): 41 West 46th Street, 917-261-7520, malaproject.nyc.BOUCHERIE PARK AVENUE SOUTH The meat-focused brasserie that opened in the West Village in late 2016 will welcome a sibling near Union Square. Its a big place, like the original, finished in the Belle Époque style and serving French bistro fare. New, at this location, is a counter that specializes in charcuterie. (Wednesday): 225 Park Avenue South (18th Street), 212-353-0200, boucherie.nyc.AdvertisementTHE HARROW A former hardware store is now this new American restaurant with the chef Eric Thomas, formerly at Nice Matin, in the kitchen. Lobster pierogi, duck magret and a vegan Pavlova dessert with meringue made of aquafaba are some of his specialties. (Thursday): 720 10th Avenue (50th Street), 212-757-6977, theharrownewyork.com.AdvertisementBANZARBAR This new hideaway upstairs from Freemans Restaurant has a warm, vintage look. A mere 20 seats await customers for cocktails and small plates from 6 p.m. Thursdays through Saturdays only, by reservation: Freeman Alley, Rivington Street between Bowery and Chrystie Street, 212-420-0012, banzarbarnyc.com.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.SEAMORES UP TOP The focus on local fish continues in this branch of Seamores in a Midtown Manhattan food hall, where its the first tenant on the mezzanine level: Urbanspace Vanderbilt, 45th Street and Vanderbilt Avenue, urbanspacevanderbilt.com.QUALITY EATS The expansion of this group of creative steakhouses continues, with a new location in NoMad. (Friday): 3 East 28th Street, 212-257-8882, qualityeats.com.IVY STARK, who left New York for Chicago after a long stint as the executive chef of Dos Caminos, is back in town, now as a partner and the chef of John McDonalds El Toro Blanco. Shes been given the green light for a complete overhaul of the menu. Mexican food has been stuck in a rut, but with chefs like Enrique Olvera its ready to move forward, she said. She says she feels that there is now more freedom to create at the higher end, where strict authenticity was long required. Some of the dishes she will serve starting in early March will be mashed black beans on a corn masa base, a Mexican version of beef tartare; cauliflower fajitas; and chile-roasted fish with a cucumber and citrus slaw. A margarita? Hers will be made with cucumber and mint: 257 Avenue of the Americas (Bedford Street), 212-645-0193, eltoroblanconyc.com.N.Y. CAKE A sign in the window of this resource for bakers equipment and ingredients says the store is moving. Lisa Mansour, who owns the store and the cake-decorating school N.Y. Cake Academy, with her mother, Joan Mansour, said their lease was terminating. They have to vacate the premises by June. Were looking and hope to relocate nearby, Lisa Mansour said. We really need more space. She said they planned to have a storewide sale before closing the present location at 56 West 22nd Street. Their wholesale warehouse in Yonkers will continue to operate.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
DEREK M. NORMAN

FEB. 14, 2018
Good morning on this Valentines Day-Ash Wednesday.Its the biggest day of the year for roses.We traced a bouquet from Manhattans flower district back to the source, and it turns out that behind the collective show of love is a feat of logistics.It began last summer, at a flower farm around 9,000 feet above sea level, in the mountains of Ecuador, when a rose bush began to show buds, said Stephen Faitos, who runs Starbright Floral Design, a small shop in the flower district.About six months later, those buds were poised to bloom, and the farm opened an online auction in which florists across the world — including Starbright Floral Design, which Mr. Faitos runs with his father — could bid on the blossoms.The roses were then cut, setting the countdown clock ticking on their 19-day life span.They traveled by truck along winding mountain roads to Quito, were packed onto a cargo plane and flown to Miami, inspected by customs and United States Department of Agriculture officials, and flown that same day at La Guardia Airport.AdvertisementStarbrights drivers were waiting there with a refrigerated truck and chauffeured them into Manhattan, where they joined some 40,000 flowers from around South America that the shop had ordered for Valentines Day.AdvertisementThey included two dozen colors; 12 shades of red alone.The roses were all a little tired-looking from the journey, the florists said, so workers spent the next few days nursing them back to health — hydrating, cleaning and preening them before arranging them into $100 dozens to be delivered to New Yorkers.Perhaps, to you.Now, they have about a week before they wilt —  seven days is the typical postsale life expectancy of a rose. Most flowers, youre just enjoying the beauty of its death, Mr. Faitos told us.Still, theyve made it this far.Heres what else is happening:Mild and lovely, with a  high of 50.But grab an umbrella. It may rain later this evening.• In the first State of the City Speech of his final term, Mayor Bill de Blasio pledged that by the time he leaves office New York would be the fairest city in the country. [New York Times]• A federal lawsuit is challenging the Trump administration by arguing that marijuana should be legal under federal law. [New York Times]• Bob Hugin, a former pharmaceutical executive, announced he was running for the Republican nomination in New Jersey for the Senate seat held by Robert Menendez. [New York Times]• Ahmad Khan Rahimi, the man responsible for building and planting the bomb that exploded in Manhattan in 2016, was sentenced to two life terms. [New York Times]Advertisement• For the second time in two months, a federal judge issued an injunction that ordered the Trump administration to keep the DACA program in place. [New York Times]• As DreamYard Preparatory, a once failing high school, makes significant improvements, school officials want to ensure that they sustain its progress. [New York Times]• A police sergeant who fatally shot a mentally ill woman took the stand, telling the court that he tried to prevent her from picking up a pair of scissors. [New York Times]• Despite a large housing stock, there is still a low vacancy rate throughout the five boroughs, a new report from New York City Housing Preservation and Development shows. [Metro New York]• Inside one of Bushwicks only remaining tortilla factories. [Bushwick Daily]• For the second year in a row, Jersey City has been named the most diverse city in the country, the financial services website WalletHub has found. [NJ.com]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Hands Full• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• New York Road Runners hosts a singles jog and mixer at the RunCenter in Midtown. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• See Alan Cumming perform in Many Fathoms Deep, a Valentines Day show of song, spoken word and cabaret, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on the Upper East Side. 7 p.m. [Tickets start at $75]• Celebrate love with laughs at Looking for Love in All the Love Places or Be Mine: Improvisers and Their Real-Life Valentines, at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Hells Kitchen. 8 and 9:30 p.m. [$9]Advertisement• ... Or at a Valentines Day stand-up comedy showcase at Q.E.D. in Astoria, Queens. 9 p.m. [$10]• Looking ahead: On Thursday morning, Exerskate, a fitness class for experienced skaters, on the rink at Bryant Park in Midtown. 8 a.m. [Free]• Nets host Pacers, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks host Wizards, 7:30 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking is suspended.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.The overlap of Valentines Day and Ash Wednesday may cause a quandary for some.Still, many observant Catholics in the city will be wearing ash crosses on their brows.Have you ever wondered where the ash came from?We put that question to the Archdiocese of New York, which oversees St. Patricks Cathedral in Manhattan and nearly 300 other congregations around the city.The ashes are derived from the remaining palms from the previous years Palm Sunday service, said Mercedes Lopez-Blanco, a spokeswoman for the archdiocese.The fronds of the palms are burned, a process that takes place offsite — sometimes as far away as Florida — where they are incinerated in an open fire, collected and shipped back to the city.AdvertisementBefore todays ceremony at St. Patricks, the sacristan, or church preparer, prepared 25 plates of ash. The ashes were to be blessed by the priest at 7 oclock this morning, just before Mass.About 50,000 New Yorkers receive ashes from the cathedral on Fifth Avenue each year, Ms. Lopez-Blanco told us, and the archdiocese is expecting a similar turnout today.The message that comes with the cross: Remember, man, that thou art dust, and into dust thou shalt return.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Alexandra S. Levine contributed reporting.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
DEREK M. NORMAN

FEB. 15, 2018
Good morning on this gray but springlike Thursday.Behind a small storefront on Mott Street, in Chinatown, every inch has been turned over to Lunar New Year decorations: long-stringed lanterns, banners and paper charms celebrating the Year of the Dog, which kicks off on Friday.But typically, the patrons come here for something else entirely: namely, to do their laundry.Jie Li, at 126 Mott Street, advertises Wash & Fold, Self & Full Service on its blue awning. For eight weeks, however, it has stocked items such as red and gold luck and prosperity charms and souvenir cards for homes and businesses, as well as for use at the Lunar New Year parade, which will wend its way through the neighborhood on Friday.On Wednesday, a few laundromat patrons had to wedge their way between half a dozen customers paying for knickknacks and cartoon dog cards around the entrance.Inside, people sifted through boxes, as employees did double-duty watching over goods and working as cashiers.AdvertisementIn the basement, where washers and dryers line the walls, more tables had been set up, and a frustrated-looking patron unloaded a dryer and pushed past carrying her clothes out in a faded pink bag.My mom is the real entrepreneur, said Jason Luo, 24, who runs the familys second business, a gadget shop, a few blocks away.AdvertisementShe knows a business cant survive on one single thing. And if you have room, you should utilize it.Heres what else is happening:Way warm. Mid-April warm. Sixty-three degrees warm, though cloudy.Rain tonight, slightly less warm tomorrow, and then it gets cold again. February!• A state commission that oversees the citys jail system may move to close Rikers Island ahead of the citys 10-year timeline. [New York Times]• Railway workers filed a lawsuit against New York & Atlantic Railway, its parent company and three officials, accusing them of discrimination and underpaying employees. [New York Times]• Five people were killed in a four-vehicle crash involving a stolen car and an oil truck on Long Island, the authorities said. [New York Times]• Hoping to accelerate the closing of Rikers Island, officials announced that they had chosen sites for four new jails, one in each borough except Staten Island. [New York Times]Advertisement• The city agency that investigates allegations of police abuse has added a layer of oversight to address accusations of sexual harassment and abuse. [New York Times]• Two months after Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that the schools chancellor, Carmen Fariña, would retire, the spot remains unfilled. [New York Times]• State regulators will investigate reports that gay men have been denied insurance policies because they were taking medication to protect themselves against H.I.V. [New York Times] • New York City is the most expensive city in which to get married, with the average Manhattan wedding costing a whopping $76,944. [Pix 11]• A look at what makes the New York City pigeon so distinctive. [WNYC]• A new lawsuit contends that millions of tickets automatically issued by New York City speed cameras are invalid because of a technical error. [AM New York]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Countdown to Agony• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• A Celebration of the Blues, a Black History Month exhibition by the citys Parks Department, at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. [Free]• A viewing party and panel discussion on the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics — exploring politics, capitalism and Korea — at Rosa Luxemburg Stiftung in Midtown. 6 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P. here]• Learn about creating a mural at your community garden, with a talk by the citys Parks Department and local artists, at Groundswell in Gowanus, Brooklyn. 6:30 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• Docents from the Madame Tussauds wax museum in Times Square star in a comedy show bringing the figures to life, at the Peoples Improv Theater Loft in Chelsea. 9:30 p.m. [$8]• Looking ahead: On Sunday, Allergic to Salad hosts a farm-to-table family cooking class at the Queens Botanical Garden in Flushing.• Rangers vs. Islanders, 7 p.m. (MSG). Devils host Hurricanes, 7 p.m. (MSG+).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Friday.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Were you born during the Year of the Dog?That would include 1934, 1946, 1958, 1970, 1982, 1994, 2006 and 2018, as of Friday. (The next one wont be until 2030.)But all are welcome to celebrate.On Friday, the Firecracker Parade and Cultural Festival takes place in Manhattan from 11 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., hosted by the Better Chinatown Society.This weekend, the Lunar New Year Parade and Festival will march through Flushing, Queens, from 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., kicking off at St. Georges Episcopal Church.And the iconic Chinatown parade will be held on Sunday, Feb. 25, in the heart of Manhattans Chinatown.AdvertisementNew York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Restaurant Review By                     
 PETE WELLS
 
FEB. 13, 2018

CreditCasey Kelbaugh for The New York Times        I had eaten approximately 300 miles of cold sesame noodles before I knew they had a story. If Id thought about them at all, I would have reflected that everything has a story, but I didnt. Back in the 1980s, when I came to New York, they were simply a thing you had to order with Chinese takeout because somebody always wanted them, even though they usually tasted like leftover spaghetti with Skippy.Before this, though, cold sesame noodles in New York were the specialty of one particular Sichuan-born chef, Yu Fa Tang. Called Shorty by everybody, Tang came here in the early 60s after working for more than a decade in Taiwan. By 1967 he had his own restaurant on East Broadway, Hwa Yuan Szechuan Inn, where among other renditions of Sichuanese food he made cold sesame noodles that would lodge themselves in the memories of generations of New Yorkers and be imitated, lamentably, by takeout cooks all over town. At its peak it reportedly went through 500 pounds of noodles a day.For more details on the background of the dish and its life after the restaurant closed, I refer you to a 2007 treatise that Sam Sifton wrote in The New York Times Magazine. For a taste of the original and unexpurgated recipe, I refer you to the very good new restaurant that opened on the site of the original in October. Its name now shortened to Hwa Yuan Szechuan, it is worth visiting for reasons that go well beyond nostalgia.Hwa Yuan is an imposing restaurant, built by Shortys son Chien Lieh Tang and his grandson James Tang to plant the family name solidly in this century. To the left of the entrance is a lounge where translucent backlit panels cast everything in a streaked-marmalade glow. Straight ahead is the first dining room, and there are more up the stairs to the right.AdvertisementThe tables sit under white cloths, and the places are set with white china traced with gold. To the right of the plates are two pairs of chopsticks on a white-china rest, one for serving and the other for eating.Needless to say, the cold sesame noodles are mandatory, at least on a first visit. They are, for one thing, truly cold. Not left-out-on-the-counter cold, but trickling-mountain-spring cold. The temperature accentuates their smooth surface and, like the slivers of cucumber, makes the small zap of chile oil call out more clearly. The first time I ate them the sauce needed a little more salt and vinegar, but the next time it had a finely balanced tension. If you know only the sugary peanut-butter imitation, tasting Hwa Yuans original must be like hearing Van Morrison for the first time when youve grown up on Ed Sheeran.AdvertisementChien Lieh Tang is the chef at the resurrected Hwa Yuan, and although his cooking is not hard to appreciate, a little orientation may help. First, a warning: Those who believe that the only good Sichuan food makes you weep, sniffle, moan, call 911 or crawl under the table will need to adjust their standards. Hwa Yuan serves many family recipes that reflect an earlier stage of Sichuan cooking and Shorty Tangs time in Taiwan. While chiles are often present, they rarely dominate. Nor does the kitchen try to lard extra umami into every dish. The best food at Hwa Yuan tries to impress through charm, not arm-twisting.Family pride being the point here, dishes that carry the names Tang or Hwa Yuan tend to be excellent. Not, Im afraid, the Hwa Yuan dry-aged shell steak, which got impressive flavor from basting with marrow but was knotted with tough membranes when I tried it.But Tangs Amazing Spicy Wine Chicken was a treat, very tender hunks of dark meat in a delicate sauce of Shaoxing rice wine, bean paste and chile oil. Tangs Amazing Tofu was a minor discovery, seared squares of pressed tofu with fresh green chiles in a sauce thats more interesting than youd guess from its pale tan color. Hot Tang Tang noodles may sound like cold sesame noodles run through the microwave; they are something completely different, short strands of noodle in a steaming cup of sour-and-spicy broth that has a businesslike edge of roasted dried chiles.And Whole Fish with Hot Bean Sauce, Tang Family Creation is a bona fide star, the dish I know Ill order again even if Im not in the mood for cold noodles. It had a devoted following at the original restaurant, where it was made with carp. Now it is barramundi, precisely cooked and resting in a rusty mash of chile oil, fermented soybeans and chopped scallions. Its a forceful dish thats still noteworthy for its balance.As for the Hwa Yuan crab cake, I have no idea whether it lives up to the name. The kitchen was always out of it, along with such other intrigues as duck liver pâté and foie gras with fruit.The other major warning: My Peking duck did not deserve the fanfare it gets on the menu, where it is called Beijing duck. I phoned ahead to reserve a duck and a half for a large group, was told on arrival that the half duck wasnt available, settled for the whole duck, and found that it wasnt worth ordering in advance, or the $65 it cost. The carving was imprecise enough to make me glad it was only a roast duck under the knife and not a heart-surgery patient, and while the meat was juicy, pink and flavorful, the skin was flabby and as crisp as boiled spinach.AdvertisementLess heralded menu entries warrant a look, though. There is no reason to believe that soup dumplings, which arrived in New York by way of Shanghai long after Shorty Tangs heyday, will be any good at Hwa Yuan. They are. So are the thick and juicy pan-fried dumplings.I can never resist snow-pea shoots, and have never come across any as delicious as Hwa Yuans. The dry-sautéed string beans are about average, but stir-fried brussels sprouts with bacon is a rewarding variation on Sichuanese cabbage with pork.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sichuan cooks seem to have a special understanding of potatoes, which may explain why the little marble-size ones here, cooked kung pao style with peanuts and dried chiles, are so unusually good.I hope to fake my way into reproducing the dish at home, which would make me the latest in a long line of Hwa Yuan imitators.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.42 East Broadway(Catherine Street)Chinatown212-966-6002hwayuannyc.comAtmosphere Among the most dressed-up restaurants in Chinatown, though not stuffily formal. Service is welcoming and helpful, especially about recommending house specialties.Sound Soft, with a flashback soundtrack of what used to be called dinner music.Recommended Dishes Cold noodles with sesame sauce; pork xiao long bao; pan-fried dumplings; kung pao baby mixed potatoes; supreme broth with snow pea sprouts; Tangs Amazing Tofu; whole fish with hot bean sauce; house special Hunan chicken; Tangs Amazing Spicy Wine Chicken; hot Tang Tang noodles. Appetizers, $10 to $18; main courses, $16 to $38 or more for market-price seafood.Drinks and Wine The wine list and bar selection are dutiful, if not revelatory.Price $$$ (expensive)Open Daily for lunch and dinner.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access Dining area and accessible restroom on street level.
What the Stars Mean
            Ratings range from zero to four stars. Zero is poor, fair or satisfactory. One star, good. Two stars, very good. Three stars, excellent. Four stars, extraordinary.
        
                This information was last updated: Feb. 13, 2018 Email petewells@nytimes.com. And follow Pete Wells on Twitter: @pete_wells.A version of this review appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Cold Sesame Noodles Are Still a Must at This Dynasty.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
FEB. 13, 2018
Good morning on this chilly Tuesday.You might have stepped on several.Theyre pink, blue, yellow and green, and drawn in a single swoop.Theyre hearts, ranging from the size of a quarter to the size of a quarter block, and for about three years, a street artist has anonymously drawn as many as 100 a day on the sidewalks of downtown Manhattan.We got a tip, and tracked him down.Hash Halper, 38, drew his first hearts in 2014 while working at Kossars Bagels & Bialys on the Lower East Side, he said. The reason I started drawing hearts all over the city is because I fell in love with a woman.Mr. Halper was raised in modern Orthodox communities in Philadelphia and Washington Heights, and attended Yeshiva University before becoming less religious in his 20s and later finding work at the bagel store.AdvertisementAfter he met the woman, he would pay homage to her by writing her initials, MSB, along with hearts, on the sidewalks and buildings that lay along his route to work.AdvertisementI wanted to infuse that romance into the city, he said.They stopped seeing each other; he left Kossars to help produce art shows and work as a deliveryman at Postmates. But he continued the project, which he calls New York Romantic.He draws all these hearts, he said, because he feels New York is losing its romance, with people holding phones instead of looking at each other.He also hopes that chalking hearts (and words like love, peace,dream and respect) around the city might influence New Yorkers behavior and decisions.At first, his street art mainly influenced the decisions of police officers, who arrested him several times before he switched to colored sidewalk chalk from spray chalk, and to sidewalks from buildings and scaffolding.His punishment was community service. Drawing hearts is community service, Mr. Halper said, so its ironic to get community service for something that you feel is a community service.The police dont bother Mr. Halper much these days, but he is still occasionally approached by an officer, he said.I say, Youre a cop? Are you in a relationship? Whats your emotional problem? Why are you so upset about a heart?AdvertisementIn preparation for Valentines Day, Mr. Halper will be chalking hearts around SoHo today, on Broadway between Canal and Houston Streets.Heres what else is happening:Bundle up — wind chills are in the teens this morning. Then a bright afternoon, with a high of 36.Warmer weather awaits on Wednesday.• Water, 13 million gallons of which is pumped out on a regular dry day, consistently plagues an already crumbling transit system. [New York Times]• Donald Trump Jr.s wife opened an envelope containing a suspicious white powdery substance. It turned out to be cornstarch. [New York Times]• Mayor Bill de Blasio, who faced ethical questions over his political fund-raising, will tackle campaign finance in his annual address. [New York Times]• A judge awarded $6.7 million to 21 graffiti artists whose works were destroyed at 5Pointz in Queens. [New York Times]• A federal judge overseeing a corruption case will allow the governments key witness to wear a suit in court — rather than jail attire. [New York Times]• Ash Wednesday and Valentines Day fall on the same day this year. Whats a good Christian to do? [New York Times]Advertisement• Andy King, a Bronx councilman, was ordered to undergo sensitivity and ethics training after a harassment complaint made by a female staffer. [New York Times]• Puerto Rican refugees from Hurricane Maria whove been living in hotel rooms in New York paid for by the federal government are running out of time. [New York Times]• Streets in East New York, Sheepshead Bay and Washington Heights are among the citys worst for vehicle break-ins, a new report found. [New York Post]• In New Jersey, the black infant mortality rate is three times higher than it is for white infants. [NJ.com]• A hunt for the worst post office in the city. [Patch]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Stockpiling SympathyPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Celebrate Mardi Gras with the trumpeter Joey Morant and his band as they play New Orleans-style jazz and blues at Brownsville Recreation Center in Brooklyn. Noon. [Free] ...• ... Or at a Fat Tuesday celebration with live soul and jazz music at Brooklyn Bowl in Williamsburg. 8 p.m. [$12]• Measure your spellcheck dependency at an adults-only New York City Spelling Bee at Caveat on the Lower East Side. 7:30 p.m. [$15 to spell; $7 to watch]• Looking ahead: Feb. 15 is the deadline to apply for the 2018 New York City marathon. You can enter the drawing or claim guaranteed entry here.• Islanders host Blue Jackets, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Devils at Flyers, 7 p.m. (MSG+2). Rangers at Wild, 8 p.m. (MSG).Advertisement• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Wednesday.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.The roses, the chocolates, the love notes, the prix fixe menus — for some, its all a little ... triggering.One antidote: Broken Heart Week, a series of book talks, meditation workshops and performances hosted by Queens Library that aims to deliver catharsis for New Yorkers who have loved and lost.The series, which began on Sunday, continues at locations across the system.Today and tomorrow, you can join a health program exploring Seasonal Affective Disorder.On Thursday, you can see a one-woman show about the tale of Venus and Adonis or Campfire Heartbreak, a concert (and time to vent) with comforting country music.This weekend, you can attend a stand-up comedy show about love (or the lack thereof), and discussions with medical professionals about the science behind heartbreak.The full schedule is here.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Alexandra S. Levine contributed reporting.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By KEVIN DRAPER and SAPNA MAHESHWARIFEB. 13, 2018
Each day of the Winter Olympics, NBC reports how many viewers watched the previous nights coverage, and analysts and television executives try to divine what those numbers mean.But NBC isnt presenting traditional Nielsen ratings, the television standard for decades. Instead, for prime-time viewing, the network primarily cites a recently created standard of its own making called total audience delivery, or TAD. It takes the ratings from the broadcast channel NBC and cable channels like NBCSN that are showing the Olympics and combines them with viewership across various streaming platforms to produce one number.NBCs number-crunching is only partly a marketing campaign. It is principally the latest attempt at a valid head count in an industry where no one seems to be able to measure the crowd. Viewers are spread too far and wide, no longer huddled around the TV.NBC also used TAD during the Rio Olympics two years ago, but this is the first time it has sold advertising based on it. Guarantees to advertisers about how many people will watch commercials will be based on TAD, not Nielsen household ratings. As television audiences shrink, that is a big deal for the network, which says its national ad sales for the Winter Games recently passed $900 million. And NBC Universal has committed $8 billion for the media rights to the Olympics through 2032.AdvertisementAdvertisers now recognize that a viewer is a viewer, said Dan Lovinger, NBC Sports executive in charge of sales. He eschewed the idea that there is a fundamental difference between television and digital viewers. What we are doing now is adding it all together and treating a viewer as a viewer.For decades Nielsen produced easy-to-compare measurements of how many people watched a program and what percentage of American households they represented. But an exploding array of technologies — first TiVo and other digital video recorders, and now streaming players like Rokus, computers and phones — has fragmented viewing across dozens of different platforms, a large factor in the broad decline in television ratings.AdvertisementWith billions of dollars in commercial time at stake, content providers, and especially media companies that own expensive sports rights, have raced to keep up. Scripted programming can have a long shelf life and be sold over time in a variety of ways, but the vast majority of sports is watched live, which means broadcasters need to capture every viewer possible and figure out how to count them.The catch is that they arent yet in agreement on how to do that.In order for the industry to move forward, we have to coalesce around a single-source approach, said Cary Meyers, head of ESPNs consumer-research division, where the network is working directly with Nielsen on a live audience metric  that would be a different version of TAD.NBC appears unwilling to take any chances with the Winter Games, particularly after facing an unexpected decline in traditional, or linear, TV ratings in Rio, when it had to offer free commercial time to advertisers to meet its ratings guarantees. Streaming surged during that period.Linda Yaccarino, NBC Universals head of ad sales, has been a vocal critic of Nielsen in recent years, saying that the measurement companys methods dont accurately count all the new ways people are watching its shows. Network complaints have grown louder as the legacy media companies battle falling ratings and new competition for ad dollars from the likes of Facebook and YouTube, which is owned by Google.Nielsen ratings for traditional television are based upon averaging every minute of viewing by a representative panel. NBC combines Nielsens measures for its television channels with Adobes measurement of streaming data to form TAD.Advertising technology is changing constantly, and Nielsen has to carefully decide when a metric is ready for mainstream adoption. Megan Clarken, Nielsens president of United States media (and at one time an Olympic-qualifying long jumper), said that a decade ago the company faced pressure to enter mobile measurement. If it had done so, Nielsen would have been pushing ultimately useless metrics to measure viewing on BlackBerry phones.AdvertisementWhat we do as a company is we watch for that activity, that evolution, she said, and what we aim to do is not be ahead of it, but be with it, and certainly not behind it.While analysts said it was smart of NBC to push its own metric for the Games, it is also the right move for Nielsen to proceed carefully as it develops an industry standard for tracking viewers across a dizzying array of consumer devices in the digital world, said Dave Morgan, the founder and chief executive of Simulmedia.Everybody in the digital video industry is pretty much in agreement that 30 to 40 percent of the ad impressions that are delivered out there dont really exist, said Mr. Morgan, whose firm works with brands on targeted TV ads. Yet nobody would say 30 to 40 percent of TVs viewing audience doesnt exist. So I think Nielsen is very, very afraid of going into a Wild West environment where it is wide open to fraud and bots.According to Nielsen, while measuring authentic digital viewing is difficult, it is no more difficult than doing so for television. But despite the ambiguity of the measuring sticks, advertisers dont want to miss an opportunity to impress a mass audience over 17 days.You dont necessarily want to sit on the sidelines because, Hey — funky measurement, said Gibbs Haljun, managing director of media investment at GroupM, the media-buying arm of WPP. That sort of defeats the point of what theyre trying to do.For 19 days, our Sports newsletter will be all things Olympics. Youll get the best from Pyeongchang: The events to watch, the stories to read and more.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While NBC sees a strong need for better measurement of non-television viewers, especially in sports, it wont necessarily be rolling out TAD across the NBC universe. The Olympics are a unique property, with thousands of hours of programming playing out on broadcast and cable channels, unlike a hit drama like This Is Us, which would never be shown across a broadcast and cable channel simultaneously.The Olympics is the perfect petri dish for audience measurement, said Mr. Lovinger of NBC. The networks traditional television ratings during the Rio Games were down 15 percent compared with the London Games four years earlier, and since the network had made separate linear and digital ratings guarantees for Rio, it was left without the ability to manage delivery across the Games, Mr. Lovinger said.You look at the Olympics in Rio and you look at the kind of decline in linear television viewing and the supplement of digital viewing, either simultaneous or delayed, and it is obviously a material difference, said David Cohen, president of North America at Magna Global, a major ad-buying firm.AdvertisementSo far, TAD seems to be doing its job. Across the first four nights of the Olympics, ratings for NBC only were down 15 percent from the comparable nights in Sochi four years ago. But the total audience was down just 7 percent. NBC said it is meeting its ratings guarantees, and has begun selling extra ad inventory that it had held back in case of falling short.Mr. Haljun said that the timing is right for NBCs metric this year, but doesnt see it as a long-term solution.Were at this weird point where people agree there needs to be a certified third-party number thats comparable across networks, Mr. Haijun said.But were in the early days of getting there, he added. People are doing different things and have disagreements on the best way to do this.An earlier version of this article misstated the event in which Megan Clarken qualified for the Olympics. It was the long jump, not the high jump.A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 2018, on Page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: With Billions at Stake, NBC Counts Its Eyeballs Carefully.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byHere and NowBy Judy BermanHere and Now is going to be a weird show. That much is implied in the first moments of the series premiere, as a barrage of apparently unrelated images flashes across the screen, followed by a shot of a woman and a little boy playing on the beach. The camera quivers. The sound skips like an old record. The woman gasps, removes her sunglasses, calls out the name Ramon and scratches four long, deep gashes into her own face with her fingernails. She says something in a language that isnt English. Its as though weve entered some new Twin Peaks lodge.But, phew, its nothing more than a dream. Or, at least, it seems that way when Ramon Bayer-Boatwright (Daniel Zovatto), a college student who designs video games, awakens in his Portland, Ore., apartment. That same morning, he summons the courage to take his flirting to the next level with Henry Bergen (Andy Bean), a bearded barista who might be Ramons soul mate and who is surprisingly eager to accompany him to his fathers 60th birthday party that evening.Its a good day. The only thing that seems off about it is that Ramon keeps seeing the number 11:11. First its a clock in the coffee shop. Then its the dashboard of his elliptical, at the gym, which freezes 11 minutes and 11 seconds into his workout. After a few of these scenes, it occurred to me that the four gashes from his dream also resembled four ones. Ramon tells Henry about a website that claims that people who are contacted by the number 11:11 have some positive mission to accomplish. They laugh it off in bed, joking that their hookup is that mission.Still, the extent to which this show is going to be weird doesnt become clear until the final ten minutes of the episode. At the party, as his depressive philosophy professor father, Greg Boatwright (Tim Robbins), delivers an uncomfortably pessimistic speech, Ramon has a vision. There are four candles on top of a bookshelf, and their flames seem to stretch into, yes, four long, straight, blazing lines. No one else sees it.This tragicomic scene, in which Ramon interrupts Gregs sad-sack monologue by screaming, cursing and hallucinating, is emblematic of what Here and Now seems to be: a pointedly contemporary family drama with supernatural elements. And, if this set piece is any indication, those two facets of the story wont always coexist so comfortably.The episode plays like a sort of Alan Ball greatest-hits medley. Ball scripted the Oscar-winning suburban lament American Beauty, then created the classic family drama Six Feet Under and the less-classic vampire soap True Blood for HBO. His shows all have political overtones (in True Blood, vampires come out to humans), and he loves using families as a prism through which to view American life. At his best, Ball creates characters that feel as lovably imperfect as your own parent or sibling; other times, it can feel as if hes screaming liberal talking points through the screen.Its intriguing, then, that the family he chose to put at the center of Here and Now, his return to HBO after a brief four-year absence, is the living embodiment of white liberal guilt. Greg made his name as a philosopher, decades ago, with a book called A Laypersons Guide to the Here and Now. His sycophantic teaching assistant gushes to him about the way you marry Epicureanism with presentism, then reboot them both into something deeply, deeply moral. Well surely learn more about Gregs views as the season goes on, but for now, it sounds as if his ideas were about finding pleasure through focusing on the present, without allowing oneself to become a selfish jerk. That was before life in the 21st century plunged him into a moral crisis. Now, hes mourning his idealistic youth, visiting a prostitute once a week and sobbing on the way home.Gregs wife, Audrey Bayer-Boatwright (the great Holly Hunter), is his opposite — energetic while hes chronically lethargic, controlling while hes out of control, obsessively involved in her childrens lives while he barely acknowledges their existence. Twenty years ago, Audrey gave up her therapy practice to found something called the Empathy Project. She wants her sons new lover, Henry, to be her best friend, because thats just how cool she is with having a gay son. And although shes the kind of upper-middle-class white person who cant throw a house party without bringing in caterers, she does speak to them in fluent Spanish.In his speech, to his kids understandable annoyance, Greg refers to their family as this great experiment. Three of the four Bayer-Boatwright children were adopted from countries wronged by the United States. Ramon was born in Colombia. His elder siblings, Ashley (Jerrika Hinton), from Liberia, and Duc (Raymond Lee), from Vietnam, envy him. They call him Baby Jesus because, as Duc explains over drinks with Ashley and the male model she brought along from work, their parents just calmed down after they adopted Ramon. He didnt have to wear the national costumes Audrey forced on the older kids, maybe because he looked WASP white.Their parents well-meaning attention to Ashleys and Ducs origins have apparently made them both fixated on and resistant to their racial and ethnic identities. They tease each other with slurs like angry black woman and ching chong Viet Cong. Ashley changed her name, at 18, from one of African origin to what she calls the whitest name I can think of. Shes married to a kind, dull white man, the father of her young daughter, and she has a job thats very different from her parents do-gooder professions: She works in the fashion industry. Duc, for his part, is so hungry for his dads approval that hes become a motivational architect, feeding clients a simplified version of Gregs philosophy with slogans like, See it, want it, have it. Also, hes celibate.Ramons messianic nickname, and his soothing effect on his parents, may well turn out to have some connection to this 11:11 story line. But for now, whats clear is that there are two factions among the kids: Ashley with Duc, and Ramon with his 17-year-old sister, Kristen (Sosie Bacon), who idolizes Ramon. As their parents sole biological child, she has a complex about being the boring white chick in the family. So she escapes from herself, smoking weed, making fake Facebook accounts and wandering around Gregs party with a rubber horse mask on her head. When she loses her virginity with Ashleys model, he doesnt seem to mind that she stays in disguise the entire time.All of this — the characters, their secrets and hangups, the supernatural stuff — adds up to a fairly overstuffed premiere. And thats before Ramon visits the office of Dr. Farid Shokrani (Peter Macdissi), a psychiatrist who has a photo of the same scene (minus the torn-open face) Ramon saw in his dream. The woman, Dr. Shokrani says, is his mother. Thats where the episode ends, although HBO has said that Here and Now will follow the doctors family, too, so well surely learn more about them soon.In the meantime, Im ambivalent. Ball wrote and directed the premiere, which accounts for the strong dialogue. I find Ramon and Audrey fascinating, and Kristen reminds me of Lauren Ambroses Claire Fisher, the wonderfully angsty teen daughter from Six Feet Under. I loved the conversation in which she reminds her mom, I am my own person who is not you. Audrey and Duc havent entirely come into focus yet, and Greg is a bit of a sulky, baby boomer dad cliché. (In American Beauty terms, hes a Lester Burnham for Trumps America.)Most of all, Im worried the 11:11 stuff and the Bayer-Boatwright saga will never meld into one coherent story. The first episode of Here and Now held my attention, though, and thats all a pilot needs to do.Advertisement

 Eduardo Porter
 

ECONOMIC SCENE
FEB. 13, 2018
Stocks are too expensive.This is not a market forecast. I wouldnt be particularly surprised if the Dow shrugged off its recent turbulence and continued its long upward thrust. What I contend is that if the American economy behaved in the way that most economists say market economies should, stocks would in all likelihood be cheaper.It is a grim proposition. Wall Streets titans might welcome the fact that equity prices have grossly exceeded what a well-functioning, competitive economy should deliver. But for almost everybody else, it amounts to a disaster. From wage stagnation to the depressed investment rates that are holding back long-term economic growth, many of the fault lines running through the American economy can be traced back to the same root cause powering the rise of Americas overpriced stocks.Consider a few facts. The average financial wealth of American households — the market value of housing, stocks, bonds, business assets and the like, beyond their liabilities — has grown much faster than the nations income over the last half-century.This would not be weird were American households saving more and investing their savings in productive ventures. They are not. The personal savings rate has declined sharply. The ratio of the capital stock — the value of factories, machines and such — to the nations economic output has actually declined a little since the 1970s.AdvertisementWhat has enhanced wealth in recent years is the huge rise in stock prices. The Standard & Poors 500-stock index increased 8 percent per year from 1970 to 2015, on average. According to an analysis by Germán Gutiérrez and Thomas Philippon of New York University, the ratio of the market value of American corporations to the replacement value of their capital stock has roughly tripled since the 1970s.AdvertisementWhat makes this particularly puzzling for scholars reared on the classical models of competitive economies is that all this happened despite a persistent decline in real interest rates. In a more orthodox economy, declining rates on corporate bonds would encourage a surge in corporate investment. As companies invested more and more capital, the returns on investments would gradually decline until companies returns matched their cost of capital: the interest rate they pay to borrow.
                Stock markets have recently fallen over fears that economic growth is too strong. Heres why, and one way how steep, sustained sell-offs could end up hurting the economy.            In the United States, neither has occurred. Investment has been stuck at stubbornly low rates. And even as interest rates have fallen, the average return on productive capital has stayed roughly constant.In a nutshell, the United States has built an economy where businesses dont invest even though it has rarely been cheaper to finance investment. Still, they reap spectacular profits that warrant runaway share prices.These are not your fathers growth facts, wrote Gauti Eggertsson, Jacob A. Robbins and Ella Getz Wold of Brown University in an analysis published this week by the Washington Center for Equitable Growth. The puzzling facts of contemporary America suggest an economy poised to fail.What happened? It turns out that there is one straightforward reason for the American economys unorthodox behavior. As Mr. Eggertsson and his colleagues argue, the standard economic theory based on competitive markets cannot apply when markets are not competitive. And competition, in the United States, is shriveling.The scholars argue that the American economy is afflicted by rents — returns in excess of what investments would yield in a competitive economy, where fat margins are quickly whittled away by competition.These rents dont fall from the sky. Companies free of competitive pressures, with the power to set prices more or less at will, squeeze them from their customers and their workers. They pad corporate profits and send stock prices sky high.
                Global inequality, after widening for decades, has stabilized. The share of the worlds income captured by the top 1 percent has shrunk since its peak on the eve of the financial crisis.            Executives love it. The critical question is what these rents hold in store for the rest of us.This doesnt necessarily mean, by the way, that the corporate landscape has been taken over by evil monopolists that resort to illegal tricks to keep competitors out. High-tech titans like Google and Facebook may just have the ability and the deep pockets to out-innovate everybody — delivering wonderful new experiences to consumers along the way, and maintaining monopoly control over their latest innovations. One intriguing theory is that the globalized economy is reorganizing the business landscape, encouraging the rise of corporate superstars.AdvertisementNot everybody agrees that competition is waning. Hal Varian, Googles chief economist, argues plausibly in a recent study that the case to worry about market concentration across the economy is weak. Even as concentration has increased in many sectors, there is plenty of competition in most industries and markets. Carl Shapiro, an antitrust scholar from the University of California, Berkeley, who served in President Barack Obamas Justice Department, worries that the new populism infecting American politics could prompt antitrust policy to take aim at all big successful companies.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, there are good reasons to worry about rising rents, no matter where they come from. Mr. Shapiro argues that while some measures of market concentration may not be meaningful, persistently high profits are of themselves a cause for concern.Profits as a share of output have risen by half over the last 30 years. Combined with evidence that large corporations are accounting for an increasing share of revenue and employment, Mr. Shapiro writes, it certainly appears that many large U.S. corporations are earning substantial incumbency rents, and have been doing so for at least 10 years, apart from during the depths of the Great Recession.This is particularly true in the tech sector, where a handful of dominant companies — you know the ones Im talking about — have sustained spectacular profits for years. Their sky-high stock prices suggest that investors expect high profits to continue as well.They probably are geniuses; what they are doing is wonderful, Mr. Shapiro told me. Still, you would expect competition to erode away the excess profits over time.Here is why we should worry.Mr. Eggertsson and his colleagues built an alternative model of the American economy by doing away with the assumption of perfect competition. They contend that there are barriers to entry that stop competitors and allow rents to persist.In this economy, stock prices dont just reflect the future stream of normal economic returns that would accrue to a companys capital investment. They also include a claim to a stream of rents that generate pure profits. These profits cant be replicated by another companys capital investment. They are owned by a specific company.So what features might an economy like this possess? Wages are unlikely to rise much in a job market dominated by a few big employers. As I speculated last week, markets dominated by a few businesses will most likely deter start-ups from appearing on the scene.AdvertisementRising rents will take larger shares of the nations income. That will bolster the proportion of income that goes to corporate profits but squeeze the share that flows to workers — in wages and benefits — and to productive capital. This will discourage both work and capital investment. It will weigh on overall economic growth.Rents interfere with incentives in a big way. Companies will spend more time and effort trying to preserve those rents — often by working to block rivals from their markets. Rivals will fight to grab a share of those rents for themselves, perhaps through lobbying. Amid all this jockeying, investment in productive capabilities will most likely be neglected as a secondary consideration.And inevitably, inequality will rise: The owners of the shares in the powerful corporations capturing the economys growing monopoly rents will peel further and further away from the average Jane and Joe, who own little but their labor.This is not the kind of economy proposed by classical economic theory. It is not the kind of country portrayed by evangelists of the American dream. But it looks as if we are stuck with it, regardless of what the stock market does tomorrow.Email: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardoA version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Stock Windfall for Titans, A Debacle for Everyone Else.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAVID M. HALBFINGERFEB. 14, 2018
JERUSALEM — As Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu fought back Wednesday against a police finding that he had accepted nearly $300,000 in bribes, his cool self-confidence betrayed not the slightest worry that he could be forced to step down anytime soon.The coalition is stable, and no one, me or anyone else, has plans to go to elections, he declared in Tel Aviv. We will continue to work together with you for the citizens of the State of Israel, until the end of our term, in late 2019.If Mr. Netanyahu had entered a dangerous new period in which he must battle for his political survival and avoid imprisonment, he did so possessed of political advantages that no Israeli prime minister has before enjoyed.Beloved by his base and respected even by his adversaries as a guardian of Israels security, Mr. Netanyahu remains the dominant figure on the Israeli stage, his combined 12 years as prime minister closing in on the record of David Ben-Gurion, Israels principal founder.AdvertisementAnd he has defended that position in part by steadily chipping away at the institutions that balance the powers of his office in ways that seem to echo the aggressive tactics of President Trump, except that he was doing it before there was a President Trump.AdvertisementHe and his governing coalition have campaigned to curb the activist Israeli judiciary, demonized the rambunctious press as a bastion of left-wing partisans, attacked the funding of nongovernmental organizations whose worldview they see as hostile and, as the police closed in, he has done his utmost to discredit them, too.I read the recommendations report, Mr. Netanyahu said Wednesday, referring to a lengthy summary of the evidence law enforcement investigators had amassed against him. I can say this is a slanted document, extreme, full of holes, like Swiss cheese, and holds no water.Mr. Netanyahu rode to power in 2009, after his predecessor, Ehud Olmert, faced indictment on charges of taking tens of thousands of dollars in cash payoffs. Mr. Olmert, who was deeply unpopular after leading Israel into a humiliating Lebanon war, was politically doomed the moment Israelis heard the news, but Mr. Netanyahu also has a far more commanding hold on power.Mr. Olmerts coalition had depended on the support of potent rivals like Tzipi Livni and former Prime Minister Ehud Barak, who pushed for Mr. Olmert to resign after his history of payoffs became known.But with no acknowledged successor of any stature waiting in line, Mr. Netanyahus coalition is essentially a captive to him.Much as Republicans in the United States Congress see Mr. Trump as their best shot of retaining power, even if they do not like everything about him, Mr. Netanyahus right-wing and ultra-Orthodox allies prefer Mr. Netanyahu, whatever his faults, to being shut out by a left-of-center government.Mr. Olmerts political base was less tolerant to allegations of corruption than Netanyahus, said Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank, while the more right-wing base is less open to any initiatives that may topple their leader.AdvertisementThere are other differences, including sheer shock value. News of Mr. Olmerts payoffs landed like a thunderbolt after surfacing in the unexpected testimony of his longtime benefactor in an open courtroom. But the outline and most of the details of Mr. Netanyahus alleged misdeeds have been dribbling out for more than a year through nearly daily leaks in the Israeli news media.Indeed, the biggest surprise contained in the recommendations the police released Tuesday night — saying there was evidence to prosecute Mr. Netanyahu on bribery, fraud and breach of trust charges — was that a key witness against him was a rival for his job, Yair Lapid, leader of the centrist Yesh Atid party.Mr. Lapid, who has been gaining strength in the polls, told investigators that, while finance minister in a previous coalition, he had opposed an effort by Mr. Netanyahu to enhance a tax benefit that would have benefited an Israeli movie producer. The police said that Mr. Netanyahus tax effort was in exchange for lavish gifts from the producer Arnon Milchan.Mr. Netanyahu and his allies sought to impeach Mr. Lapids testimony as nothing more than crass political self-interest.This is the same Lapid who promised to bring me down at any price, Mr. Netanyahu said.You are a lousy snitch, the head of the governing coalition, David Amsalem, called Mr. Lapid. Arent you ashamed?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Lapid said he had merely answered the questions investigators put to him, adding pointedly that Mr. Netanyahu needed to show responsibility by stepping down. It would be impossible for him to fulfill his duties, Mr. Lapid said in a video he posted on Facebook, while you are spending the majority of your time with lawyers and in responding to the press.He added: You cannot represent us in the world when every foreign leader that you meet knows you have been accused of serious offenses.There were also demands for Mr. Netanyahus resignation in the opposition and across much of the news media, and a demonstration against him was called for Friday in downtown Tel Aviv.As a legal matter, the case now goes to state prosecutors and the attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, a onetime Netanyahu aide. After closely supervising the investigation, Mr. Mandelblit will now decide whether to file formal charges. If he does, it will be a first against a sitting prime minister in Israel.AdvertisementGetting to that point, which would require a hearing at which Mr. Netanyahus lawyers could argue against indictment, could take months.As a political matter, however, Mr. Netanyahus right-leaning governing coalition holds just 66 of 120 seats in Parliament, so any cracks in solidarity could quickly prove fatal.Within 24 hours, however, three crucial partners had indicated that they would stay by Mr. Netanyahus side for the moment. The finance minister, Moshe Kahlon, whose center-right Kulanu party holds 10 seats, signaled late Tuesday that he would not make any decisions before the attorney generals decision on an indictment.Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman, whose Yisrael Beiteinu party has five seats, recalled how he was forced to resign as foreign minister after being indicted on corruption charges in 2012, but won acquittal and resumed his post a year later.This is why until a prime minister is convicted at court, he can continue, Mr. Lieberman said.The education minister, Naftali Bennett, who leads the right-wing Jewish Home party, which has eight seats, said that replacing the government should be done at the voting station.But he allowed that the police recommendations were harsh and called into question the prime ministers ability to be a leader and role model for the citizens of Israel.A prime minister is not meant to be perfect or live an over-modest lifestyle, but he needs to be someone people look at and say, This is how one should act, he said. Taking gifts in large sums over a long period of time is not living up to this standard.Speaking in Tel Aviv, Mr. Netanyahu did not dispute that he had accepted gifts from Mr. Milchan, the Hollywood producer, and James Packer, an Australian billionaire, but he accused the police of inflating their value in order to reach what he called a magic number, the figure of one million shekels, or about $283,000.AdvertisementWhile the police portrayed his connection to the Israeli-born Mr. Milchan as a bribery relationship, Mr. Netanyahu insisted they were longtime friends. And he said investigators had ignored two instances, involving an automotive company and a television channel, in which his actions had been adverse to Mr. Milchans business interests.How could I on the one hand be acting in Milchans favor and on the other against him? Mr. Netanyahu asked.Regardless of whether Mr. Netanyahu survives the scandal, many have warned that his efforts to sow doubts about the fairness and professionalism of Israeli law enforcement investigators could do lasting damage.When Ehud Olmert was forced to leave his post after an indictment was issued, that happened with full public confidence in the law enforcement agencies, the journalist Ben-Dror Yemini wrote in an op-ed article in Yedioth Ahronoth. If Netanyahu is forced to leave his post in the coming number of months, that will happen amid an awful crisis of confidence among his supporters, who arent exactly a negligible minority.Follow David M. Halbfinger on Twitter: @halbfinger.Isabel Kershner contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Netanyahu Vows to Stay as Prosecutors Consider Bribery Charges.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PATRICK BOEHLERFEB. 13, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.The latest from the Winter Olympics, Russian threats to block YouTube and South Africas leadership crisis. Heres the news:• Update from Pyeongchang: Russian nationalist fervor is very present, despite the official barring of many athletes over the countrys state-backed doping scheme. (Our Daily podcast has the best account yet of how that unfolded.)One of our most popular stories today is a throwback: In 1982, the Norwegian cross-country skier Oddvar Bra collided with a skier from the Soviet Union. Somehow, a national myth was born.Our columnist profiled Claudia Pechstein, a seven-time speedskating Olympian from Germany. Under normal circumstances, she would be a sentimental favorite, but her doping violation remains hard to ignore.Here are the schedule, medal count and live results, and an update on weather delays._____• Russia has threatened to block YouTube and Instagram if they do not take down content relating to Oleg Deripaska, a prominent oligarch. The tactic may signal a more aggressive approach by Moscow to rein in critical reports on social media.AdvertisementThe threat was set off by an investigation published last week by Aleksei Navalny, the opposition leader, on Mr. Deripaskas ties to a top government official. It has so far been viewed more than four million times on YouTube.AdvertisementSeparately, the U.S. and Russia revived a Cold War tit-for-tat game: Moscow is considering renaming an alley near the U.S. Embassy as 1 North American Dead End, after Washington renamed the Russian Embassys block for Boris Nemtsov, the slain government critic._____• The White Houses budget request included large increases for the military, deep cuts in domestic programs such as Medicaid, and money for a return to the moon. (Heres a detailed rundown, and reactions.)It has little chance of being enacted but illustrates how far Republicans have strayed from their embrace of balanced budgets.Ahead of the midterm elections, we look at where both parties stand now: The Republicans structural advantages in seeking control of the House are eroding. The fight remains a tossup._____• Anxiety and frustration among South Africans are deepening as they await news on when President Jacob Zuma is going to step down.The state broadcaster said that the leaders of the African National Congress, the governing party, had directed Cecil Ramaphosa, Mr. Zumas probable successor, to deliver a demand that he resign within 48 hours._____• Across Europe, aging societies are posing challenges to social systems that are already straining to meet the needs of todays older citizens.AdvertisementOur correspondent in Germany explored the issue at a cafeteria in Hamburg that has been a regular venue for some older residents of the citys poorest district. They appreciate its traditional German fare and affordable prices.One of its regulars worried that it, and similar canteens, would soon be gone, leaving a generation with nowhere to go for a square meal.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Chinas plan to become the worlds leader in artificial intelligence comes at a time when Americas technological edge has started to recede.• A court in Germany ruled that Facebooks default privacy settings violated consumer law. Facebook said it would appeal.• Universities in the U.S.  are trying to bring a more medicine-like morality to computer science.•  Heres a snapshot of global markets.• A huge oil spill — one unlike any before — is beginning to contaminate some of the most crucial fishing grounds in Asia. [The New York Times]• In Italy, a museums promotional discount for Arabic speakers has enraged some far-right politicians, who are seeking to capitalize on anti-immigrant sentiment ahead of March 4 elections. [The New York Times]•  Ukraine deported Mikheil Saakashvili, the former president of Georgia who has waged a popular anticorruption campaign in Ukraine, to Poland. [The New York Times]Advertisement• In Britain, the resignation of Oxfams deputy chief executive is unlikely to quell growing outrage over revelations about the misconduct of some of the charitys aid workers. [The New York Times]• A court in France began hearing money laundering charges against a man who admitted in a memoir to having participated in a 1976 heist. [France 24]• Visiting Egypt, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson avoided even mild criticism of the political repression that assures President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of being re-elected next month. [The New York Times]• Hard-liners in Iran are attacking environmental activists, arresting several and accusing them of spying. [The New York Times]• Londons City Airport was shut down when a German bomb from World War II was found during construction work. The airport will be operating as usual today. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Want a more perfect union? Act (within limits) like youre single.• Studies on giving up saturated fats often failed to consider what people ate in their place.• For Mardi Gras, you cant go wrong with a chicken and sausage gumbo.• Newly unveiled official portraits of Barack and Michelle Obama caused a stir. They are strikingly different from their predecessors. (Portrait painting is generally making a comeback.)Advertisement• For the first time since 1945, Ash Wednesday and Valentines Day fall on the same day. Some Christians face a culinary dilemma.• Thousands of dogs have been checked into New York hotels ahead of the annual Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. Heres our full coverage of the canine high society.• A cognitive prosthetic in the brain promises to help people store some memory, scientists have found. But the road to perfecting recollections remains daunting.• And shes off! Our new 52 Places travel columnist — who beat out more than 13,000 other applicants for the job — has started her whirlwind world tour. She found plenty to celebrate in New Orleans.As the end of a particularly bad flu season approaches in many parts of the world, youre probably accustomed to hearing achoo!But cultures respond to sneezes differently, and theres little consensus on how some of those norms developed.While its unnecessary in Japan and parts of China to comment, many countries use a version of (God) bless you.The sneezers welfare is the main concern. Germans say gesundheit (health), while Turks say çok yaşa (may you live long).AdvertisementSometimes the response is dictated by the number of sneezes. In parts of Latin America, the first sneeze is met with health, the second with money and the third with love. The Dutch wish you health for your first two sneezes before the third time turns into good weather tomorrow.Health-based wishes seem self-explanatory, but the origin of God bless you is uncertain.The most popular theory is that Pope Gregory I started it by blessing a person infected with the plague. But its probably not true.Academics believe saying bless you to a sneezer can be traced back even earlier — some say to 77 A.D., others to Greek mythology.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
DEREK M. NORMAN

FEB. 15, 2018
Good morning on this gray but springlike Thursday.Behind a small storefront on Mott Street, in Chinatown, every inch has been turned over to Lunar New Year decorations: long-stringed lanterns, banners and paper charms celebrating the Year of the Dog, which kicks off on Friday.But typically, the patrons come here for something else entirely: namely, to do their laundry.Jie Li, at 126 Mott Street, advertises Wash & Fold, Self & Full Service on its blue awning. For eight weeks, however, it has stocked items such as red and gold luck and prosperity charms and souvenir cards for homes and businesses, as well as for use at the Lunar New Year parade, which will wend its way through the neighborhood on Friday.On Wednesday, a few laundromat patrons had to wedge their way between half a dozen customers paying for knickknacks and cartoon dog cards around the entrance.Inside, people sifted through boxes, as employees did double-duty watching over goods and working as cashiers.AdvertisementIn the basement, where washers and dryers line the walls, more tables had been set up, and a frustrated-looking patron unloaded a dryer and pushed past carrying her clothes out in a faded pink bag.My mom is the real entrepreneur, said Jason Luo, 24, who runs the familys second business, a gadget shop, a few blocks away.AdvertisementShe knows a business cant survive on one single thing. And if you have room, you should utilize it.Heres what else is happening:Way warm. Mid-April warm. Sixty-three degrees warm, though cloudy.Rain tonight, slightly less warm tomorrow, and then it gets cold again. February!• A state commission that oversees the citys jail system may move to close Rikers Island ahead of the citys 10-year timeline. [New York Times]• Railway workers filed a lawsuit against New York & Atlantic Railway, its parent company and three officials, accusing them of discrimination and underpaying employees. [New York Times]• Five people were killed in a four-vehicle crash involving a stolen car and an oil truck on Long Island, the authorities said. [New York Times]• Hoping to accelerate the closing of Rikers Island, officials announced that they had chosen sites for four new jails, one in each borough except Staten Island. [New York Times]Advertisement• The city agency that investigates allegations of police abuse has added a layer of oversight to address accusations of sexual harassment and abuse. [New York Times]• Two months after Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that the schools chancellor, Carmen Fariña, would retire, the spot remains unfilled. [New York Times]• State regulators will investigate reports that gay men have been denied insurance policies because they were taking medication to protect themselves against H.I.V. [New York Times] • New York City is the most expensive city in which to get married, with the average Manhattan wedding costing a whopping $76,944. [Pix 11]• A look at what makes the New York City pigeon so distinctive. [WNYC]• A new lawsuit contends that millions of tickets automatically issued by New York City speed cameras are invalid because of a technical error. [AM New York]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Countdown to Agony• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• A Celebration of the Blues, a Black History Month exhibition by the citys Parks Department, at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. [Free]• A viewing party and panel discussion on the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics — exploring politics, capitalism and Korea — at Rosa Luxemburg Stiftung in Midtown. 6 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P. here]• Learn about creating a mural at your community garden, with a talk by the citys Parks Department and local artists, at Groundswell in Gowanus, Brooklyn. 6:30 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• Docents from the Madame Tussauds wax museum in Times Square star in a comedy show bringing the figures to life, at the Peoples Improv Theater Loft in Chelsea. 9:30 p.m. [$8]• Looking ahead: On Sunday, Allergic to Salad hosts a farm-to-table family cooking class at the Queens Botanical Garden in Flushing.• Rangers vs. Islanders, 7 p.m. (MSG). Devils host Hurricanes, 7 p.m. (MSG+).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Friday.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Were you born during the Year of the Dog?That would include 1934, 1946, 1958, 1970, 1982, 1994, 2006 and 2018, as of Friday. (The next one wont be until 2030.)But all are welcome to celebrate.On Friday, the Firecracker Parade and Cultural Festival takes place in Manhattan from 11 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., hosted by the Better Chinatown Society.This weekend, the Lunar New Year Parade and Festival will march through Flushing, Queens, from 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., kicking off at St. Georges Episcopal Church.And the iconic Chinatown parade will be held on Sunday, Feb. 25, in the heart of Manhattans Chinatown.AdvertisementNew York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Off the Menu By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 13, 2018
GEM The kitchen whiz-kid Flynn McGarry, who has been coming up with tasting menus for a cult following at pop-ups in Los Angeles and New York since he was 12, is aiming for permanence. Hes now 19, as slight as a reed, with hair like a tangle of spiralized carrots. His restaurant, in a pair of narrow storefronts on the Lower East Side, consists of the Living Room, an all-day cafe serving coffee, tea and pastries from morning until 5 p.m., which has just opened. In two weeks, the adjacent Dining Room will follow, with $155 (including tip) set-menu dinners. My idea is to make it like a dinner party, he said. So guests start with a glass of Champagne and hors doeuvres in the cafe before proceeding to the main room, with its simple wood tables and open kitchen, for an appetizers, followed by a couple of family-style platters of pasta and meat, like a lamb feast, with side dishes. Appetizers might include peanut Ritz Crackers with foie gras, king crab with leeks and grapefruit, and slow-roasted sunchokes with pumpkin seed oil and apple. Mr. McGarry describes Daniel Humm of Eleven Madison Park and Ari Taymor of Alma in Los Angeles as mentors. They let me work in their kitchens, but gave me real responsibilities and taught me the business side, instead of just having me pluck herbs, he said. His Ritz Crackers are just the sort of thing Mr. Humm might serve: 116 Forsyth Street (Broome Street), no phone, gem-nyc.com.BASTA Heres another entry in the growing inventory of Israeli dining options from the chef Raz Shabtai, who grew up in Tel Aviv, learned to cook from his grandmother and worked at restaurants in Israel and with Meir Adoni at Nur in New York. His kosher (dairy) Mediterranean restaurant features charred eggplant carpaccio, shakshuka, several seafood preparations and North African dishes like fish with couscous. Long tables are set in a room with a brick oven for bread and pizza, an open kitchen, and vintage artifacts and fresh produce on display: 62 East 34th Street, 917-261-7352.MALA PROJECT Amelie Kangs East Village take-no-prisoners Chinese restaurant featuring dry pots dense with ingredients, is venturing to Midtown Manhattan, near Xian Famous Foods. It will offer a number of dishes for the lunch crowd with lamb or chicken-based combinations. (Opens Wednesday): 41 West 46th Street, 917-261-7520, malaproject.nyc.BOUCHERIE PARK AVENUE SOUTH The meat-focused brasserie that opened in the West Village in late 2016 will welcome a sibling near Union Square. Its a big place, like the original, finished in the Belle Époque style and serving French bistro fare. New, at this location, is a counter that specializes in charcuterie. (Wednesday): 225 Park Avenue South (18th Street), 212-353-0200, boucherie.nyc.AdvertisementTHE HARROW A former hardware store is now this new American restaurant with the chef Eric Thomas, formerly at Nice Matin, in the kitchen. Lobster pierogi, duck magret and a vegan Pavlova dessert with meringue made of aquafaba are some of his specialties. (Thursday): 720 10th Avenue (50th Street), 212-757-6977, theharrownewyork.com.AdvertisementBANZARBAR This new hideaway upstairs from Freemans Restaurant has a warm, vintage look. A mere 20 seats await customers for cocktails and small plates from 6 p.m. Thursdays through Saturdays only, by reservation: Freeman Alley, Rivington Street between Bowery and Chrystie Street, 212-420-0012, banzarbarnyc.com.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.SEAMORES UP TOP The focus on local fish continues in this branch of Seamores in a Midtown Manhattan food hall, where its the first tenant on the mezzanine level: Urbanspace Vanderbilt, 45th Street and Vanderbilt Avenue, urbanspacevanderbilt.com.QUALITY EATS The expansion of this group of creative steakhouses continues, with a new location in NoMad. (Friday): 3 East 28th Street, 212-257-8882, qualityeats.com.IVY STARK, who left New York for Chicago after a long stint as the executive chef of Dos Caminos, is back in town, now as a partner and the chef of John McDonalds El Toro Blanco. Shes been given the green light for a complete overhaul of the menu. Mexican food has been stuck in a rut, but with chefs like Enrique Olvera its ready to move forward, she said. She says she feels that there is now more freedom to create at the higher end, where strict authenticity was long required. Some of the dishes she will serve starting in early March will be mashed black beans on a corn masa base, a Mexican version of beef tartare; cauliflower fajitas; and chile-roasted fish with a cucumber and citrus slaw. A margarita? Hers will be made with cucumber and mint: 257 Avenue of the Americas (Bedford Street), 212-645-0193, eltoroblanconyc.com.N.Y. CAKE A sign in the window of this resource for bakers equipment and ingredients says the store is moving. Lisa Mansour, who owns the store and the cake-decorating school N.Y. Cake Academy, with her mother, Joan Mansour, said their lease was terminating. They have to vacate the premises by June. Were looking and hope to relocate nearby, Lisa Mansour said. We really need more space. She said they planned to have a storewide sale before closing the present location at 56 West 22nd Street. Their wholesale warehouse in Yonkers will continue to operate.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAVID M. HALBFINGERFEB. 14, 2018
JERUSALEM — As Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu fought back Wednesday against a police finding that he had accepted nearly $300,000 in bribes, his cool self-confidence betrayed not the slightest worry that he could be forced to step down anytime soon.The coalition is stable, and no one, me or anyone else, has plans to go to elections, he declared in Tel Aviv. We will continue to work together with you for the citizens of the State of Israel, until the end of our term, in late 2019.If Mr. Netanyahu had entered a dangerous new period in which he must battle for his political survival and avoid imprisonment, he did so possessed of political advantages that no Israeli prime minister has before enjoyed.Beloved by his base and respected even by his adversaries as a guardian of Israels security, Mr. Netanyahu remains the dominant figure on the Israeli stage, his combined 12 years as prime minister closing in on the record of David Ben-Gurion, Israels principal founder.AdvertisementAnd he has defended that position in part by steadily chipping away at the institutions that balance the powers of his office in ways that seem to echo the aggressive tactics of President Trump, except that he was doing it before there was a President Trump.AdvertisementHe and his governing coalition have campaigned to curb the activist Israeli judiciary, demonized the rambunctious press as a bastion of left-wing partisans, attacked the funding of nongovernmental organizations whose worldview they see as hostile and, as the police closed in, he has done his utmost to discredit them, too.I read the recommendations report, Mr. Netanyahu said Wednesday, referring to a lengthy summary of the evidence law enforcement investigators had amassed against him. I can say this is a slanted document, extreme, full of holes, like Swiss cheese, and holds no water.Mr. Netanyahu rode to power in 2009, after his predecessor, Ehud Olmert, faced indictment on charges of taking tens of thousands of dollars in cash payoffs. Mr. Olmert, who was deeply unpopular after leading Israel into a humiliating Lebanon war, was politically doomed the moment Israelis heard the news, but Mr. Netanyahu also has a far more commanding hold on power.Mr. Olmerts coalition had depended on the support of potent rivals like Tzipi Livni and former Prime Minister Ehud Barak, who pushed for Mr. Olmert to resign after his history of payoffs became known.But with no acknowledged successor of any stature waiting in line, Mr. Netanyahus coalition is essentially a captive to him.Much as Republicans in the United States Congress see Mr. Trump as their best shot of retaining power, even if they do not like everything about him, Mr. Netanyahus right-wing and ultra-Orthodox allies prefer Mr. Netanyahu, whatever his faults, to being shut out by a left-of-center government.Mr. Olmerts political base was less tolerant to allegations of corruption than Netanyahus, said Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank, while the more right-wing base is less open to any initiatives that may topple their leader.AdvertisementThere are other differences, including sheer shock value. News of Mr. Olmerts payoffs landed like a thunderbolt after surfacing in the unexpected testimony of his longtime benefactor in an open courtroom. But the outline and most of the details of Mr. Netanyahus alleged misdeeds have been dribbling out for more than a year through nearly daily leaks in the Israeli news media.Indeed, the biggest surprise contained in the recommendations the police released Tuesday night — saying there was evidence to prosecute Mr. Netanyahu on bribery, fraud and breach of trust charges — was that a key witness against him was a rival for his job, Yair Lapid, leader of the centrist Yesh Atid party.Mr. Lapid, who has been gaining strength in the polls, told investigators that, while finance minister in a previous coalition, he had opposed an effort by Mr. Netanyahu to enhance a tax benefit that would have benefited an Israeli movie producer. The police said that Mr. Netanyahus tax effort was in exchange for lavish gifts from the producer Arnon Milchan.Mr. Netanyahu and his allies sought to impeach Mr. Lapids testimony as nothing more than crass political self-interest.This is the same Lapid who promised to bring me down at any price, Mr. Netanyahu said.You are a lousy snitch, the head of the governing coalition, David Amsalem, called Mr. Lapid. Arent you ashamed?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Lapid said he had merely answered the questions investigators put to him, adding pointedly that Mr. Netanyahu needed to show responsibility by stepping down. It would be impossible for him to fulfill his duties, Mr. Lapid said in a video he posted on Facebook, while you are spending the majority of your time with lawyers and in responding to the press.He added: You cannot represent us in the world when every foreign leader that you meet knows you have been accused of serious offenses.There were also demands for Mr. Netanyahus resignation in the opposition and across much of the news media, and a demonstration against him was called for Friday in downtown Tel Aviv.As a legal matter, the case now goes to state prosecutors and the attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, a onetime Netanyahu aide. After closely supervising the investigation, Mr. Mandelblit will now decide whether to file formal charges. If he does, it will be a first against a sitting prime minister in Israel.AdvertisementGetting to that point, which would require a hearing at which Mr. Netanyahus lawyers could argue against indictment, could take months.As a political matter, however, Mr. Netanyahus right-leaning governing coalition holds just 66 of 120 seats in Parliament, so any cracks in solidarity could quickly prove fatal.Within 24 hours, however, three crucial partners had indicated that they would stay by Mr. Netanyahus side for the moment. The finance minister, Moshe Kahlon, whose center-right Kulanu party holds 10 seats, signaled late Tuesday that he would not make any decisions before the attorney generals decision on an indictment.Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman, whose Yisrael Beiteinu party has five seats, recalled how he was forced to resign as foreign minister after being indicted on corruption charges in 2012, but won acquittal and resumed his post a year later.This is why until a prime minister is convicted at court, he can continue, Mr. Lieberman said.The education minister, Naftali Bennett, who leads the right-wing Jewish Home party, which has eight seats, said that replacing the government should be done at the voting station.But he allowed that the police recommendations were harsh and called into question the prime ministers ability to be a leader and role model for the citizens of Israel.A prime minister is not meant to be perfect or live an over-modest lifestyle, but he needs to be someone people look at and say, This is how one should act, he said. Taking gifts in large sums over a long period of time is not living up to this standard.Speaking in Tel Aviv, Mr. Netanyahu did not dispute that he had accepted gifts from Mr. Milchan, the Hollywood producer, and James Packer, an Australian billionaire, but he accused the police of inflating their value in order to reach what he called a magic number, the figure of one million shekels, or about $283,000.AdvertisementWhile the police portrayed his connection to the Israeli-born Mr. Milchan as a bribery relationship, Mr. Netanyahu insisted they were longtime friends. And he said investigators had ignored two instances, involving an automotive company and a television channel, in which his actions had been adverse to Mr. Milchans business interests.How could I on the one hand be acting in Milchans favor and on the other against him? Mr. Netanyahu asked.Regardless of whether Mr. Netanyahu survives the scandal, many have warned that his efforts to sow doubts about the fairness and professionalism of Israeli law enforcement investigators could do lasting damage.When Ehud Olmert was forced to leave his post after an indictment was issued, that happened with full public confidence in the law enforcement agencies, the journalist Ben-Dror Yemini wrote in an op-ed article in Yedioth Ahronoth. If Netanyahu is forced to leave his post in the coming number of months, that will happen amid an awful crisis of confidence among his supporters, who arent exactly a negligible minority.Follow David M. Halbfinger on Twitter: @halbfinger.Isabel Kershner contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Netanyahu Vows to Stay as Prosecutors Consider Bribery Charges.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ALYSON KRUEGERFEB. 14, 2018
Like so many brides, Itamar Conner put a lot of thought into the guest list for her wedding last year.She wanted to be surrounded only by her closest family and friends when she said her vows on Sept. 23 in the chapel on the Marine Corps Base at Quantico in Virginia and when she danced the night away in a small romantic taco restaurant in downtown Manassas. I was in a Mexican food phase, said Ms. Conner, 22.Some guests clearly made the cut: her and her husbands immediate family; friends they each had known since grade school; an inner circle of new friends they socialized with as a couple. But other possibilities required more thought, especially two men Ms. Conner had dated previously whom she still considered friends.Ms. Conners husband let her make the decision, and she eventually decided it would be inappropriate to have them at their wedding.AdvertisementBefore we met each other, we had both been out in the dating scene, having fun, being 21-year-olds, she said. But for our wedding day, something we treasured so much, we didnt want it to be tainted with our past. We didnt want to see a picture of my exes in the wedding photos.AdvertisementWe dont live in a world where people marry their first kisses, said Diane Gottsman, an etiquette expert based in San Antonio. Lots of people date lots of people these days, she said. We might have dated people at one time or another and now they are our neighbors, our dentists, our friends. Online dating and the fact that people are marrying older have only added to this reality.What this means for couples getting married is that when it comes time to draw up the guest list, more people have to decide whether they will include past relationships or hookups in their festivities.This can be a tricky, sensitive issue for both the couple and the past partner, according to Ms. Gottsman. There really arent any definites, she said. It is subjective based on the feelings of the couple and the circumstances.Paul Hwang, a 24-year-old Marine at Quantico, married his wife, Rayliene Hwang, on July 7, 2017, in an apple orchard in Sacramento. He had met her through a close male friend who had dated her. Despite that tricky situation, they were still friends, and Mr. Hwang asked him to be his best man.Ive heard of a lot of weddings where its like you went on one date with this person, so you cant invite them, he said.But for me, even knowing that they probably had a sexual relationship when they were dating, it is in the past. You cant hold someone accountable for what they did. A kiss is just a kiss.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Rachel Sussman, a marriage and relationship therapist in New York, said a good test for deciding whether an ex should be invited is whether that person has been part of the life of the couple.AdvertisementMost couples when they get engaged, theyve been dating for two, three or four years, she said. If someone all of a sudden says, I want to invite this person to my wedding, and their fiancé hasnt met him or her, thats weird to me.Even when the bride and groom are certain about their decision, it can be an emotional choice for the former partner.Mr. Hwangs friend ended up choosing not to come to the wedding after there was a misunderstanding about the date of the wedding. Ms. Hwang said it was probably for the best. I think it would have been a diss if we didnt even invite him at all, she said. But maybe it would have been a little awkward if he was there. I told him some intimate things about myself.Cristina Garcia, a 38-year-old dietitian and wellness consultant in Austin, Tex., who is happily married with children, was shocked when her high school sweetheart hand-delivered an invitation to his wedding. I knew he was dating someone and they were serious, and I was happy for him, she said. But I never expected the wife would be cool with inviting me to the wedding.She attended and found the experience baffling. The doors opened, the bride is there, and he was looking for me, she said. Our eyes locked. Then they continued with the ceremony, and I congratulated them after and watched them do their first dance. Maybe it was his version of closure. She added that it was a moment she will never forget for her entire life.Then there are the people left out of the festivities.Jessica Birch, a 33-year-old special education teacher in Manhattan, felt isolated when she wasnt invited to the wedding of an ex-boyfriend from college who ended up dating and later marrying a mutual friend. We were all part of the same clique in our rowing club, she said. It was similar to any club where you have both guys and girls. You all just end up dating each other at some point.She found out she wasnt invited to the wedding when other mutual friends inquired whether she was going. I played it off not like I wasnt invited but that I couldnt make it, she said. I saw all my friends at the wedding on Facebook. It really sucked.While couples shouldnt invite an ex to their wedding just because he or she may feel left out, there are some motivations that are more respectful and more kind than others.AdvertisementAre you all friends now and the bride or groom is just jealous? If thats the case, that is a sign of bigger problems to come. That person is going to be jealous of co-workers and family members down the line, Ms. Gottsman said. If youre making a declaration that this is a fresh start for us, we are keeping it limited to close family and friends, that is different.Of course, not every situation with an ex is tricky. When Laurel Niedospial, a 33-year-old freelance writer in Chicago got married on June 17, 2012, she had no hesitation about inviting her ex-boyfriend, who was already married to her close friend, to the wedding. Its funny, she said. I stopped thinking about him as an ex-boyfriend years before that.He ended up being useful. When there was miscommunication with the wedding planner about making arrangements for a smores bar, her ex picked up the skewers and ran the whole station, helping guests spread peanut butter and marshmallows on their graham crackers.She had no doubt that she made the right decision in what could have been an awkward situation for others. There were no feelings there, she said of the former romance. He managed to save the day.Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: Giving Your Ex a Seat to Watch Your I Dos.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Here and Now By                     
JUDY BERMAN

FEB. 11, 2018
Here and Now is going to be a weird show. That much is implied in the first moments of the series premiere, as a barrage of apparently unrelated images flashes across the screen, followed by a shot of a woman and a little boy playing on the beach. The camera quivers. The sound skips like an old record. The woman gasps, removes her sunglasses, calls out the name Ramon and scratches four long, deep gashes into her own face with her fingernails. She says something in a language that isnt English. Its as though weve entered some new Twin Peaks lodge.But, phew, its nothing more than a dream. Or, at least, it seems that way when Ramon Bayer-Boatwright (Daniel Zovatto), a college student who designs video games, awakens in his Portland, Ore., apartment. That same morning, he summons the courage to take his flirting to the next level with Henry Bergen (Andy Bean), a bearded barista who might be Ramons soul mate and who is surprisingly eager to accompany him to his fathers 60th birthday party that evening.Its a good day. The only thing that seems off about it is that Ramon keeps seeing the number 11:11. First its a clock in the coffee shop. Then its the dashboard of his elliptical, at the gym, which freezes 11 minutes and 11 seconds into his workout. After a few of these scenes, it occurred to me that the four gashes from his dream also resembled four ones. Ramon tells Henry about a website that claims that people who are contacted by the number 11:11 have some positive mission to accomplish. They laugh it off in bed, joking that their hookup is that mission.Still, the extent to which this show is going to be weird doesnt become clear until the final ten minutes of the episode. At the party, as his depressive philosophy professor father, Greg Boatwright (Tim Robbins), delivers an uncomfortably pessimistic speech, Ramon has a vision. There are four candles on top of a bookshelf, and their flames seem to stretch into, yes, four long, straight, blazing lines. No one else sees it.AdvertisementThis tragicomic scene, in which Ramon interrupts Gregs sad-sack monologue by screaming, cursing and hallucinating, is emblematic of what Here and Now seems to be: a pointedly contemporary family drama with supernatural elements. And, if this set piece is any indication, those two facets of the story wont always coexist so comfortably.AdvertisementThe episode plays like a sort of Alan Ball greatest-hits medley. Ball scripted the Oscar-winning suburban lament American Beauty, then created the classic family drama Six Feet Under and the less-classic vampire soap True Blood for HBO. His shows all have political overtones (in True Blood, vampires come out to humans), and he loves using families as a prism through which to view American life. At his best, Ball creates characters that feel as lovably imperfect as your own parent or sibling; other times, it can feel as if hes screaming liberal talking points through the screen.Its intriguing, then, that the family he chose to put at the center of Here and Now, his return to HBO after a brief four-year absence, is the living embodiment of white liberal guilt. Greg made his name as a philosopher, decades ago, with a book called A Laypersons Guide to the Here and Now. His sycophantic teaching assistant gushes to him about the way you marry Epicureanism with presentism, then reboot them both into something deeply, deeply moral. Well surely learn more about Gregs views as the season goes on, but for now, it sounds as if his ideas were about finding pleasure through focusing on the present, without allowing oneself to become a selfish jerk. That was before life in the 21st century plunged him into a moral crisis. Now, hes mourning his idealistic youth, visiting a prostitute once a week and sobbing on the way home.Gregs wife, Audrey Bayer-Boatwright (the great Holly Hunter), is his opposite — energetic while hes chronically lethargic, controlling while hes out of control, obsessively involved in her childrens lives while he barely acknowledges their existence. Twenty years ago, Audrey gave up her therapy practice to found something called the Empathy Project. She wants her sons new lover, Henry, to be her best friend, because thats just how cool she is with having a gay son. And although shes the kind of upper-middle-class white person who cant throw a house party without bringing in caterers, she does speak to them in fluent Spanish.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In his speech, to his kids understandable annoyance, Greg refers to their family as this great experiment. Three of the four Bayer-Boatwright children were adopted from countries wronged by the United States. Ramon was born in Colombia. His elder siblings, Ashley (Jerrika Hinton), from Liberia, and Duc (Raymond Lee), from Vietnam, envy him. They call him Baby Jesus because, as Duc explains over drinks with Ashley and the male model she brought along from work, their parents just calmed down after they adopted Ramon. He didnt have to wear the national costumes Audrey forced on the older kids, maybe because he looked WASP white.Their parents well-meaning attention to Ashleys and Ducs origins have apparently made them both fixated on and resistant to their racial and ethnic identities. They tease each other with slurs like angry black woman and ching chong Viet Cong. Ashley changed her name, at 18, from one of African origin to what she calls the whitest name I can think of. Shes married to a kind, dull white man, the father of her young daughter, and she has a job thats very different from her parents do-gooder professions: She works in the fashion industry. Duc, for his part, is so hungry for his dads approval that hes become a motivational architect, feeding clients a simplified version of Gregs philosophy with slogans like, See it, want it, have it. Also, hes celibate.Ramons messianic nickname, and his soothing effect on his parents, may well turn out to have some connection to this 11:11 story line. But for now, whats clear is that there are two factions among the kids: Ashley with Duc, and Ramon with his 17-year-old sister, Kristen (Sosie Bacon), who idolizes Ramon. As their parents sole biological child, she has a complex about being the boring white chick in the family. So she escapes from herself, smoking weed, making fake Facebook accounts and wandering around Gregs party with a rubber horse mask on her head. When she loses her virginity with Ashleys model, he doesnt seem to mind that she stays in disguise the entire time.All of this — the characters, their secrets and hangups, the supernatural stuff — adds up to a fairly overstuffed premiere. And thats before Ramon visits the office of Dr. Farid Shokrani (Peter Macdissi), a psychiatrist who has a photo of the same scene (minus the torn-open face) Ramon saw in his dream. The woman, Dr. Shokrani says, is his mother. Thats where the episode ends, although HBO has said that Here and Now will follow the doctors family, too, so well surely learn more about them soon.In the meantime, Im ambivalent. Ball wrote and directed the premiere, which accounts for the strong dialogue. I find Ramon and Audrey fascinating, and Kristen reminds me of Lauren Ambroses Claire Fisher, the wonderfully angsty teen daughter from Six Feet Under. I loved the conversation in which she reminds her mom, I am my own person who is not you. Audrey and Duc havent entirely come into focus yet, and Greg is a bit of a sulky, baby boomer dad cliché. (In American Beauty terms, hes a Lester Burnham for Trumps America.)Most of all, Im worried the 11:11 stuff and the Bayer-Boatwright saga will never meld into one coherent story. The first episode of Here and Now held my attention, though, and thats all a pilot needs to do.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MUJIB MASHAL and DHARISHA BASTIANSFEB. 11, 2018
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka — Local elections across Sri Lanka on Saturday were supposed to be about small issues, like installing street lighting for some neighborhoods and improving garbage sweeping in others.But the countrys first postwar national government has stagnated, with the governing coalition partners at each others throats. Suddenly, the local vote has become a referendum on the national governments performance.And, to an extent, the results of the elections may signal what direction the island nation takes in its still-fragile transition from decades of a civil war that killed as many as 100,000 people before it ended in 2009.The results trickling in on Sunday made it clear that opposition party candidates, led by the former president Mahinda Rajapaksa, were close to sweeping the local councils. They put Mr. Rajapaksa — a former strongman accused of human rights abuses and corruption who brutally crushed the Tamil insurgency before the war ended — once again at the center of the countrys political future.AdvertisementMr. Rajapaksa, speaking from his hometown, Tangalle, congratulated his supporters and asked them to celebrate their victory peacefully. Some members of his party went so far as to say that the people have abolished the mandate of the governing coalition and called on the government to resign.AdvertisementThe victory is a clear indication that Sri Lankans are fed up of inaction and want to rebuild Sri Lanka, Mr. Rajapaksa said on his Facebook page.Analysts warned that a resounding victory by Mr. Rajapaksas party — the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (the Sri Lanka Peoples Front, or S.L.P.P.) — would have broader consequences than simply weakening the government of President Maithripala Sirisena, which has two years left.Mr. Sirisena came to power in 2015 with the help of an unlikely coalition of minority groups and as the face of Sri Lankans hope that power would be decentralized, the military and corruption would be reined in, and some of the countrys wounds from the long war would be healed.But he has not delivered on his promises. And now, critics say, his partys apparently miserable performance in the local elections — against opponents accused of corruption and abuse — means that the president has missed his chance to carry out his reform agenda.This election has made it clear that that window has been closed, said Jayadeva Uyangoda, former head of the political science department of the University of Colombo. Its very difficult to open that window again.Mr. Sirisena has led an uneasy coalition government, which he established with Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghes United National Party in 2015. As the local elections neared, the differences between the two leaders spilled out into the open, with the president frequently attacking United and accusing it of holding back his agenda.That bickering ended up helping Mr. Rajapaksa, who had never stopped mobilizing in the wings.Over the past two years, the coalition government did not do anything significantly new, Mr. Uyangoda said.They had very open disunity, and particularly during the last month of the election campaign, the signal they sent was that this is a government of chaos, he said. Obviously, the people then want a strong government. And Rajapaksa is the candidate for a strong ruler, for the stability of governance.AdvertisementWhile the voting on Saturday went smoothly in a country that has experienced violent elections, the Election Commission was slow to release results, as parties demanded recounts in many localities.The results released so far, and information broadcast by the local news media, suggested that out of 341 local councils total, Mr. Rajapaksas S.L.P.P. won 225, the United National Party won 41, and Mr. Sirisenas Sri Lanka Freedom Party, or S.L.F.P., along with smaller allies, got 14.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For the first time in the countrys history, Sri Lanka required parties to field at least 25 percent female candidates in the elections, hoping the quota would increase the number of women on local councils, where they hold just 2 percent of seats.Although the impact of the quota was not immediately clear, some neighborhoods reported increased victories by women. Colombo, the capital city, was expected to get its first female mayor after electing Rosy Senanayake, the current deputy head of the prime ministers office and a former winner of the Mrs. World Pageant.It should be 50 percent women, really, said Dulani Paranawithana, 20, a first-time voter. But that is difficult to imagine.Both governing parties were in soul-searching mode, struggling to figure out their next moves and make changes in time to make sure Mr. Rajapaksas party does not ride discontent with the government to victory in the presidential election in 2019. Coalition members were clear that both ruling parties were facing a wave that would be difficult to reverse.Members of Mr. Sirisenas team said the president would shake up his cabinet in the coming days.This election is a setback, but the majority of Sri Lanka is still anti-Rajapaksa, said Rajitha Senaratne, Mr. Sirisenas health minister. This election has shown that despite everything, the January 8, 2015, coalition, which changed the political culture in this country and ousted the Rajapaksa regime, has remained intact.Mr. Seanartne said the election results showed that the combined votes of all other parties, which essentially joined hands in 2015 to defeat Mr. Rajapaksa, were still more than Mr. Rajapaksas partys.AdvertisementBut it was not clear how Mr. Sirisena, long seen a political survivor, could emerge from this political bind.For decades, he and Mr. Rajapaksa were both S.L.F.P. loyalists, and Mr. Sirisena served as the partys general secretary for 13 years. In 2015, Mr. Sirisena left the party to run against his own incumbent leader, projecting himself as a unifier above party politics, but soon after becoming president, he took over the party leadership, as well.Mr. Rajapaskas wing of the party then formed a new party, the S.L.P.P. In hopes of peeling away some of Mr. Rajapaksas support, Mr. Sirisena has backtracked on his own promises of fighting corruption and reining in the military.To many observers, Saturdays elections showed that not only had Mr. Sirisena failed to make a dent in Mr. Rajapaksas support base, but his confused signals had cost him much of his own.A version of this article appears in print on February 12, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Local Election Losses Send A Warning in Sri Lanka.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Frank BruniWhat a herky-jerky mess our federal government is. What a bumbling klutz. It cant manage health care. It cant master infrastructure. It cant fund itself for more than tiny increments of time. It can barely stay open. It shut down briefly on Friday for the second time in three weeks. Maybe it should just stay closed for good.Let corporations pick up the slack! In fact theyre doing that already, with an innovation and can-do ambition sorely absent in Washington.Three days before the latest shutdown, Elon Musk borrowed a launchpad previously used by NASAs trailblazing astronauts to send his own rocket into space. It was the first time that a vessel of such might and majesty was thrust heavenward by a private company rather than a government agency.It was also a roaring, blazing sign of our times, in which the gaudy dreams and grand experiments belong to the private sector, not the public one, and in which the likes of Musk or Amazons Jeff Bezos chart a future for our species beyond our stressed-out planet. NASA no longer leads the way.Speaking of Amazon, it joined two other corporate giants, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase, to announce two weeks ago that they would form their own health care provider and try to solve the riddle that continues to stump lawmakers: dependable service at affordable prices.Amazon also recently stole a high-profile educator from Stanford University, Candace Thille. Her hiring suggests that the company is poised to expand employee training to a point where Amazon is essentially filling in for public and private universities and grooming its own work force.And Musk is not only reaching for the stars but also tunneling under the earth. A new venture of his, the Boring Company, is a response to the inability of public officials in Los Angeles to ease the regions paralyzing traffic. Musk envisions a futuristic network of subterranean chutes. The first one is already under construction.We Americans are living a paradox. Were keenly suspicious of big corporations — just look at how many voters thrilled to Bernie Sanderss jeremiads about a corrupt oligarchy, or at polls that show a growing antipathy to capitalism — and yet were ever more reliant on them. Theyre in turn bolder, egged on by the ineptness and inertia of Washington.When theres a vacuum, there are going to be entities that step into it, Chris Lehane told me. This is an example of that. Lehane is the head of global policy for Airbnb, which ran a commercial this month that alluded (without profanity) to Trumps shithole countries remark and promoted those very places as travel destinations. It spoke to another vacuum — a moral one — being filled by companies, many of which are more high-minded, forward-thinking and solutions-oriented than the federal government on immigration, L.G.B.T. rights, climate change and more.Lehane noted that democratic governments are designed to proceed with caution, but the pace of change in a digital world of automation and, now, artificial intelligence is brisker than ever. The nimbleness of corporations gives them an edge over hoary, complacent institutions, including those in higher education. Corporations creep into that sphere is looking more and more like a sprint.They are very frustrated with what theyre getting from our educational institutions, said Philip Zelikow, a University of Virginia professor who collaborated with corporate leaders like Howard Schultz of Starbucks on a 2015 report titled Americas Moment: Creating Opportunity in the Connected Age. The American labor market is dysfunctional and broke.In an effort to make sure that employees have up-to-the-minute technical skills — or are simply adept at critical thinking and creative problem solving — more companies have developed academies of their own. Thats likely to accelerate.I think enterprises like Amazon and Google are going to build universities that teach coding and things the nation needs, Margaret Spellings, the president of the University of North Carolina System, recently told me. Spellings was education secretary under President George W. Bush.Donald Trumps education secretary, Betsy DeVos, has mulled the same possibility. Speaking to the U.S. Conference of Mayors last month, she recalled a conversation with the Israeli ambassador: He was baffled as to why Americas businesses havent simply stepped in to create their own education programs to equip individuals with the necessary skills, instead of relying on others to get it right for them. Some businesses have done precisely that, though DeVos was obviously wondering whether that effort was enough. She said that there were six million job openings in America and suggested that schools werent graduating students with the know-how to fill them.Corporations have long been engines of innovation, sources of philanthropy and even laboratories for social policy. But the situation feels increasingly lopsided these days. Im struck, for example, by the intensity of conversation over the last year about what Facebook and its algorithms should do to stanch the destructive tribalism in American life. Its true that Mark Zuckerbergs monster has badly aggravated that dynamic, in part by allowing its platform to be manipulated by bad actors. But so has Washington, and we seem less hopeful that its redeemable and likely to shepherd us to a healthier place.Although government spending has hardly dried up — the budget deal signed by Trump on Friday attests to that — and the federal debt continues to metastasize, theres a questionable commitment to scientific research, leaving private actors to call many of the shots.But companies primary concern isnt public welfare. Its the bottom line. I say that not to besmirch them but to state the obvious. Their actions will never deviate too far from their proprietary interests, and while tapping their genius and money is essential, outsourcing too much to them is an abdication of governments singular role. Whats best for Amazon and whats best for humanity arent one and the same.Lawrence Summers, the economist and former Treasury secretary, says that corporations might see no point in teaching Shakespeare. But shouldnt Shakespeare be taught? Corporations might find cunning answers to the transportation woes of their own employees. But would that necessarily improve the lot of people working and living elsewhere?Whether they do it in the collective interest or in their own is very much in question, Summers told me. I use as a parable for a lot of things what happens in developing countries, where the urban electric system doesnt work well, and therefore the businesses start building their own generators to take care of themselves, and therefore theres no longer a constituency or pressure to fix the existing electricity system, and meanwhile the society is falling apart.There may be something for all of us in Musks rocket launch. But theres definitely a whole lot more in it for Musk.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy LANDON THOMAS Jr.FEB. 9, 2018
A decade ago, the center of gravity on Wall Street were raucous trading desks and stock exchange floors. These days, the locus has shifted to far quieter places, where computers are in charge.The transition has been years in the making, but its effect has been on full display over the past week. After propelling the market to historic highs, passive investment strategies — which follow a simple set of rules and are carried out by sophisticated computer programs, not humans — are among the factors fueling the markets recent plunge.This is the new reality of todays stock market: Funds that track financial indexes have become a dominant force, and they can act as accelerants, adding momentum to the markets rise and fall.This week, as markets shuddered, exchange-traded index funds were responsible for 38 percent of total stock trading on some days, an astonishing figure given that these funds were just a curiosity 10 years ago. Indexing giants like BlackRock and Vanguard now own vast swaths of the market and are the largest shareholders in just about all the major companies in the Standard & Poors 500-stock index.AdvertisementIn many ways, this stampede toward passive investing — in which people put their money into funds that track indexes and broader market themes as opposed to relying on human stock pickers — is uncharted territory. Now the key question is how this transformed market holds up during a financial storm that lasts more than a few days.AdvertisementThese flows have had a big effect on the market, said Peter Tchir, a strategist at Academy Securities. And when people want to get out, there is a similar effect.Cheaply priced exchange-traded and index funds have pumped trillions of dollars into the stock market since early 2009. They now own close to 40 percent of stocks in the United States, according to research by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.Unlike mutual funds, E.T.F.s are listed on public exchanges, which makes many of them very easy to trade even if the securities they hold may not be. On Thursday, for example, the second most actively traded security in the equity market was a BlackRock fund that invests in large companies in emerging markets.As stocks plunged Thursday afternoon, the global markets desk at BlackRock, the worlds largest asset manager, was calm. There were no traders or portfolio managers barking Buy! or Sell! — just a cluster of 15 people in front of computer screens monitoring the firms fleet of passive investment funds.There was a lot to keep an eye on.BlackRock, which manages $6 trillion overall, is the leading issuer of exchange-traded funds, with $1.3 trillion under management. But as the market fell and trading in BlackRock funds accelerated, there was little sign of panic or emotion among the E.T.F. specialists at the firm.They fielded phone calls from clients and let the computers do their work.Martin Small, who oversees United States-based E.T.F.s at the firm, said the high share of E.T.F. trading was positive for the markets. That is because on days when fearful investors want to sell, large, easy-to-trade E.T.F.s serve as a critical release valve.Everything worked, Mr. Small said. Volumes were higher and more people were watching, but our funds did what they were supposed to do.AdvertisementInvesting on the basis of what machines, as opposed to humans, do has been a trend in financial markets for years. Whats different now is that so much money has poured into a specific type of computer-driven trading.From cost-conscious millennials to the worlds largest pension and sovereign wealth funds, E.T.F.s have become a preferred investment choice. In addition to all the major stock and bond indexes, they enable investors to get a piece of the action in arcane areas like junk bonds, bank loans and stocks in Pakistan. There is even an E.T.F. that tracks companies that make whiskey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The popularity of E.T.F.s has concentrated unparalleled financial power in BlackRock and Vanguard, the two biggest providers of index funds and E.T.F.s. Together, they sit on $10.5 trillion in assets and control 65 percent of the 1,700 exchange-traded funds that exist.Relying on sophisticated computer programs, they funnel investor money into the stocks and bonds that make up indexes around the world. As the flows have grown in volume, much of these funds have gone toward index heavyweights like Amazon, Apple and Facebook, pushing their valuations ever higher.This makes some regulators, academics and investors nervous. What happens, they ask, when passive investors own 80 percent of stocks as opposed to the 40 percent they control today?Active fund managers — human stock pickers — will be marginalized, the argument goes. And that could cause harm, because they are the ones who buy when others sell. So when stocks suddenly plummet, there will be fewer funds to step in, extending the fall.An analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein even compared passive investing to Marxism, in its sweeping conformity and its degradation of the independent-minded, active investor.For years, this has been an E.T.F. market — its robots buying stocks just as they were programmed to do, said Steven Bregman of Horizon Kinetics, a firm that hunts for undervalued stocks. But so much money has gone into just a few hundred stocks. Everyone owns the same stuff. So when they want to get out, who are they going to sell to?Compounding these worries is the rise of algorithm-driven trading strategies at large hedge funds. They get their buy and sell signals not from a human but from indexes that measure sharp swings in the market. Earlier this week, they were big sellers when the so-called VIX index — a measure of anticipated market volatility — skyrocketed.AdvertisementE.T.F. proponents argue that their industrys growth is just the latest stage of the stock-indexing revolution that began in the early 1970s. That was when John C. Bogle founded Vanguard and began to launch index funds.His argument, which soon became a form of religion to his followers, was that over the long term, a cheap fund that tracks a broad index will perform better than expensive alternatives managed by stock pickers who believe they can outfox the market.Wesley R. Gray of Alpha Architect, a rules-based investment firm, is one such true believer. He argues that his computer models do a better job creating stock portfolios than humans can ever do.So when stocks sank this week, he barely glanced at his trading screens. Whether the market goes up or down does not matter to him because the computers control his suite of exchange-traded funds — not him.If the market goes down 4 percent, I dont even care, Mr. Gray said. That is the beauty of systems. Once you build it, there is literally nothing left to do.A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Quiet Player In Volatility Of Market: Computers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
FEB. 12, 2018
Good morning on this clearing Monday.Thousands of dogs were checked into New York hotels over the weekend ahead of the annual Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, which begins today.Around 600 of them — including four-pound Chihuahuas and 300-pound bull mastiffs — are staying across from Madison Square Garden, where the pageantry takes place, at the Hotel Pennsylvania.This time of year, the hotel is like Vegas for dogs.There are dog fashion shows. Dog parties. Dog toy fairs. A dog salon and spa. And a doggie concierge who handles requests specifically from dog owners, coaches and handlers.We have it down to a science, the canine concierge, Jerry Grymek, said of the hotel, which has been hosting Westminster competitors since the 1990s. People have rituals to make their dogs feel comfortable.AdvertisementMr. Grymek has rolled out a red carpet for one dog, he said. And furnished an opera singer to serenade an Italian Spinoni that was fond of the music.AdvertisementHe has picked up food: a slice of pizza, a chicken sandwich, six McDonalds cheeseburgers; hold the onions.And hired dog acupuncturists and psychics. (The psychics informed owners that their dogs were nervous, and did not wish to eat beans.)He has also fetched cots — for the coaches, not the dogs: The dogs get the beds. The owner wants the dog having optimal sleep, Mr. Grymek said. Theyre in the show, after all.Heres what else is happening:A little cooler today but the rain is gone, and the clouds will break up by afternoon, with a high around 43.Then cold tonight and fair tomorrow. Not a bad start.• The Legal Aid Society is threatening to sue if Nycha does not return upward of $10 million in rent payments after residents were left without heat this winter. [New York Times]• Yoselyn Ortega, who worked as a nanny for a Manhattan family, is accused of murdering two of the children she cared for. [New York Times]• Joseph Percoco, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomos former deputy secretary often used the governors name to further his own interests, according to testimony in his federal corruption trial. [New York Times]Advertisement• A correction officer suffered a fractured neck when he was attacked by inmates in a Rikers Island jail. [New York Times]• The Olmsted-Beil House in Staten Island, the one-time home of Frederick Law Olmsted, who designed Central Park, was purchased by the city but has fallen into disrepair. [New York Times]• New Yorks attorney general filed a lawsuit against the Weinstein Company and demanded that any victims of Harvey Weinstein be justly compensated. [New York Times]• Sleep apnea testing should be federally mandated to prevent more train derailments, Senator Chuck Schumer says. [Am New York]• More than 100 people packed into Bar Sepia in Prospect Heights to show support for the owner as she mounts a last-ditch effort to hold onto her 14-year-old business. [New York Post]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A fourth New York City child has died from flu-related complications, police sources said. [New York Post]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Gorgeous• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Day 1 of Off-Broadway Week, with two-for-one tickets at dozens of shows around the city. (Here are a few New York Times Critics Picks.) Times and prices vary.• The theater director Arin Arbus joins Randy Cohens Person Place Thing show to discuss The Winters Tale, at Polonsky Shakespeare Center in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. 7:30 p.m. [$15]Advertisement• Monday Night Magic at the Players Theater in Greenwich Village. 8 p.m. [$42.50]• A Mardi Gras Monday party (followed by a Fat Tuesday celebration) at Brooklyn Bowl in Williamsburg. 8 p.m. [$15]• Looking ahead: On Wednesday, the Bond Street Euterpean Singing Society performs Love in the Parlors, a Valentines Day concert of Schubert, Brahms and others, at the Merchants House Museum in NoHo.• Knicks at 76ers, 7 p.m. (MSG). Nets host Clippers, 7:30 p.m. (YES).• Alternate-side parking is suspended.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.On this day in 1931, the public was introduced to the strangest passion the world has ever known.That, according to an ad in The Times, was the passion of Dracula for blood.The horror film, based on the novel by Bram Stoker, premiered Feb. 12 at the Roxy Theater on 50th Street, a venue nicknamed the Cathedral of Motion Picture and considered at the time the finest cinema in New York City.The ad, along with the Times review of the film, underscores that its a talking film — then a novel concept. Silent films transitioned to talkies with speaking, singing and dancing in the late 1920s.The movie and its sharp-toothed protagonist, now thought to be more comical than scary, were described as bloodcurdling, evil and eerie.Fog, a highly technical special effect at the time, made it all the more spooky.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAMIEN CAVEFEB. 7, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.______Movies define countries for the world.Pedro Almodóvar shapes how we think of Spain. England will forever be Monty Python and Lawrence of Arabia for many of us, while the American extremes — optimism, violence, humor and despair — are all visible via Hollywood.So what does Crocodile Dundee say about Australia?I watched the movie again last night, for the first time since its release in 1986. I was just a kid then and thought nothing of laughing at Paul Hogans knife or his cluelessness about escalators and elevators in New York.Now, though, its all a bit jarring.Dundee is still the highest-grossing Australian film of all time. Hes the character many Americans most associate with this country, and yet the depiction of Australia (not to mention New York and journalism, given the reporters in limos) needs some serious updating.AdvertisementWhich is, of course, what a series of trailers for a Dundee sequel seemed to offer when they started gathering buzz online a few weeks ago.AdvertisementI was one of many who saw the clips and got excited. Joining Danny McBride as the son of Dundee were Australias biggest stars, including Margot Robbie, Chris Hemsworth, Russell Crowe, and Hugh Jackman.The trailers premise — the foolish Americanized son of an Australian legend returns to the bush — also suggested a chance to poke fun at Americans and American assumptions about Australia. Bring it, I thought.But what looked like a summer film was actually a setup for a Super Bowl ad. Tourism Australia duped us all, aiming directly at Americas love for the Dundee story, with the goal of exploiting it.And it seems to be working.John OSullivan, the managing director of Tourism Australia, told me yesterday that their site has seen record traffic since the Super Bowl, and that tourism operators are reporting double and triple the usual interest.What were saying to North America is youre welcome in our country and we want you to visit," he said. That character really does bring that to the fore in a way that no other character has really done before.Perhaps. Its true that Dundee is quite welcoming to the visiting American reporter played by Linda Kozlowski (Hogan ended up marrying her in real life) and theres clearly something deeper going on with Dundee and Aussie identity.Heres Vincent Canby, our former chief film critic, grappling with Hogan and his character in 1986:More than anything else, he seems to represent the newly proud Australian, the man who doesnt apologize for not being born English, who relishes his own, very pronounced accent and vocabulary, and who celebrates skepticism and the old, frontier values, more or less simultaneously.Does that sound right to you? (The original film review is a hoot as well.)Regardless, heres a related question: Is there a Crocodile Dundee for today? A character or story that embodies how Australia sees itself now?AdvertisementIts one thing to use Dundee to reintroduce Americans to Australia. Good on ya for that, especially if it means gaining a deeper understanding of the place through visiting.But ad-driven nostalgia is a sticky wicket. In the actual movie, I saw quite a bit more than what many Americans and Australians might recall.Hogans performance, closely observed, is unlike what he did for Tourism Australia as a spokesman before the film — hes not just a breezy larrikin.His Dundee in America is more complicated, revealing in his facial expressions a fair amount of anxiety and awkwardness as he wanders through New York.The Australia that he embodied in the 80s was not yet a middle power, or middle-power plus as Australia is sometimes known today. It was a young country far away, lacking urgency, trying to figure out a fast-paced, competitive world and just how much it wanted to get involved with all that ambition.To some degree thats still Australia. To some degree its not.Australia in 2018 is more confident, far richer, more diverse, more urbanized and less unified politically. Its a beach lifestyle brand, not a Fosters ad. But its still not sure what role it wants to play globally.So what would a new Dundee reveal?Assuming we can cast Chris or Liam Hemsworth — or perhaps the role belongs to Russell Crowe or Hugh Jackman, who are roughly the same age as Hogan was for Dundee — what would a tale of Australia and the world tell us about the country today?Where would the film be set, whose stories would it capture, and what would make it resonate with todays Australians?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Send me your thoughts and script ideas — and Ill find a way to get them to Aussiewood and Screen Australia … or at least to next weeks newsletter.AdvertisementShare the request with friends, too. Tell them to sign up (or just sign them up as a friendly provocation), email us at nytaustralia@nytimes.com, and join us in our Facebook group for brainstorming.Now heres more from this week in The Times and in Australia, followed by a recommendation for another Aussie film that Ive come to love.Uma Thurman, after promising to express her anger about Harvey Weinstein when she was good and ready, has found a way to get it all out: in an interview with Maureen Dowd.The complicated feeling I have about Harvey is how bad I feel about all the women that were attacked after I was, she said, explaining an array of experiences with candor and frustration.One reader commented: Ms. Thurman embodies everything Ive ever wanted to be.______You may think of augmented reality as simply Pokemon Go. But it can be a lot more than that, and as part of our effort to stay ahead of the journalism pack, were introducing an augmented reality experiment for our Olympics coverage.Its a way to study and see some of the worlds greatest athletes, up close and personal.Heres how to get started on your phone or tablet.______The worlds stock markets are way, way down, but dont fret. Context matters.The Dow fell by 1,175 points on Monday, which represents a 4.6 percent decline, but our economics columnist takes the long view: There were steeper percentage declines on several occasions during the global financial crisis and its aftermath, not to mention the 508-point drop in the Dow in 1987 that represented a 22.6 percent market crash.And one more thing: All of the worlds big economies are now growing.______Our latest coverage of Australia and New Zealand ranges from food to flight, nudists to firestarters:• A Wrestling Team Fights to Prove Its Not an African Gang: Sudanese in Australia have come under unwelcome scrutiny after politicians said they were behind a crime wave in Melbourne. (International)Advertisement• We Have to Get Naked: Visitors encounter a surprise on one of Sydneys nude beaches. (Australia Diary)• In Australia, Arsonists May Have Wings: Aboriginal Australians have long believed that some predatory birds deliberately spread wildfires. A few ornithologists have set out to find proof. (Science)• The Life and Death of Nigel, the Worlds Loneliest Seabird: The gannet won hearts with his devotion to a concrete decoy on an uninhabited New Zealand island. His story shines a light on efforts to repopulate the island. (Science)• Review: Cavs Steakhouse on the Gold Coast, Queensland: The restaurant predates Outback Steakhouse and provides a retro taste of Australias dining history. (Food)• Six Great Reads for Australians on the Culture-Tech Collision: From reality-show drag queens to the Bitcoin bubble — heres how the latest in culture and tech fits into the Australian discussion. (International)______• Alex Joske examines how Chine silences dissent — in Australia.• David Brooks explores how nations recover from failure.• David Leonhardt welcomes an end to the scam of flying pets — and I say amen.Gettin Square is NOT Crocodile Dundee.Its about criminals and colorful characters, none more memorable than Johnny Francis Spit Spitieri as played brilliantly by David Wenham.If theres a better comic courtroom scene than this one, Ive never seen it. The twists and turns of the writing reminded me of this classic from Abbott & Costello — and thats a compliment.Advertisement(Hat tip to Meredith McDonald and David Clark for the suggestion; theyve become the Australia bureaus unofficial Aussie film tutors. Thanks M & D!)Damien Cave revisited Crocodile Dundee for this weeks newsletter, but he prefers Gettin Square for Aussie authenticity. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
FEB. 9, 2018
Good morning on this sunny, then cloudy, Friday.Long before she became an Olympian, Morgan Schild was carving the slopes of Bristol Mountain near Rochester, elevation 2,150 feet.At 9 years old, she entered her first mogul skiing completion there.I got dead last, she said. But I loved it. I loved the diversity of skills you needed and I love that you get to add your level of personality to your run.By the time she was 15, Ms. Schild was known on the mountain as War Paint.One of my coaches saw how silly I was around the competition but when I stepped into the gate, the war paint came on; I became very focused and serious, she said. The second I finished I was back to my goofy self.The 20-year-old freestyle skier from the Rochester suburb of Pittsford is one of 19 New Yorkers competing at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, which start today.AdvertisementWe talked to Ms. Schild this week, shortly after she arrived to the Olympic Village.I feel like Im at an amusement park for the first time, she said. Its very exciting and kind of overwhelming.AdvertisementMs. Schild will compete this weekend in mogul skiing, a downhill course of short snow mounds and aerial jumps. For spectators, it combines teeth-clenchingly sharp turns with the oohs and aahs of airborne acrobatics.On the slopes, youll recognize her by her big jumps and daring rotations.Shes one of the only women at the games who will attempt a Cork 7, a 720-degree spin on an off axis, while crossing her skis like an X.I usually go fast into the jumps and correct in the air to make the trick as big as I can, she said. And hopefully, I have enough control when I land.The womens moguls qualifying rounds are at 5:30 a.m. on Sunday Eastern Time, followed by the finals at 7 a.m.Heres how to watch the games. You can follow The New York Timess complete coverage here.And heres what else is happening:A great day for winter sports, as long as they dont require snow.Down in the mid-20s this morning, then an afternoon high of about 36 ( 7 degrees colder than in Pyeongchang), as clouds move in.The weekend looks warm (highs around 50) and wet, with steady rain from Saturday afternoon through most of Sunday.Advertisement• A group of nuns have found themselves in the middle of a dispute over a proposed affordable housing development next to their convent. [New York Times]• City Council members whose bid to file an amicus brief challenging the de Blasio administration on its property tax system was rejected this week by a judge. [New York Times]• The stabbing deaths of a Brooklyn couple may have been related to a dispute at their religious supply store, the police said. [New York Times]• Todd Howe, a government witness in a federal corruption trial, admitted that even after signing a cooperation deal, he still tried to defraud a hotel. [New York Times]• New Yorks dogs are as varied as its people, and their numbers can be a cipher for understanding gentrification, and sometimes predicting it. [New York Times]• A look at Canal Streets changing landscape. [Curbed NY]• New York has no law that specifically makes it illegal for police officers to have consensual sex with somebody they have arrested. [WNYC]•  Chirlane McCray, the first lady of New York City, announced the launch of Nychope, which will provide aid to domestic violence survivors. [Metro New York]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Lost and Found• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Advertisement• Icons in Their Own Right, an installation highlighting prominent African-Americans and pop culture icons, opens at the Old Stone House in Park Slope, Brooklyn. 5 p.m. [Free]• The Bronx novelist Tim Brown discusses his work with the Bronx Fiction Writers Group at Bronx Library Center. 6 p.m. [Free]•  Finding Samuel Lowe, a 2014 documentary about three black siblings from Harlem who discover Chinese relatives, at the Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning in Jamaica, Queens. 7:30 p.m. [Free]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.•  [Porto], a play about regulars at a bar in Bushwick, at the WP Theater on the Upper West Side. 8 p.m. [Through Feb. 25. Tickets start at $39]• Rangers host Flames, 7 p.m. (MSG). Islanders host Red Wings, 7 p.m. (MSG+).• Watch The New York Times Close Up, featuring The Timess Darcy Eveleigh, Emma Cott and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV.• Alternate-side parking is in effect but suspended on Monday for Lincolns Birthday.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday • A naturalist leads a tour of Highbridge Park starting at 158th Street and Edgecombe Avenue in Washington Heights. 9 a.m. [Free]• Bring your pup to the Lunar New Year Celebration with dog-friendly activities and face painting, music and calligraphy on Madison Avenue between 42nd and 86th Streets. 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. [Free]• Learn how to cook 18th-century recipes at the Queens County Farm Museum in Little Neck. 11 a.m. [$45]Advertisement• An evening of Romantic opera music, at The Church in the Gardens in Forest Hills, Queens. 2 p.m. [$20]• Look for seals with an urban ranger at Orchard Beach Nature Center in the Bronx. 2 p.m. [Free]• Devils at Blue Jackets, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Nets host Pelicans, 6 p.m. (YES).Sunday • Try out one of more than 400 fitness classes at the citys 13 recreations centers for free, at various locations. 8 a.m. and 9 p.m. [Free all week long]• Play a round of goalball, a Paralympic sports in which teams are blindfolded and use a ball with bells to score goals, at the Chelsea Recreation Center. 10:30 a.m. [Free]• The Israeli singer Achinoam Nini performs at Free Synagogue of Flushing in Queens. 3 p.m. [$36]• Rangers at Jets, 3 p.m. (MSG+). Knicks at Pacers, 5 p.m. (MSG). Islanders host Flames, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Devils host Bruins, 7 p.m. (MS+2).• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Today, you can eat a part of bagel history.In celebration of National Bagel and Lox Day, Acme Smoked Fish and Zuckers bagels are attempting to set the Guinness record for the worlds largest bagel and lox.Their goal is a 250-pound fish and bread combo, three feet in diameter.For their shot at breakfast bread glory, expert hand-rollers began forming 80 pounds of flour into dough at Zuckers in TriBeCa early this morning.AdvertisementIt will be boiled, baked and driven across the East River to the headquarters of Acme Smoked Fish in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, where it will be loaded with cream cheese, Nova Scotia salmon, sliced tomatoes, red onions and capers.In a world where records exist for fastest toilet (53.25 mph), longest underwater kiss using mouth to mouth breathing (20 minutes and 11 seconds), and most apples crushed by a bicep in one minute (10 by woman, 14 by man), we were surprised to find that creating the largest bagel and lox has never been attempted.(The largest bagel was 868 pounds and displayed at the New York State Fair in 2004.)After meticulous documentation of the bagel-making process and inspection by a Guinness judge, well find out if the team set the record — in 8 to 12 weeks.But you can enjoy their hard work today: The bagel and lox will be sliced up and served free at Acme Smoked Fish around noon.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MIKE IVES and CHARLES McDERMIDFEB. 7, 2018
Taiwan quakes, and Olympics drama with a side of awkwardness.Heres your Morning Briefing:• Global markets: Our business reporters are watching to see if Australia and Asia take their cue from Wednesdays stabilizing trend in the U.S.If youre a young investor, and this is your first market hiccup, we have some advice. And everyone can submit questions on the turmoil here. (We already tried to answer some.)President Trump, in his first comments about the stock market plunge, blamed the abrupt declines on the good (great) news in the economy, and called the volatility a big mistake._____• A second strong earthquake has struck Taiwan. Details are still emerging.The new earthquake hit less than 24 hours and in the same place as the first, about 13 miles northeast of the city of Hualien.AdvertisementAt least eight people died in that disaster, and rescuers had been scrambling to find dozens of people trapped or unaccounted for.Advertisement_____• North Korea is preparing for a military parade today in Pyongyang as Vice President Mike Pence arrives in South Korea for Fridays Olympic opening ceremony with both carrot and stick.The carrot: the possibility of a meeting with North Korean officials, one made even more intriguing by the simultaneous visit by Kim Yo-jong, above, the trusted sister of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.The stick: warnings that the U.S. would unveil its toughest and most aggressive sanctions on North Korea.Meanwhile, an outbreak of the debilitating, highly contagious norovirus — sometimes called cruise ship virus — has sickened security guards near Olympic sites._____• #Awkward.The Olympics are usually a chance for companies to splash their logos before millions of viewers.The Pyeongchang Games are different. The cozy ties between South Koreas government and the scandal-scarred conglomerate Samsung have made awkward optics for South Korean tycoons.No such problem for Japans womens Olympic hockey team. But the team is laser focused on winning a medal in Pyeongchang — and they wish youd stop calling them adorbs.AdvertisementAnd meet the SmartBroom, an engineering marvel invented (over beers in Canada) for the Olympic sport of curling. Its clients include sweepers from China, Denmark and Switzerland._____• President Xi Jinpings anticorruption campaign may be closing in on a former top leader.An executive, above, who set up companies for relatives of Wen Jiabao, Chinas prime minister from 2003 to 2013, was detained last year, her friends and business associates say. (The executive, Duan Weihong, also known as Whitney Duan, was a central figure in a 2012 Times investigation that showed Mr. Wens relatives controlled assets worth at least $2.7 billion.)As is often the case in Beijing, there has been no official acknowledgment of her detention and it is not clear who detained her, why and whether she is still being held.What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Shares in Wynn Resorts resumed trading after Steve Wynn, the billionaire casino mogul, resigned as chief executive amid sexual harassment accusations. He also resigned his chairmanship of the companys Macau branch. His future with Wynn Resorts is unclear, as is how Macau authorities will view the matter.• Tesla stock was surging ahead of its  earnings report today — possibly buoyed by the excitement over Elon Musks other company, SpaceX, after it launched a powerful rocket into space, and sent a Tesla sports car into orbit for what is expected to be eons.• The Los Angeles Times is being sold to Patrick Soon-Shiong, a billionaire doctor who grew up in apartheid South Africa, for $500 million. The deal also includes The San Diego Union-Tribune.• The dark side of tech: A limousine driver killed himself in front of New Yorks City Hall to protest the financial devastation wrought by Uber and its competitors.And early Facebook and Google employees, alarmed over the damaging effects of social networks and smartphones, are banding together to challenge the companies they helped build.Advertisement• Most U.S. stocks were higher. Heres a snapshot of global markets.• Prime Minister Narendra Modis estranged wife, Jashodaben Chimanlal, above, was thrust into the national spotlight after a car she was traveling in collided with a truck, killing one of her relatives. [The New York Times]• Japans imperial palace said that Princess Makos November wedding to a college classmate would be postponed until 2020. Insufficient preparations were cited, and the palace said that tabloid criticism of her fiancés family background played no role. [The Associated Press]• In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel agreed on a coalition deal bringing her closer to forming a government after five months of political limbo. The pact came at a price: Her party gave up the powerful Finance Ministry. [The New York Times]• From our Op-Ed desk: A student at the Australian National University writes that Fear is among Beijings most potent weapons in silencing Chinese-Australians. [The New York Times]• Peoplekind: Thank (or condemn) Canadas prime minister, Justin Trudeau, for pushing that word into headlines. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Experts say its essential to give kids time and space to play.• The desire to jump headfirst into new romances is only natural, therapists say. Here are some tips to keep from rushing into things.• Increase the flavor of a salmon recipe with anchovy-garlic butter.• Disney said the executive producers of Game of Thrones will write and produce a series of new Star Wars movies. (They will be separate from the Luke Skywalker films and Rian Johnsons Star Wars trilogy.)Advertisement• Online porn is everywhere, and young people sometimes learn much of what they know about sex from it. Our Magazine looks at a new approach being tried in some U.S. schools: teaching students to view porn more critically. • And Guantánamo Bay isnt known for its creature comforts, to put it mildly. Yet outside the notorious detention facility, our correspondent writes, the area has something resembling suburban American life, including a McDonalds, a bowling alley and an outdoor movie theater.Pyeongchang and Pyongyang: The South Korean host of the Winter Olympics and the North Korean capital have confusingly similar names.There does not seem to be any significance in the shared syllable, which is derived from the same Chinese root character meaning to pacify or to be level or flat. Pyongyang means peaceful land or flat land, and Pyeongchang means peaceful flourishing or peaceful prosperity.In the South, conservatives have criticized the government of President Moon Jae-in for welcoming the Norths participation and derided the Games as the Pyongyang Olympics.Liberals and the Moon administration countered that the event should be called the Pyeonghwa, or peace, Olympics.The host town originally spelled its name Pyongchang in English, but added a letter in 2000 and capitalized the C to become PyeongChang to distinguish itself from the Norths capital, our correspondent noted. Most news organizations, including The Times, decline to capitalize the C.But confusion persisted despite the rebranding. In 2014, a Kenyan man trying to attend a United Nations conference in Pyeongchang mistakenly flew to Pyongyang.AdvertisementInyoung Kang contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
FEB. 7, 2018
Updated, 10:36 a.m.Good morning on this messy Wednesday.As you head out today, watch your step.A devils brew of snow, sleet and rain in the forecast may make streets and sidewalks slick.Down in the subway, the footing might be even more treacherous: Has it ever seemed to you that on snowy or slushy days, station floors get unusually slippery?Were not talking about wet spots. We mean platforms and passageways that feel like greased-up slip-and-slides.If youve wondered what that lubey layer was, youre not alone.
            YO @MTA WHO'S JOB IS IT TO GREASE UP THESE PLATFORMS IN THE WINTER? WHAT IS THIS SCHMUTZ? LARD? TURTLE WAX? CROWN FRIED DEEP FRYER OIL?? WHY DOES THIS HAPPEN EVERY YEAR (this is the radio edit version so that @nytimes can embed this tweet ) pic.twitter.com/UJLsHY9pgm Our New York Times colleague Erin McCann recently asked on Twitter, Has New York seemed … more slippery this week? Not frozen ice, but like a fine film of soap all over the subway floor?AdvertisementUsers responded with anecdotes about face planting in Brooklyn, gingerly tiptoeing through corridors and skating in Vans across platforms.AdvertisementPeople have been hurt. Last month, Chris Wilson, 39, a software developer, needed eight stitches after slipping on the escalator at the South Ferry station.I wasnt walking down, he said. I wasnt actually doing anything. My foot just sort of slipped out from under me. It was definitely the slickness on the floor.Theories have emerged. Some blame ice melt, which can leave an oily residue when tracked in from the street. Others have suggested car exhaust or discarded fried chicken grease.We asked the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.Shams Tarek, a spokesman, said the slippery floors are from the combination of rain and snow tracked in from the street, other substances brought in on shoes, and high humidity in stations that traps moisture.The buildup on the subway floor — from shoes, trash, spills and exhaust — contains substances that dissolve in water, like salt and sugars, along with oily compounds, which dont, explained Sanat Kumar, a professor of chemical engineering at Columbia University.You just dont notice the oily stuff until it rains or snows because its caked together on the subway tile with everything else.Once you add water, whatever didnt dissolve is going to be oily, Professor Kumar said. On nonporous subway tiles, where hardly anything is absorbed, the slick stuff just sits on the surface.AdvertisementAs for why floors can seem more slippery on snowy days than on rainy days, Professor Kumar theorized, Its easier to carry snow in on your shoes, so youll have more water on the snowy days.(Update: Some readers have speculated that the M.T.A. has changed the kind of cleaning fluid it uses. It has not, Mr. Tarek said.)For now, the M.T.A. said it would continue to mop aggressively after both snow and rain — the latter of which is expected to fall for much of the rest of the day.Look for a high around 42. Tomorrow: clearing but colder.Heres what else is happening:• The National Transportation Safety Board officially concluded that failure to screen for sleep apnea in engineers has caused train crashes, including one in Hoboken, N.J., in late 2016, and another in Brooklyn last year. [New York Times]• A federal judge in Brooklyn has ruled that when Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug lord known as El Chapo, goes on trial in September, the jury will be anonymous. [New York Times]• Testimony from the governments star witness in a high-level Albany corruption trial continued Tuesday, offering a vivid and sometimes shadowy look at the inner workings of the State Capitol. [New York Times]• In a dramatic City Council hearing, officials said that 323,000 public housing residents had lost heat at least once since October. [New York Times]• MetroCard machines will not accept credit cards from 12:01 a.m. to 6 a.m. on Saturday while the computer system is upgraded. [New York Times]• An 11-year-old boy died in the hospital after falling through the ice of a Queens pond. [The New York Times]Advertisement• The Saloon Priest, Rev. Peter M. Colapietro, a New York personality who served Theater District parishes and was a regular at the neighborhoods celebrity hangouts, died on Monday. [New York Times]• Mayor Bill de Blasio said he was not in favor of the Manhattan district attorneys idea to let subway turnstile jumpers off easy. [New York Post]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Already the largest tenant at the Chelsea Market building, Google might be buying the property. [The Real Deal]• After Danny Meyer eliminated tipping at the Union Square Hospitality Group, he said, a sizable portion of his restaurant staff quit. [Eater NY]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: It Happened by Lincoln Center• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Buy your Valentine something sweet at a chocolatier on Brooklyns chocolate trail map. Store hours vary. [Free to explore]• Jason Priestley talks about, and screens, his new TV series Private Eyes at The Paley Center for Media in Midtown. 6:30 p.m. [$20]• Learn about the evolution of trilobites from a paleontologist at the American Museum of Natural History on the Upper West Side. 7 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P.]Advertisement• Join a monthly jazz session, or just listen, at Flushing Town Hall in Queens. 7 p.m. [$10, free for jamming musicians]• Rangers host Bruins, 8 p.m. (NBCS).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Speaking of dangerous substances, there are local developments on the Tide pod challenge front.For those who have somehow managed to avoid hearing about the phenomenon, Tide pods are candy-colored packets of laundry detergent and people have been posting videos of their attempts to eat them, some of which result in injury.Yesterday, a Manhattan state senator and a Queens assemblywoman called for a state law requiring detergent companies to make their products look less yummy.If you are determined to participate in the challenge — safely — a few local businesses have come up with alternatives.The Barcelona Bar in Midtown is now serving a Tide pod shot.And Vinnies Pizzerias in Greenpoint and Williamsburg, Brooklyn, are offering garish-looking Pied Pods that have the bright, alluring colors that youths crave BUT are 100 percent edible and 100 percent not soap.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Jonah Bromwich contributed reporting.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Se-Woong KooSEOUL, South Korea — In the run-up to the Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, some South Koreans have been grumbling that this may as well be the Pyongyang Games.Since the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, announced on Jan. 1 that he was interested in sending a delegation to the Games, there has been a flurry of inter-Korean agreements.Twenty-two North Korean athletes will participate in the Olympics, and they will arrive with some 230 cheerleaders in tow. The two Koreas are fielding a joint womens ice hockey team. And at the opening ceremony on Friday, they will march under a single flag, the Korean Unification Flag.The international news media has been buzzing about the new prospects for a secure peace on the Korean Peninsula, but not everyone in the South is happy about the welcome the North is receiving. And this time its not just the usual South Korean conservatives who are moaning.The idea that people in the South belong with their Northern brethren isnt universal, especially among the young. The exigencies of daily life — jobs, housing, income inequality — are far more pressing than uniting with what may as well be an alien country. Unification increasingly sounds like an abstract ideal, taught only in school and repeated ad nauseam by the political class.President Moon Jae-in appears to be paying a heavy political price for the rapprochement. Engagement to foster peace is worth exploring. But pulling out all the stops to accommodate Pyongyang on the basis that the two Koreas are one minjok (nation) — as Mr. Moon seems to be suggesting — comes across as outdated and out of touch.After all, we have seen this before.The two Koreas sent a joint team to the 1991 World Table Tennis Championship, and the women won a gold medal against China. That same year, they signed an agreement on reconciliation and nonaggression, seen as a significant step toward unification. Most South Koreans over 40 remember the national euphoria over these events.More hopeful years followed under the so-called Sunshine Policy of President Kim Dae-jung, the first progressive politician to take power since the adoption of a democratic Constitution in 1987, who held office from 1998 to 2003. The two Koreas marched together at the 2000 Sydney Olympics, flying the Korean Unification Flag. Cooperative economic ventures, limited to some border areas, were next.Everything came to naught in late 2006 when Pyongyang conducted its first nuclear test. And now North Korea seems closer than ever to becoming a real nuclear power (some say it already is).No matter who shoulders the blame for the Norths nuclear status and the tensions that have arisen as a result, the fact remains that Pyongyang is a difficult regime to deal with, one that is quick to take offense and doesnt hesitate to rain artillery fire on the South. Young South Koreans, who have little sense of connection to the North, tend to see only these current realities.Enthusiasm for unification is waning. A report last year by the Korea Institute of National Unification, a state-funded think tank, revealed a big gap in how the young and the old approach unification (and North Korea by extension): Nearly 50 percent of respondents under 30 didnt think being a single people required a single state, while only 20 percent thought unification was necessary. Among those 60 and older, the answers were the other way around, with almost 50 percent saying there should be one state for one nation.And a study published by the institute on Jan. 30 showed that more than 60 percent of respondents in their 20s said unification is not an immediate goal. Across all age brackets, respondents greatly prioritized the economy over unification.Mr. Moons government has appeared to be blind to this critical shift in popular sentiment, instead promoting the idea, to take a line from a presidential office Facebook post, that We are one with the North.As Mr. Moon pushed the one-nation rhetoric, his approval ratings took a dive, falling 10 percentage points in January, which coincided with inter-Korean dialogue on the Olympics (some say his attempt to regulate the cryptocurrency trade, a hot topic in South Korea, is another reason for his decline in favorability).His popularity has eroded even more among voters in their 20s — usually the more progressive segment of the population — dropping 14 percentage points between the second week of January and the beginning of this month.Even as a clear majority of South Koreans seem supportive of North Korean participation in the Games, different polls indicate that people are divided about flying the Korean Unification Flag, with one survey putting the public opposition at nearly 50 percent.To be clear, the Moon administration is playing nice with Kim Jong-un for strategic reasons. Yet the presidents government is doing a poor job persuading those who say its unfair to give North Koreans spots on the womens ice hockey team at the expense of South Korean players who trained hard. Nor does the government appear to have a credible strategy for when Pyongyang acts out.Moon Jae-in is in a tight spot. Reaching out to a thankless regime under the pretext of shared nationhood may contribute to an immediate reduction in tensions, but he is alienating a large segment of the South Korean electorate. The alternative — pursuing a hard line — may seem like common sense, but not when President Trump overtly threatens war against North Korea, thus putting the South in Pyongyangs cross hairs.Mr. Moon needs to do a better job explaining why it matters to court Pyongyang at this time. Its for the safety and well-being of all Koreans, not because of the shared blood between the two countries.Se-Woong Koo is the publisher of Korea Exposé.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
FEB. 8, 2018
Good morning on this chilly Thursday.When New York Fashion Week kicks off today, the catwalks of Manhattan will be filled with fabulously unaffordable outfits.But you can own some of this fabulosity for a pittance — maybe not the outfits, but the fabric theyre made of.All it takes is a subway ride to the last stop on the F, up four flights of warehouse stairs, past the noisy production lines of the Hanky Panky lingerie factory to the unglamorous showroom of Fabscrap in Jamaica, Queens.There, youll find designer silk faille, delicate corded lace appliqués, fire-red duchess satin, midnight wash denim, and whole hides of leather in tobacco, charcoal or cobalt — for as little as $5 a pound.AdvertisementFabscrap, founded in 2015, is a nonprofit that recycles discarded fabric from designers like Marc Jacobs, Oscar de la Renta and Eileen Fisher. Its part of a movement to make the fashion industry more sustainable.AdvertisementFabscraps founder, Jessica Schreiber, is expecting a glut of new stock, because after Fashion Week everyone cleans out.When we visited this week, volunteers picked fabric from garbage bags piled 12 feet high.Cotton, wool and spandex are separated, and smaller scraps are sent out to be made into fire blankets, insulation and car-door lining. The good pieces are meticulously organized by color and neatly folded in Fabscraps retail space.Last year Fabscrap collected 68,000 pounds of fabric — enough to fill 13,600 shopping bags or create an equal number of head-to-toe looks.Ms. Schreiber, 29, a former senior manager at the city sanitation department and self-described trash nerd, founded the nonprofit after noticing that New Yorks clothing recycling program didnt accept fabric.The city collects reusable clothes and takes it to Goodwill, she said. It didnt really fit their model.She started driving a U-Haul van around Midtown picking up 50-pound bags of fabric from designers. I got to know a lot of the freight elevator operators in the garment district, she said.She was often told, You work like a man. She took it as a compliment.Ms. Schreibers goal is to one day collect scraps from clothing producers, which generate a lot more waste than designers. Thats where you have the potential to make a real impact, she said.AdvertisementBut for now, shes looking to expand her network of over 600 volunteers, who get free fabric and an important lesson.When you walk in and see this pile of waste its such an educational moment, she said. Theres no better way to change what someone thinks about waste than for them to see it and put their hands on it.Heres what else is happening:Yesterdays slush is but a memory.It will be sunny and dry, but temperatures might not get above freezing.Wrap a fabric scrap around your neck: The wind could make it feel like 15 on your commute.• Though liberal, Mayor Bill de Blasio says the city should not go easy on turnstile jumpers. [New York Times]• Data suggests that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is managing to stabilize what has been a system riddled by delays and plagued by failing infrastructure. Riders, however, cant tell. [New York Times]• The high school graduation rate in New York State increased half a percentage point, according to new data. [New York Times]• Frederic Lyman taught at four private schools in the 1970s and 80s. He is now known to have engaged in sexual misconduct with students at all four of them, an investigation revealed. [New York Times]• Roman Catholic dioceses in Illinois and New York are fighting over where Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen, who died in 1979, should be buried. [New York Times]Advertisement• Google is buying Chelsea Market for $2.4 billion, part of the rapid expansion of technology companies in the city. [New York Times]• The federal corruption trial against Joseph Percoco may hinge on the credibility of the governments key witness, Todd Howe; under cross-examination, Mr. Howe admitted to being a habitual liar. [New York Times]• The T.W.A. Flight Center at Kennedy International Airport is being converted into a hotel slated to open in 2019. [New York Times]• This year, youll be able to go camping on Governors Island. A luxury glamping company will bring overnight lodging to the island. [Curbed NY]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A look at the nearly 400 workers whose job is to build trust with people living on the streets and bring them indoors. [WNYC]• Affordable housing is still out of reach for many in Connecticut, a new report revealed. [Hartford Courant] • Todays Metropolitan Diary: A Great Commute• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Sip botanical cocktails and craft something for your Valentine at the Queens Botanical Garden in Flushing. 6 p.m. [$18]• A discussion about police violence with authors and professors at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem. 6:30 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• Zadie Smith talks about her new book Feel Free at Barnes & Noble on the Upper West Side. 7 p.m. [Free]• Dan Rather reflects on patriotism at Temple Emanu-El on the Upper East Side. 7 p.m. [$18, includes a copy of Mr. Rathers book What Unites Us: Reflections on Patriotism]• An immersive staging of Dutchman, about race and gender in the 1960s, at the Secret Theater in Long Island City, Queens. 7:30 p.m. [$20]• Looking ahead: Common talks about his work and career with Marc Lacey, the national editor of The New York Times, at the Kaufman Music Center on the Upper West Side. Tuesday at 7 p.m. [$40]• Islanders at Sabres, 7 p.m. (MSG+2). Devils host Flames, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Knicks at Raptors, 7:30 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.If discount fashion is not your thing, heres another way you might save some money: Get help doing your taxes.Our public libraries are working with organizations like AARP, Ariva, Food Bank, MMCC and the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program to offer free filing help — and prevent you from overtipping Uncle Sam.AdvertisementYou have two extra days to file this year: The deadline is April 17. But why procrastinate? Those envelopes with Important Tax Documents Enclosed should have all landed by now. Dont wait till you lose them.You can get help today at:• The Parkchester Library in the Bronx from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. (Sign-ups begin at 8 a.m.)• The Epiphany Library in Midtown from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. (First come first served)•  The Todt Hill-Westerleigh Library in Staten Island beginning at 11 a.m.•  The Riverside Library near Lincoln Center from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.•  The Chatham Square Library in Lower Manhattan from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.•  And freelancers will get special attention at the Science, Industry and Business Library in Midtown from 6 to 7:30 p.m.A full listing of more than 200 library tax-preparation events can be found here.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

      Por NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, 
    
GABRIEL J.X. DANCE, 
    
RICH HARRIS and 
    
MARK HANSEN

JAN. 27, 2018

Todos quieren ser populares en internet. Algunos incluso pagan por ello. Descubre el mercado negro de las redes sociales.


              Todos quieren ser populares en internet.Algunos incluso pagan por ello.Descubre el mercado negro de las redes sociales.
            


                Por NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, GABRIEL J.X. DANCE, RICHARD HARRIS and MARK HANSEN



  
    Ilustración fotográfica por Adam Ferriss
  


      Por NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, GABRIEL J.X. DANCE, RICHARD HARRIS and MARK HANSEN


La verdadera Jessica Rychly es una adolescente de Minnesota que tiene una amplia sonrisa y el cabello ondulado. Le gusta leer y escuchar las canciones del rapero Post Malone. Cuando usa Facebook o Twitter, a veces comenta sobre las cosas que la aburren o hace bromas con sus amigos. Ocasionalmente, como muchos adolescentes y jóvenes, publica una selfi.Pero en Twitter existe una versión de Jessica que ninguno de sus amigos o familiares podría reconocer. Aunque las dos cuentas comparten su nombre, retrato y la misma biografía de una sola línea (Tengo problemas), la otra Jessica ha promocionado cuentas de inversiones inmobiliarias canadienses, criptomonedas y una estación de radio en Ghana. La cuenta falsa siguió o retuiteó cuentas en árabe e indonesio, idiomas que Jessica no habla. Mientras ella tenía 17 años y estaba en el último año del colegio, su contraparte falsa frecuentemente promovía pornografía gráfica, al retuitear cuentas como Squirtamania y Porno Dan.Todas esas cuentas pertenecen a clientes de una oscura empresa estadounidense llamada Devumi que ha recaudado millones de dólares en el mercado global del fraude en las redes sociales. Devumi vende seguidores de Twitter y retuits a celebridades, negocios y cualquier persona que quiera ser más popular o ejercer influencia en internet. Usando un conjunto de al menos 3,5 millones de cuentas automatizadas —cada una de ellas ha sido vendida muchas veces— la compañía le ha proporcionado a sus clientes más de 200 millones de seguidores en Twitter, según reveló una investigación de The New York Times.Las cuentas que más se parecen a las personas reales, como la de Rychly, muestran el patrón de una especie de robo de identidad social a gran escala. Al menos 55.000 cuentas de Devumi usan los nombres, fotos de perfil, lugares de origen y otros detalles personales de usuarios reales de Twitter, incluidos menores de edad, según un análisis de datos realizado por el Times.No quiero que mi foto esté relacionada a esa cuenta, ni mi nombre, dijo Rychly, quien ahora tiene 19 años. No puedo creer que alguien pague por eso. Es simplemente horrible.Estas cuentas son monedas falsas en la floreciente economía de la influencia en internet, que toca prácticamente cualquier industria en la que una audiencia masiva —o la ilusión de que la hay— pueda ser monetizada. En la actualidad las cuentas falsas que han sido creadas por gobiernos, delincuentes y empresarios infestan las redes sociales. Según algunos cálculos, hasta 48 millones de los usuarios activos de Twitter, casi el 15 por ciento, son cuentas automatizadas diseñadas para simular ser personas reales, aunque la compañía afirma que ese número es mucho menor.En noviembre, Facebook reveló a sus inversores que tenía al menos el doble de usuarios falsos que los estimados anteriormente, lo que indica que existen unas 60 millones de cuentas automatizadas en la plataforma de medios sociales más grande del mundo. Estas cuentas falsas, conocidas como bots, pueden ayudar a influenciar a las audiencias publicitarias y replantear los debates políticos. Pueden afectar negocios y arruinar reputaciones. Sin embargo, desde el punto de vista legal, su creación y venta están en una zona gris.La continua viabilidad de cuentas fraudulentas e interacciones en las plataformas de redes sociales, y la profesionalización de estos servicios fraudulentos, es muestra de que todavía hay mucho trabajo por hacer, dijo el senador demócrata de Virginia Mark Warner, quien también es miembro del Comité de Inteligencia del Senado de Estados Unidos, que ha estado investigando la propagación de cuentas falsas en Facebook, Twitter y otras plataformas.A pesar de las crecientes críticas a las compañías de medios sociales y el mayor escrutinio de los funcionarios electos, el comercio de seguidores falsos sigue siendo opaco en gran medida. Si bien Twitter y otras plataformas prohíben comprar seguidores, Devumi y docenas de otros sitios los venden abiertamente. Y las compañías de redes sociales, cuyo valor de mercado está estrechamente vinculado al número de personas que usan sus servicios, establecen sus propias reglas para detectar y eliminar cuentas falsas.El fundador de Devumi, German Calas, negó que su compañía vendiera seguidores falsos y dijo que no sabía nada sobre las identidades sociales robadas a los usuarios reales. Las acusaciones son falsas y no tenemos conocimiento de ninguna de esas actividades, afirmó Calas en un intercambio de correos electrónicos en noviembre.The New York Times revisó los registros comerciales y judiciales que evidencian que Devumi tiene más de 200.000 clientes, incluyendo estrellas de reality shows, atletas profesionales, comediantes, oradores de TED, pastores y modelos. En la mayoría de los casos, según muestran los registros, esos clientes compraron sus propios seguidores. En otros, sus empleados, agentes, compañías de relaciones públicas, familiares o amigos hicieron la compra. Por solo unos centavos de dólar por cada uno, a veces incluso por menos, Devumi ofrece seguidores de Twitter, visitas en YouTube, reproducciones en SoundCloud y recomendaciones en LinkedIn.El actor John Leguizamo tiene seguidores de Devumi. También los tienen Michael Dell, el multimillonario de la informática, y Ray Lewis, el comentarista de fútbol americano y antiguo jugador de los Ravens de Baltimore. Kathy Ireland, quien inició su carrera como modelo y hoy preside un imperio de licencias de 500 millones de dólares, tiene cientos de miles de seguidores falsos de Devumi, al igual que Akbar Gbajabiamila, el presentador del programa American Ninja Warrior. Incluso una integrante de la junta de Twitter, Martha Lane Fox, tiene algunos de esos seguidores.En momentos en que Facebook, Twitter y Google se enfrentan a una epidemia de manipulación política y noticias falsas, los seguidores falsos de Devumi fungen como la infantería de las batallas políticas en línea. Los clientes de esa empresa incluyen tanto a partidarios acérrimos de Donald Trump como a comentaristas liberales y conservadores de la televisión estadounidense.Los productos de Devumi también atienden las necesidades de políticos y gobiernos del resto del mundo. Un editor de Xinhua, la agencia noticiosa china, le pagó a la compañía estadounidense para conseguir cientos de miles de seguidores y retuits en Twitter, una plataforma que está prohibida por el gobierno chino pero que es vista como un foro para la propaganda al exterior. El año pasado, un asesor del presidente ecuatoriano Lenín Moreno adquirió decenas de miles de seguidores y de retuits para las cuentas de la campaña electoral de Moreno.Kristin Binns, una portavoz de Twitter, dijo que la empresa no suele suspender a usuarios bajo sospecha de adquirir bots, en parte porque es difícil saber quién es el responsable de una compra determinada. Twitter no quiso revelar si un muestreo de cuentas falsas proporcionado por el Times —cuentas hechas a partir de la información de usuarios reales— violaban las políticas de la empresa en contra de la suplantación de identidad.Seguimos luchando para responder a cualquier automatización maliciosa en nuestra plataforma, así como cuentas falsas o de spam, dijo Binns.A diferencia de algunas empresas de redes sociales, Twitter no exige que sus cuentas estén vinculadas a una persona real. También permite un mayor acceso automatizado a su plataforma que otras compañías, lo que facilita la creación y el control de grandes cantidades de cuentas.Por Richard Harris y Danny DeBeliusLas redes sociales son un mundo virtual en el que la mitad son bots y el resto es gente real, dijo Rami Essaid, fundador de Distil Networks, una empresa de ciberseguridad que se especializa en erradicar redes de bots. No puedes aceptar sin más lo que dice un tuit. Y no todo es lo que parece.Resulta que eso incluye a Devumi.El año pasado, tres mil millones de personas iniciaron sesión en redes como Facebook, WhatsApp o la china Sina Weibo. El anhelo colectivo del mundo por establecer una conexión no solo ha cambiado la composición de la lista de las 500 empresas con mayor valuación de Fortune y reformulado el mundo de la publicidad, sino que ha creado un nuevo indicador de estatus: la cantidad de personas que te siguen, te dan me gusta o te agregan como amigo. Para algunos artistas o empresarios, ese estatus virtual es un factor de influencia en el mundo real. Los conteos de seguidores en redes sociales pueden determinar quiénes los contratan, cuánto les pagan por patrocinios o compromisos e, incluso, cómo los clientes potenciales evalúan sus productos o negocios.Una cantidad alta de seguidores también es clave para los influenciadores que aspiran a marcar tendencia o para las estrellas de YouTube a quienes las empresas les dan miles de millones de dólares al año para patrocinar sus productos. Mientras más alcance tengan esas personalidades, más dinero ganan. De acuerdo con datos de Captiv8, una empresa que vincula a los influenciadores con las marcas, alguien con 100.000 seguidores puede ganar hasta 2000 dólares por un solo tuit promocionado, mientras que alguien con un millón de seguidores podría cobrar hasta 20.000 dólares.La fama genuina a veces conlleva una influencia real en redes sociales, con los fanáticos que siguen a sus estrellas de cine favoritas, a cocineros célebres y modelos. Pero también hay atajos disponibles: en sitios como Social Envy y DIYLikes.com tan solo se requiere dar un número de tarjeta para comprar un ejército de seguidores en cualquier plataforma social en línea.Ves a un número de seguidores más alto o una mayor cantidad de retuits y supones que esa persona es importante o que a ese tuit le fue bien, dijo Rand Fishkin, fundador de Moz, compañía que desarrolla software de optimización y posicionamiento en motores de búsquedas. Como resultado, es más probable que tú también lo amplifiques, lo compartas o que sigas a esa persona.Twitter y Facebook pueden ser influenciadas de manera similar. Las plataformas sociales quieren recomendarte cosas y dicen: ¿Lo que estamos recomendando es popular?, dijo Julian Tempelsman, cofundador de Smyte, firma de ciberseguridad que ayuda a empresas a combatir el fraude y abuso en línea y a los bots. La cantidad de seguidores es uno de los factores que toman en cuenta.Si haces una búsqueda en Google sobre cómo conseguir más seguidores, Devumi estará entre los principales resultados. Su sitio se nota pulido y destaca sus oficinas en Manhattan, testimonios de clientes y una garantía de reembolso. Lo mejor de todo, según promete Devumi, es que los productos de la empresa tienen el visto bueno de la plataforma para la cual venden seguidores. Solo utilizamos técnicas de promoción que han sido aprobadas por Twitter para que nunca corras el riesgo de que suspendan o penalicen tu cuenta, asegura.Para entender mejor el negocio de Devumi, contratamos sus servicios. En abril, el Times creó una cuenta de prueba en Twitter y le pagó a Devumi 225 dólares por 25.000 seguidores; alrededor de un centavo de dólar por cada uno. Como se promete, los primeros 10.000 parecían ser personas reales. Tenían fotografías y nombres completos, la ciudad en la que se encontraban y biografías que parecían ser auténticas. Una cuenta se asemejaba a la de Rychly, la joven de Minnesota.Pero vistas más de cerca había detalles extraños. Los nombres de las cuentas tenían letras de más o usaban guion bajo o sustituían letras tan similares que el cambio era casi imperceptible, como una ele minúscula en vez de una i mayúscula.Por Richard Harris y Danny DeBeliusLos siguientes 15.000 seguidores de Devumi eran más claramente sospechosos: no tenían imágenes de perfil y en vez de nombres tenían una mezcla de letras, números y fragmentos de palabras.En agosto, un reportero del Times le envió un correo a Calas para pedirle que contestara algunas preguntas sobre Devumi; Calas no respondió al correo. Twitter prohíbe vender o comprar seguidores o retuits mientras que Devumi le promete a su clientela discreción absoluta. Tu información siempre se mantiene confidencial dice el sitio web de la empresa. Nuestros seguidores se ven igual que otros seguidores y siempre llegan de manera natural. La única manera en la que alguien va a saber es si le dices.Pero los registros de la empresa revisados por el Times revelan mucho de lo que Devumi y sus clientes prefieren ocultar.La mayoría de los compradores mejor conocidos de Devumi venden productos, servicios o a sí mismos en las redes. En entrevistas dieron explicaciones variadas: compraron a los seguidores porque tenían curiosidad sobre cómo funcionaba o se sintieron presionados para tener un número de seguidores más altos para ellos mismos o para sus clientes. Todos lo hacen, dijo la actriz Deirdre Lovejoy, clienta de Devumi.Aunque algunos dijeron que creían que Devumi les daba fanáticos potenciales o clientes reales, otros admitieron que sabían o sospechaban que las cuentas eran falsas. Varios dijeron arrepentirse de haber hecho la compra.Es un fraude, dijo James Cracknell, remador británico y medallista de oro olímpico que le compró 50.000 seguidores a Devumi. La gente que juzga según cuántos me gusta o cuántos seguidores… no es algo saludable.Kathy Ireland tiene más de un millón de seguidores en Twitter, que usa frecuentemente para promocionar empresas con las que tiene acuerdos de patrocinio. Pero en enero del año pasado Ireland solo tenía unos 160.000 seguidores. El mes siguiente, un empleado de su agencia de licencias de marca, Sterling/Winters, gastó unos 2000 dólares para conseguir 300.000 seguidores más, de acuerdo con los registros de Devumi. El empleado después hizo más adquisiciones, según reconoció en una entrevista. Un análisis del Times halló que la mayoría de los seguidores de Ireland parecen ser bots.Una portavoz dijo que ese empleado actuó sin la autorización de Ireland y que había sido suspendido después de que el Times preguntó al respecto. Estoy segura de que pensó que estaba cumpliendo con sus responsabilidades, pero no es algo que debería haber hecho, dijo la vocera, Rona Menashe.De manera similar, Lane Fox, pionera en el comercio electrónico, integrante del parlamento británico y de la junta de Twitter, culpó a un empleado que habría actuado por cuenta propia por una serie de compras a Devumi hechas a lo largo de un año. Se negó a decir qué empleado lo habría hecho.Varios clientes de Devumi o sus representantes contactados por el Times se negaron a hacer comentarios. Muchos otros no respondieron a intentos reiterados para contactarlos.Algunos negaron haber hecho compras a Devumi. Entre ellos está Ashley Knight, la asistente personal de Ray Lewis, el futbolista, cuyo correo electrónico era el listado en una orden para 250.000 seguidores. La cuenta personal de Twitter de Paul Hollywood, panadero célebre y juez de The Great British Bake-off, fue eliminada después de que el Times le envió preguntas por correo. Hollywood respondió así: La cuenta no existe.Muchas de las celebridades, líderes empresariales, astros deportivos y otros usuarios de Twitter compraron a sus seguidores directamente, de acuerdo con registros. En otros casos, la compra fue hecha por agentes, familiares, empleados y otros asociados.Por Richard Harris y Danny DeBeliusHillary Rosen, consultora en relaciones públicas y colaboradora de CNN, compró más de medio millón de seguidores falsos a Devumi en dos años. En una entrevista, dijo que esas compras fueron hechas como experimento para ver cómo funcionaba. Hizo más de una decena de adquisiciones entre 2015 y 2017, de acuerdo con los registros de Devumi.Otros clientes dijeron que se habían sentido presionados por sus empleadores para tener más seguidores. Marcus Holmlund era el encargado de redes sociales de la agencia de modelaje Wilhemina. Poco después de haber llegado al puesto, un supervisor le dijo que no estaba consiguiendo suficientes seguidores y que debía o comprarlos o encontrar otro empleo. Holmlund terminó pagando él mismo por las cuentas a Devumi antes de dejar la empresa en 2015 (una portavoz de Wilhemina se negó a hacer comentarios).Me sentí pasmado por la amenaza de ser despedido o, lo que es peor, nunca poder volver a trabajar en la industria de la moda, dijo Holmlund. Desde entonces le digo a quienes me preguntan que es un engaño.Varios clientes de Devumi reconocieron que habían comprado bots porque sus carreras dependían, en parte, de aparentar tener influencia en redes sociales. Nadie te toma en serio si no tienes una presencia notoria, dijo Jason Schenker, economista que se especializa en pronósticos económicos y que ha comprado unos 260.000 seguidores.No es de sorprenderse que Devumi también ha vendido millones de seguidores y retuits a personas en el mundo del entretenimiento que son apenas medianamente conocidos, como el actor Ryan Hurst, de la serie Sons of Anarchy. En 2016 y 2017, compró un total de 750.000 seguidores, aproximadamente tres cuartos de los que tiene ahora. El costo fue menor a 4000 dólares, de acuerdo con los registros de Devumi. (Hurst no respondió a solicitudes de comentario).La empresa también le vende bots a estrellas de reality shows, que utilizan esa fama para cobrar por hacer actos de aparición o patrocinios. Sonja Morgan, del programa The Real Housewives of New York City, usa su cuenta de Twitter impulsada por Devumi para promover su línea de moda, una aplicación para compras y un sitio web en el que vende saludos personalizados en video.Un antiguo concursante de American Idol, Clay Aiken, incluso le pagó a Devumi para hacerle eco a una queja contra Volvo. Los bots de Devumi le dieron retuit más de cinco mil veces. Ni Aiken ni Morgan respondieron a solicitudes de comentario.Más de cien personas que se describen a sí mismas como influenciadores –cuya valía en términos monetarios está aun más vinculada a la cantidad de seguidores– han comprado las cuentas falsas de Devumi. Justin Blau, un popular DJ cuyo nombre artístico es 3LAU, adquirió 50.000 seguidores y miles de retuits. En un correo electrónico, Blau dijo que un exmiembro de su equipo de administración los compró sin su aprobación.Al menos cinco personas que le han comprado seguidores a Devumi también son contratistas de HelloSociety, una agencia para influencers de la que es dueña The New York Times (una portavoz del Times dijo que la compañía intentó verificar que la audiencia de cada contratista fuera legítima y que no hicieran negocios con nadie que violara ese estándar). Lucas Peterson, periodista independiente que colabora con la sección de viajes del Times, también ha comprado seguidores de Devumi.Los influenciadores no necesitan ser ampliamente conocidos para hacerse con dinero de patrocinios. De acuerdo con un reportaje reciente en el tabloide británico The Sun, los hermanos adolescentes Arabella y Jaadn Daho ganaron 100.000 dólares trabajando con marcas como Amazon, Disney, Louis Vuitton y Nintendo. Arabella, quien tiene 14 años, tuitea con el nombre de Amazing Arabella.Las cuentas de los hermanos, según los registros de Devumi, son potenciadas por miles de retuits que compró su madre y mánager, Shadia Daho. (Quien no respondió a varios intentos de contactarla por correo y vía una empresa de relaciones públicas).Mientras Devumi vende millones de seguidores de manera directa a celebridades e influenciadores, cuenta también entre sus clientes a agencias de publicidad y relaciones públicas que compran los bots para sus propios clientes. Phil Pallen, estratega para marcas en Los Ángeles, le ofrece a sus clientes campañas de crecimiento y publicidad en redes sociales. De acuerdo con los registros de Devumi, Pallen le ha pagado varias veces a la empresa para cumplir con esas promesas. A inicios de 2014, por ejemplo, adquirió decenas de miles de seguidores para Lori Greiner, coconductora del programa Shark Tank.Al principio, Pallen negó haber adquirido esos seguidores. Después de que el Times contactó a Greiner, Pallen afirmó que había experimentado con la empresa pero que dejó de hacerlo hace mucho tiempo. Un abogado de Greiner dijo que ella le pidió que dejara de hacerlo cuando se enteró de las primeras compras. Sin embargo, los registros muestran que Pallen le compró más seguidores a Greiner en 2016.Los consultores de mercadotecnia también compran a seguidores para sí mismos, como si compraran la evidencia para respaldar su supuesta pericia. En el 2015, Jeetendr Sehdev, exprofesor de la Universidad de California del Sur que se autodenomina la autoridad líder del mundo en marcas de celebridades, comenzó a comprar cientos de miles de seguidores falsos a Devumi.No respondió a solicitudes de comentario, pero en su reciente libro éxito en ventas, The Kim Kardashian Principle: Why Shameless Sells (el principio de Kim Kardashian: por qué vende ser descarado), explicó de otra manera el alza en sus seguidores. Dijo que su seguimiento en cuenta de redes sociales se disparó porque descubrió el verdadero secreto de la influencia de las celebridades: La clave es la autenticidad.Entre los seguidores de Sehdev estaba Rychly… o, al menos, la copia de la cuenta de la joven. La cuenta falsa de Rychly, creada en 2014, fue incluida en las órdenes de compra de cientos de clientes de Devumi. Ha retuiteado a Schenker, el econimista, y a Arabella Daho, la influenciadora adolescente. La Rychly falsa terminó entre los seguidores de Hollywood, el panadero, del disc-jockey francés DJ Snake y de Ireland. (Los seguidores comprados de DJ Snake fueron adquiridos por un antiguo mánager y Standen no respondió a solicitudes de comentario).La Rychly falsa también retuiteó por lo menos cinco cuentas vinculadas al pornógrafo estadounidense Dan Leal, quien vive en Hungría y usa la cuenta @PornoDan. Leal ha comprado unos 150.000 seguidores a Devumi en los últimos años y es uno de al menos doce clientes de esa empresa que son parte de la industria del entretenimiento adulto.En un correo, Leal dijo que la compra de seguidores para su negocio le ha generado más que suficientes ganancias para compensar el gasto. Añadió que no le preocupa ser penalizado por Twitter. Un sinfín de figuras públicas, empresas, bandas musicales, etc., compran seguidores, escribió. Si Twitter tuviera que sacar a todos los que lo hacen no quedaría prácticamente ninguno de ellos.Devumi ha vendido decenas de miles de bots de alta calidad que son similares, de acuerdo con un análisis del Times. En algunos casos un solo usuario real de Twitter fue transformado en cientos de diferentes bots; cada uno una variante con cambios mínimos respecto al original.Por Richard Harris y Mark HansenLas cuentas falsas utilizaron identidades sociales de usuarios de Twitter registrados en los cincuenta estados que componen Estados Unidos y en decenas de países que eran tanto adultos como menores de edad; replicaron la información de usuarios muy activos y de quienes no habían iniciado sesión en meses o hasta en años.Sam Dodd, ahora estudiante de universidad y quien aspira a ser cineasta, creó su cuenta en su segundo año del colegio preparatorio en Maryland. Antes de graduarse ya habían sido copiados sus detalles de Twitter a una cuenta bot.Esta no tuvo actividad sino hasta el año pasado, cuando comenzó a retuitear de manera continua a clientes de Devumi.No sé por qué replicaron mi identidad; soy un estudiante universitario de 20 años, dijo Dodd. No soy alguien conocido. Pero incluso así la identidad social de Dodd tiene valor en la economía de la influencia. De acuerdo con los precios publicados en diciembre, Duvemi vendía a seguidores de alta calidad por menos de dos centavos. Si la identidad social de Dodd es vendida a unos dos mil clientes –el número promedio que siguen las cuentas bots de Devumi– esta empresa se haría con unos 30 dólares.Esas identidades sociales robadas son claves para la marca Devumi. Los bots de alta calidad son los que usualmente llegan primero a los clientes, seguidos por unos de baja calidad; como si entregaran queso parmesano rallado junto con aserrín.Algunos de los bots de alta calidad de Devumi de hecho remplazan a una cuenta inactiva –alguien que dejó de usar el servicio– con una falsa. Whitney Wolfe, asistente ejecutiva que vive en Florida, abrió una cuenta de Twitter en 2008, cuando ayudaba en la planeación de bodas. Para cuando dejó de usarla en 2014 ya había sido creada una cuenta falsa con su información personal, que ha retuiteado las publicaciones de actrices de la industria pornográfica y a varios influenciadores.Ese contenido –de mujeres en tanga y fotografías de los pechos de mujeres– no es para nada lo que quiero que se asocie a mi fe, a mi nombre o a donde vivo, dijo Wolfe, quien es parte de una congregación baptista.Otras víctimas seguían siendo activas en Twitter cuando los bots de Devumi empezaron a suplantar su identidad. Salle Ingle, ingeniera de 40 años que vive en Colorado, dijo que le preocupaba que un posible empleador se topara con la versión falsa si revisaba su actividad en redes sociales como parte del proceso de contratación. Cuando el Times le avisó sobre la cuenta, ella contactó a Twitter y logró que fuera desactivada.Después de enviarle el correo a Calas el año pasado, un reportero del Times visitó la dirección en Manhattan que lista el sitio web de Devumi. En el edificio rentan decenas de oficinas, pero Devumi y su empresa matriz, Bytion, no parecen estar entre los arrendatarios. Un portavoz del dueño del edificio dijo que ni Devumi ni Bytion han rentado espacios ahí.Como los seguidores que vende, la oficina de Devumi es una ilusión.En la vida real, Devumi tiene su sede en un edificio de oficinas arriba de un restaurante de comida mexicana en West Palm Beach, Florida, y frente a un callejón repleto de basureros. Calas vive cerca en un penthouse.En su perfil de LinkedIn, Calas se describe como un empresario serial con antecedentes en la industria de la tecnología y un posgrado del Instituto Tecnológico de Massachusetts (MIT). Pero la imagen pública de Calas también es una mezcla de fantasía y realidad.Calas, quien tiene 27 años, creció en el sur de Florida. Cuando era adolescente aprendió diseño web y construyó los sitios de varias compañías locales, de acuerdo con versiones anteriores de su página web personal que están guardadas en el Internet Archive.Con el tiempo se autoenseñó técnicas de optimización de búsquedas: el arte de lograr que una página web termine más arriba al usar Google u otro motor de búsqueda. En el colegio comenzó a tomar clases en la universidad Palm Beach State, donde consiguió un título técnico en 2012, según una portavoz de la escuela. Pocos años después, Calas afirmaba haber construido decenas de empresas web con más de diez millones de clientes como parte de Bytion.Inicié esta compañía con mil dólares en el banco, sin inversores, y solo con una ardiente pasión por el éxito, escribió Calas en el sitio de listados laborales Glassdoor.Conforme crecieron sus ambiciones también lo hizo su supuesto historial. Una copia de su CV publicada en línea en 2014 dice que consiguió una licenciatura en Física de la Universidad de Princeton en el 2000, cuando habría tenido unos 10 años, y un doctorado en ciencias computacionales del MIT. Representantes de ambas escuelas dijeron que no tienen registro alguno de que Calas haya estado inscrito. Su página actual de LinkedIn dice que tiene una maestría en negocios internacionales por MIT, pese a que no es un posgrado que exista en esa institución.De acuerdo con exempleados de Devumi entrevistados por el Times, había una rotación constante del personal y Calais fragmentaba mucho las operaciones. Los empleados a veces no tenían idea de qué estaban haciendo sus colegas, hasta con los que compartían proyectos. Aunque estos empleados pidieron mantenerse anónimos por temor a demandas o porque firmaron acuerdos de confidencialidad, en el sitio Glassdoor hay comentarios muy similares de otros antiguos trabajadores, que dicen que Calas era poco comunicativo y exigió que instalaran software de monitoreo en sus dispositivos personales.Buena parte del personal de atención al cliente de Devumi está basado en Filipinas, lo que quizá le haya ayudado a Calas a reducir costos, pero también lo expuso a él mismo ser víctima del robo de su identidad social.En agosto, Calas presentó una demanda contra Ronwaldo Boado, contratista filipino que había trabajado como asistente de soporte en atención al cliente. Después de ser despedido por pelearse con otros integrantes del equipo, Boado tomó el control de un correo de Devumi en el que había más de 170.000 solicitudes de órdenes de clientes, según dice Calas en los documentos legales. Luego Boado creó un Devumi falso. (Algunos detalles de la demanda y de Devumi fueron reportados anteriormente por el Bureau of Investigative Journalism).Calas acusó que Boado usó un nombre muy similar, DevumiBoost, y el mismo diseño del sitio web, con todo y la dirección en Manhattan. Durante julio pasado, Boado –haciéndose pasar por un empleado de Devumi– le escribió a cientos de clientes de esta empresa para decirles que sus órdenes iban a ser procesadas por DevumiBoost. Luego también se hizo pasar por los clientes enviando correos a Devumi con diversos alias para pedir cancelar órdenes. (Boado no respondió a correos solicitándole respuesta a las acusaciones de Calas).La demanda de Calas también reveló algo más: parece que Devumi no hace sus propios bots. En cambio, los compra al mayoreo como parte de un mercado global de cuentas falsas en redes sociales.Esparcidos por todo el internet hay diversos sitios web con los que fabricantes anónimos de bots se conectan con minoristas como Devumi. Mientras que los clientes individuales llegan a comprar directo de estos sitios –Peakerr, CheapPanel o YTbot, entre otros– son menos amigables para un usuario directo. Algunas, por ejemplo, no aceptan pagos con tarjeta, solo Bitcoin.Cada sitio vende seguidores, me gusta y compartir al por mayor para diversas redes sociales en diferentes idiomas. Las cuentas que venden llegan a cambiar de manos en varias ocasiones y a ser comercializadas por más de un vendedor.Devumi, según un exempleado, utilizaba bots de diferentes fabricantes según el precio, la calidad y la confiabilidad. En Peakerr, por ejemplo, mil bots en inglés de alta calidad con fotografías de perfil cuestan poco más de un dólar. Devumi cobra 17 dólares por la misma cantidad.Ese margen de ganancia le ha permitido a Calas construir una pequeña fortuna, de acuerdo con los registros de la empresa. En tan solo unos años, Devumi vendió alrededor de 200 millones de seguidores de Twitter a por lo menos 39.000 clientes, lo que representa un tercio o más de los 6 millones de dólares en ventas durante ese periodo.En diciembre, Calas pidió que el Times le diera ejemplos de bots que habían copiado información de usuarios reales. Después de recibir los nombres de diez cuentas, Calas, quien había aceptado dar una entrevista, pidió más tiempo para analizarlas y después dejó de responder a los correos.Binns, la portavoz de Twitter, dijo que la empresa no revisa de manera proactiva las cuentas para ver si son suplantación de otros usuarios. En vez, añadió, los esfuerzos de la compañía se enfocan en identificar y suspender cuentas que violan las políticas de correo basura de Twitter. Binns dijo que en diciembre, por ejemplo, la compañía identificó en promedio unas 6,4 millones de cuentas sospechosas por semana.Todas las cuentas falsas que le mostró el Times está en violación de las políticas antispam de Twitter y fueron eliminadas, dijo Binns. Nos tomamos muy en serio la acción de suspender una cuenta en la plataforma, dijo. Al mismo tiempo, queremos combatir el spam de manera agresiva en la plataforma.Sin embargo, Twitter no ha impuesto salvaguardias aparentemente sencillas que ayudarían a coartar a los fabricantes de bots, como requerir que quien se registre para una cuenta nueva haga una prueba contra spam, como la que hacen muchos sitios comerciales. Como tal, Twitter ahora alberga una cantidad enorme de cuentas inactivas que incluyen cuentas probablemente controladas por fabricantes de bots.Antiguos empleados de la red social dijeron que el equipo de seguridad se enfocó por muchos años más bien en posibles casos de abuso contra usuarios, como el contenido racista y misógino, y en campañas antiacoso. Dijeron que fue hasta hace poco, entre revelaciones como el uso de bots por parte de hackers vinculados al gobierno ruso para promover noticias basura, que Twitter se enfocó más en deshacerse de las cuentas falsas.Leslie Miley, ingeniera que trabajó en la unidad de seguridad de la empresa y de sus usuarios hasta finales de 2015, dijo: Twitter, como red social, fue desarrollada prácticamente sin prever rendición de cuentas.Algunos críticos creen que hay un incentivo de negocios para Twitter en contra de reprimir más agresivamente a los bots. Durante los últimos dos años, la empresa ha batallado para generar el crecimiento de usuarios que han tenido rivales como Facebook o Snapchat e investigadores externos han puesto en tela de duda los estimados de la compañía sobre cuántos de sus usuarios activos son en realidad bots.Por Richard Harris y Danny DeBeliusTrabajamos con ecosistemas no regulados y cerrados por completo que no reportan estas cosas. Tienen un incentivo perverso para dejar que pase esto, dijo Essaid, el experto en ciberseguridad. Quieren controlar esto hasta el punto en el que no sea tan obvio que existe pero que [Twitter] siga sacando dinero de ello.En enero, después de unos dos años de promover cientos de cuentas de clientes de Devumi, la Jessica Rychly falsa por fin fue identificada por los algoritmos de seguridad de Twitter y la cuenta fue suspendida.Sin embargo, la verdadera Rychly ya planea salirse para siempre de esa red social.Probablemente voy a borrar mi cuenta de Twitter, dijo.Contribuyeron al reportaje Manuela Andreoni, Jeremy Ashkenas, Laurent Bastien Corbeil, Nic Dias, Elise Hansen, Michael Keller, Manuel Villa y Felipe Villamor. Colaboraron con investigación Susan C. Beachy, Doris Burke y Alain Delaquérière.Diseño y desarrollo por Danny DeBelius y Richard Harris. Dirección artística por Antonio De Luca y Jason Fujikuni. Fotos usadas en la ilustración: Ireland, Rodin Eckenroth/Getty Images; Lewis, D Dipasupil/FilmMagic; Leguizamo, Amanda Edwards/WireImage, vía Getty Images; Ingle, Morgan Rachel Levy para The New York TimesSept. 27, 2017Sept. 7, 2017Diseño y desarrollo por Danny DeBelius y Richard Harris. Dirección artística por Antonio De Luca y Jason Fujikuni. Fotos usadas en la ilustración: Ireland, Rodin Eckenroth/Getty Images; Lewis, D Dipasupil/FilmMagic; Leguizamo, Amanda Edwards/WireImage, vía Getty Images; Ingle, Morgan Rachel Levy para The New York TimesAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Margaret RenklNASHVILLE — No one was shocked last week when SouthComm Inc., a Nashville-based media company, announced it was selling The Nashville Scene, its flagship alternative newsweekly. SouthComm had already sold or was in the process of selling its newspapers in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Tampa and Washington. And alt-weeklies around the country have been declining for years.Gone are The Baltimore City Paper, The Philadelphia City Paper, The Boston Phoenix. Last year, here in Tennessee, The Knoxville Mercury shut down. Also last year, Atlantas Creative Loafing laid off all but one person on the entire editorial staff. Even The Village Voice, the alt-weekly that invented alt-weeklies, now survives only online.Seeing The Scene on the auction block might not be surprising, but its still heartbreaking. In a shortsighted effort to make the paper more appealing to buyers, SouthComm laid off some passionate, immensely talented journalists and seriously overburdened those who remained. Some of them are people I know because I once wrote for The Scene, and I have spent more than 20 years watching the difference this newspaper has made to my city.In 1996, the summer my second child was born, I sent an envelope full of essays to The Nashville Scene. I was not a journalist — I was an English teacher on maternity leave — but the managing editor offered me a weekly column anyway. In time, I moved on to writing book reviews and then to editing them. In 2009, The Scenes owners killed the book page in a round of cost cutting, but within months I was back, in a way: I had gone on to edit a new nonprofit website designed to compensate for dwindling book coverage in newspapers. The site, an initiative of Humanities Tennessee, offers local literary news to state media outlets at no charge in exchange for byline credit and a link online. The first paper to sign up for our content was The Nashville Scene. It is still our partner today.In its early days, The Scene, like other alt-weeklies of the time, played the role of gadfly. Its job was to entertain, to shock, to peek into the quirky corners of the community and celebrate the oddball geniuses living here. It was a place where young journalists (and not-so-young English teachers) could learn their trade. Nonfiction writers as diverse as Katherine Boo, David Carr, Ta-Nehisi Coates, Joe Klein and Susan Orlean got their start at alt-weeklies.When classified ads — the bread and butter of the newspaper business — migrated online, newspapers big and small suffered. In towns like Nashville, midsize cities too small to sustain more than one daily paper, alt-weeklies morphed from journalisms irreverent younger siblings into necessary institutions. They covered news the shrinking dailies no longer touched, and they served as urgent competitors in areas where the dailies still invested resources, such as politics.In 1998, Nashvilles Gannett-owned morning daily, The Tennessean, bought the evening daily, the 122-year-old Nashville Banner, and then promptly shut it down. But reporters for The Scene were still right there, still holding politicians accountable and covering local arts in the kind of depth the daily never even aspired to.A lot of the work that alt-weeklies do now fills in the gaps created by understaffed dailies, said the former Scene editor Steve Cavendish. Its investigative work. Its cultural work. Theres nobody else writing culture in this city. Theres nobody else writing food in this city. Theres nobody else writing arts in this city. The only place you see that coverage, really, is in The Scene.In 2017, The Scene published in-depth cover stories on Those Darlins singer Jessi Zazu, who died in September at age 28 of cervical cancer; Cyrus Wilson, an inmate convicted of murder on the basis of testimony that has since been recanted; Nashvilles prospects for landing a Major League Soccer franchise (spoiler alert: We got it); a rape and sexual harassment lawsuit filed by the former Fox News commentator Scottie Nell Hughes; refugees living in Nashville; and a brilliant explanation for Nashvilles seemingly inexplicable invasion of drunk bridesmaids. Plus 46 others. And thats not counting the reporting and analysis to be found in the rest of the paper, or on The Scenes several blogs.Equally important is what alt-weeklies bring to political reporting. The history of Southern politics is a history of cronyism, and the situation is hardly better now — and hardly unique to the South. Too often, public servants answer to special interests like the N.R.A. and the Koch brothers out of fear of facing well-funded primary challengers they have little chance of beating. In statehouses and city halls across the country, the only thing standing between an oligarchy and a true republic is often a local newspaper reporter working on an ancient laptop to shore up the bulwark of truth.Bill Haslam, Tennessees Republican governor, is serving his final year in office. In a speech last week to the Tennessee Press Association, he acknowledged the risks of insufficiently funded news organizations: This is going to be a really important political year. This is a real governors race. We have a Senate race thats really important, not just for the state but the country, and a number of congressional seats in play. My fear is that all of these wont be covered in the detail they traditionally have.As more and more national advertising moves to internet giants like Google and Facebook, daily newspapers will continue to contract. Last week, eight months after taking home a Pulitzer Prize in journalism, the daily Charleston Gazette-Mail filed for bankruptcy. Employees at East Bay Times, a Pulitzer Prize-winning daily in Northern California, are taking buyouts and facing layoffs.In this climate, the importance of vibrant community alt-weeklies will continue to grow. While The Scene faces economic challenges, it is still a profitable newspaper. But it desperately needs a buyer willing to invest in its future — and, when necessary, to look beyond the quarterly bottom line to what the newspaper brings to this community.The financial pressures on these papers are going to require a different kind of owner, Mr. Cavendish said in an interview. There needs to be a new level of civic ownership that doesnt require a pound of flesh to be taken out every quarter, or every year.The owners of a local newspaper need to understand that they have not invested in an engine for quarter-over-quarter shareholder profit. They have entered into a crucial compact with their fellow citizens. They have invested in the city itself.In sanctioning modest profits and sometimes fitful growth, the new owners of The Scene will earn the privilege of uncovering conflicts of interest that public servants would prefer to keep hidden, demanding access to public records the public doesnt yet know are theirs, helping people who are enduring injustice, and championing people who are quietly making a difference.Owning a local newspaper is not the way to wealth. Its the way to something far more important than wealth. In this age of alternative truth, the real news, for all its deadline-driven mistakes, is our best hope for surviving the now-daily challenges to American democracy.The Nashville Scene is for sale. Someone who cares about the fate of this city — and this country — should buy it.Margaret Renkl is a contributing opinion writer and the editor of Chapter 16, a publication of Humanities Tennessee.OpinionMargaret RenklAdvertisementBy TIM HERRERAFEB. 5, 2018
Welcome to the Smarter Living newsletter. The editor, Tim Herrera, emails readers with tips and advice for living a better, more fulfilling life. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.One of my favorite ideas to mull over is how busy we are — or, rather, how busy we think we are. (The first Smarter Living newsletter was dedicated solely to that concept.)A big reason we think were so busy is that we fill our days with things we dont really care about or want to do. We dole out an easy yes to things instead of working through a potentially difficult no, and the result is an overcommitment of our time and energy to things that arent important to us. (Read more: Why you should learn to say no more often.)Im as guilty of this as anyone! My stock response to Hows it going? is always Ugh, so busy today. Often thats true in a genuine way, but just as often its because Im committed to things or ideas Im not passionate about.AdvertisementCall it essentialism, KonMari or any other name thats been attached to this idea, but what were talking about is this: Figure out whats core to your identity, and follow only those pursuits.AdvertisementWhat does that mean for you? Let me know on Twitter and email.In between all of your self-reflection, here are a few other things to think about or do this week:The best thing I read last week was this post about things we should have learned in school but never did. Its all worth reading, but the section on self-acceptance is deeply resonant: Its amazing how much energy and effort we all put into trying to be perceived as cool. We deliberately curate our Instagram pictures and Facebook status updates. Were cautious about what we choose to reveal out of fear of being labeled uncool. But the effort we put into being cool, to sanding off our rough edges can be truly exhausting.Yes, you should still get one, even though were deep into flu season. (Its so, so bad this year.)We are still seeing increases this week in hospitalizations and influenza-like illness, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Friday. We have seen 10 consecutive weeks of elevated influenza activity so far, and our average flu season duration is between 11-20 weeks. So, there may be many weeks left for this season.A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.We have not hit our peak yet, unfortunately, Kristen Nordlund, a C.D.C. spokeswoman, told CNN. Really, the bottom line is, there is still likely many more weeks to go.Still not convinced you need one? Read this, and know that getting a shot isnt just about you.You know what I finished last week? My income taxes! My previous record for earliest filing date was April 13, so Im feeling pretty good about it. If youre a chronic late-filer like me, set aside an hour after work this week, pick up your favorite snack to munch on, and just get it done. Heres a good primer on getting started. Make April 17 one less deadline youll have to stress over this year.Have a great week!— TimThe 6 Steps to Turning Setbacks Into Advantages People experience six distinct stages of turning adversity into growth. These stages apply to organizations, families, communities and individuals.The 7-Day Financial Tuneup Tidy your finances, optimize your spending and plan for the long term.Its Tax Time: What to Remember Most provisions of the new tax law wont affect this years returns, with the exception of a temporary change broadening the deduction for medical expenses.AdvertisementThe Mysterious Interior World of Exercise What happens inside our bodies when we work out.How Do I Avoid Catching Cold or Flu From My Sick Partner? Its harder to protect yourself when the sick person is living inside your house. But certain measures may help.Keep Your Head Up: How Smartphone Addiction Kills Manners and Moods Text neck is becoming a medical issue suffered by countless people, and the way we hang our heads has other health risks, too.To kick off resolutions month in this newsletter, Ive invited Abby Langer, a registered dietitian and friend of SL, to share some tips about staying strong if your resolution this year is to eat healthier.SimplifyIf youve resolved to do a complete diet overhaul and are getting overwhelmed, simplify your plan by choosing one simple goal. For example, resolving to eat five servings of vegetables a day can be easier and more sustainable than changing your entire diet. Once your goal becomes habit, build on it from there.Acknowledge the winsWhat matters is that youre moving in the right direction. Only manage to bring your lunch to work once a week instead of four times? Youre good! As long as youre making progress with your resolution, however small, consider it a win: Flexibility is not failure.Enlist helpWhether its outsourcing some of your meals to a delivery service, joining a healthy-lunch club at work, or asking for support from like-minded friends, you dont have to do this alone. Theres no shame at all in finding shortcuts or asking for help.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
California Today By                     
 THOMAS FULLER and
 

 CONOR DOUGHERTY
 
FEB. 5, 2018
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Todays introduction comes from Conor Dougherty, who reports on economics from the Bay Area.Last week Gov. Jerry Browns Office of Housing and Community Development released a much-anticipated list of cities that will be subject to a new streamlining law that will essentially force those places to approve new housing, especially low-income housing, by removing the city governments ability to block certain kinds of building permits.The report showed that pretty much all California cities — and especially those in the coastal job centers around San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego — havent built nearly as much low and moderately priced housing as they were supposed to. That wasnt very surprising, given that California is in a dire housing crisis and has the highest real estate costs in the country.What was surprising, even shocking, was the city that topped the very short list of places that are meeting their goal of affordable new residences: Beverly Hills. How could that be? Are Beverly Hillss residents feeling guilty about income inequality and mass building low-income housing as a result?AdvertisementPerhaps not surprisingly, Beverly Hillss apparently stellar record at building housing for poor people has more to do with politics and funny math than a sudden building boom.AdvertisementThe progress report released last week is based on a series of housing goals that are decided by a regional body of governments. Over the eight-year period covered by the goals, Beverly Hills was required to build a total of three housing units: One very-low income housing unit, one low-income housing unit, and one moderately priced housing unit. In fairness, the wealthy Los Angeles County city far exceeded its numbers, at least on a percentage basis, by issuing permits for a total of nine low- and moderate-income housing units.The city was not required to build any high-income housing units, since it already has a lot of them. Nevertheless, it blew its goal of zero out of the water, and issued 75 new permits for high-income housing.Scott Wiener, the San Francisco senator who wrote the streamlining bill on which the recent report was based, said in an interview that numbers like those reported by Beverly Hills are why he is working on a new bill that would try to neutralize the role of politics in housing production by tying future state housing goals to economic measures like job growth. It would also carry forward past housing deficits so that cities that dont build will lose further control over local housing decisions as time goes on.Its absurd and we see this around the state where communities that are whiter and more affluent are able to push down their numbers and essentially opt out of new housing, he said.The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• A group of Silicon Valley technologists who were early employees at Facebook and Google, alarmed over the ill effects of social networks and smartphones, are banding together to challenge the companies they helped build. [The New York Times]• Yes, both of Californias senators are women. But in an election year rocked by sexual harassment scandals and the emergence of the #MeToo movement, women in California politics are still running at the margins. The phenomenon is especially striking in this heavily Democratic state, where no woman has ever held the governorship and women account for only 26 of the 120 state legislators. [Politico]Advertisement• One reason progressive supervisors gave for terminating London Breed as San Franciscos acting mayor was that she was too close to tech billionaires like Ron Conway — so its interesting to note that Ms. Breeds replacement, Mark Farrell, has counted Mr. Conway as an investor in his venture capital firm since 2011. [San Francisco Chronicle]• The Republican candidate for governor Travis Allen and three other sitting lawmakers were among those named in an unprecedented release of sexual harassment investigation records disclosed Friday by California legislative leaders. [Sacramento Bee]• Extended leave at twice the pay: Hundreds of Los Angeles police officers and firefighters have benefited from a program that doled out $1.6 billion in extra pension payments. [Los Angeles Times]• Santa Rosa city fire investigators have determined that PG&E power lines buffeted by heavy winds the night of Oct. 8 ignited at least two small fires in city neighborhoods. The findings were the first public reports by government authorities into what caused some of the dozens of blazes that erupted that night and became the deadliest and most destructive wildfires in California history. [Press Democrat]• New witness statements have re-energized the investigation into the drowning of Natalie Wood. The Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department said, She got in the water somehow, and I dont think she got in the water by herself. [The New York Times]• Monterey County allows industrial marijuana grows but marijuana farmers in Big Sur, the birthplace of Big Sur Holy Weed, are getting shut out of the business. The countys new marijuana ordinance doesnt allow rural cannabis growing. [Mercury News]• The residents of Blythe, a town on the Arizona-California border, were ambivalent about growing cannabis. But now its being seen as a way to rejuvenate the desert towns economy. Its here. We might as well make some money on it. [Desert Sun]Coming up this week:• Amid the rash of smash-and-grab car thefts in the Bay Area the Alameda City Council will vote Tuesday on a plan to scan the license plate of every vehicle that enters the city from Oakland. The license plate recognition system would cost $500,000.Advertisement• The AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am runs this week and has attracted golfs top names. Weather forecast for the Monterey Peninsula: sunny and 70.• The L.A. Opera is staging Leonard Bernsteins adaptation of Candide through Feb. 18.In 1875, a visitor to Yosemite recorded his predicament in a guest registry. Cant get out of Yosemite on account of a sick horse, he wrote, adding ruefully: Yosemite Valley is a lovely place in which to be incarcerated.Thats a quaint picture of a park that has exploded in popularity in recent years. The park received more than 5 million visitors in 2016.And although February is usually one of the slowest months, the spectacular sunsets that occur during the last two weeks of the month at Horsetail Fall have become a major draw. The fading sunlight colors the ribbon of water that descend from El Capitan a fiery red and orange.To help mitigate the traffic jams this year the National Park Service is requiring visitors who want to drive to that section of the park to reserve a spot. Nature now requires reservations, grumbled The San Francisco Chronicle.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NATHANIEL POPPERFEB. 5, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — You did not have to be a technophobe to worry that the virtual-currency boom of the past year papered over plenty of problems.The scale of those problems is starting to become clear as digital tokens have slid more than 50 percent in value from their peaks in early January, with steep drops on Monday pushing the value of Bitcoin specifically below $7,000.Hackers draining funds from online exchanges. Ponzi schemes. Government regulators unable to keep up with the rise of so-called cryptocurrencies. Signs of trouble have appeared at nearly every level of the industry, from the biggest exchanges to the news sites and chat rooms where the investment frenzy has been discussed.On Tuesday, the leaders of the two main regulatory agencies in the United States that oversee the technology, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, are to testify before the Senate banking committee about their efforts to police virtual currency markets. In the past two weeks, both have brought major cases, but people in the young industry said regulators had barely made a dent.AdvertisementSome virtual currency enthusiasts argue that the problems are no different from what has happened in other booms, like the internet bubble of the 1990s. But even true believers say the design of virtual currencies — meant to cut out middlemen and government authorities — has made bad behavior more prevalent amid this particular bubble.AdvertisementCryptocurrencies are almost a perfect vehicle for scams, said Kevin Werbach, a professor at University of Pennsylvanias Wharton School. The combination of credulous buyers and low barriers for scammers were bound to lead to a high level of fraud, if and when the money involved got large. The fact that the money got huge almost overnight, before there were good regulatory or even self-regulatory models in place, made the problem acute.The fall from the peaks of early January has been dizzying. The value of all outstanding virtual currencies has been cut by more than half, down over $400 billion as of Monday, according to the website Coinmarketcap.com.In January, the heads of the main regulators wrote  in The Wall Street Journal that the situation presented an unprecedented challenge. These markets are new, evolving and international, Jay Clayton, the Securities and Exchange Commissions chairman, and J. Christopher Giancarlo, his counterpart at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, wrote. As such they require us to be nimble and forward-looking.Government agencies in the United States have shut down a few notable frauds. Early last month, securities regulators in Texas and North Carolina issued cease-and-desist orders to BitConnect, an operation that had grown to be worth $3 billion.But those moves only came after BitConnect had operated openly for months, collecting hundreds of millions of dollars from people around the world despite being labeled a Ponzi scheme by many prominent people in the virtual currency industry. BitConnect offered tokens on a decentralized network, similar to Bitcoin, but promised regular payouts to coin holders.In January, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shut down  My Big Coin, a purported swindle that had attracted $6 million.But regulators have not gotten near most of the brazen schemes that have popped up in the past year, many of which had been attacked by hackers first, or simply shut down by their operators after money had been raised.AdvertisementA new virtual currency, Proof of Weak Hands Coin, whose creators referred to it as a Ponzi scheme on Twitter and use a pyramid as a website logo, raised $800,000 before hackers got into its systems last week and drained its funds. Another pyramid scheme, MMM, which was shut down in an earlier incarnation by the Russian government, has been revived thanks to the popularity of Bitcoin and is operating openly, with particular success in Africa.One challenge facing regulators is that it is unclear how much of the deceptive activity they can legally control.Some online groups openly try to manipulate the prices of digital tokens in what are known as pump-and-dump schemes. Similar schemes involving stocks are illegal, but people operating the groups recently told BuzzFeed that they did not think the same rules applied to virtual currencies.Many schemes have been able to expand quickly because they do not use bank accounts and therefore do not have to win approval from established institutions. Instead, they are able to use virtual currency wallets without any approvals. And virtual currency transactions cannot be reversed like normal bank or even PayPal transfers.With regulators slow to crack down, the private sector has taken on a more important role. Facebook announced last week that it would no longer allow advertisements for virtual currency projects. On Friday, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America said they would bar customers from using credit cards to purchase virtual currencies; Citigroup followed suit on Monday.For investors, some of what has caused the most concern are well-intentioned businesses set up in a hurry with little outside oversight or time to work out kinks.Coincheck, which until last month was one of the largest exchanges in Japan, announced on Jan. 26 that it had lost nearly half a billion dollars of a virtual currency known as NEM, in what appeared to be the largest hack to hit the industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Traders have been particularly worried about the largest Bitcoin exchange in the world, Bitfinex, an unregulated operation that has provided few details about its operations, raising concerns about whether it is insolvent or involved in price manipulation.In the United States, even the most widely used virtual currency company, Coinbase, has struggled to keep up with demand, shutting down trading for hours at particularly important moments, and attracting widespread complaints about its customer service.AdvertisementBut the biggest number of incidents have cropped up around so-called initial coin offerings, in which entrepreneurs sell custom virtual currencies to investors to raise money for software they are building. About 890 projects raised over $6 billion last year, a 6,000 percent increase over the year before, according to Icodata.io, which tracks the offerings.The $240 million raised through one of the most successful initial coin offerings last year, Tezos, is already frozen in a dispute between the founders of the project and the board they created in Switzerland.Even established companies like Kodak have ended up chasing the riches without doing proper due diligence. The company delayed its own initial coin offering after it was revealed that the people assisting the venture had problematic histories and little relevant experience.Most of the newer virtual currency projects borrow their basic design from Bitcoin, which uses a network of computers to maintain its records so that no central government or authority is needed.That design has allowed Bitcoin and other virtual currencies to grow as fast as they have with no regard for international borders, attracting followers from Zimbabwe to South Korea. It has also allowed some of the most talked-about uses of the technology, helping people escape hyperinflation in Venezuela or transfer money across borders with lower fees. But it has also allowed in a lot of bad actors.It is a perfect storm for the kind of scammy activity we are seeing, and its not obvious to me how that is easily removed, said Fred Wilson, a partner at the venture capital firm Union Square Venture and one of the earliest advocates of Bitcoin in Silicon Valley. Regulation, ideally prudent and informed regulation, can help. But we may also need to have a big correction to really clean things up.A version of this article appears in print on February 6, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Plunge in Value Makes the Frauds and Flaws in Virtual Currencies Harder to Ignore.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      Por NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, 
    
GABRIEL J.X. DANCE, 
    
RICH HARRIS and 
    
MARK HANSEN

JAN. 27, 2018

Todos quieren ser populares en internet. Algunos incluso pagan por ello. Descubre el mercado negro de las redes sociales.


              Todos quieren ser populares en internet.Algunos incluso pagan por ello.Descubre el mercado negro de las redes sociales.
            


                Por NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, GABRIEL J.X. DANCE, RICHARD HARRIS and MARK HANSEN



  
    Ilustración fotográfica por Adam Ferriss
  


      Por NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, GABRIEL J.X. DANCE, RICHARD HARRIS and MARK HANSEN


La verdadera Jessica Rychly es una adolescente de Minnesota que tiene una amplia sonrisa y el cabello ondulado. Le gusta leer y escuchar las canciones del rapero Post Malone. Cuando usa Facebook o Twitter, a veces comenta sobre las cosas que la aburren o hace bromas con sus amigos. Ocasionalmente, como muchos adolescentes y jóvenes, publica una selfi.Pero en Twitter existe una versión de Jessica que ninguno de sus amigos o familiares podría reconocer. Aunque las dos cuentas comparten su nombre, retrato y la misma biografía de una sola línea (Tengo problemas), la otra Jessica ha promocionado cuentas de inversiones inmobiliarias canadienses, criptomonedas y una estación de radio en Ghana. La cuenta falsa siguió o retuiteó cuentas en árabe e indonesio, idiomas que Jessica no habla. Mientras ella tenía 17 años y estaba en el último año del colegio, su contraparte falsa frecuentemente promovía pornografía gráfica, al retuitear cuentas como Squirtamania y Porno Dan.Todas esas cuentas pertenecen a clientes de una oscura empresa estadounidense llamada Devumi que ha recaudado millones de dólares en el mercado global del fraude en las redes sociales. Devumi vende seguidores de Twitter y retuits a celebridades, negocios y cualquier persona que quiera ser más popular o ejercer influencia en internet. Usando un conjunto de al menos 3,5 millones de cuentas automatizadas —cada una de ellas ha sido vendida muchas veces— la compañía le ha proporcionado a sus clientes más de 200 millones de seguidores en Twitter, según reveló una investigación de The New York Times.Las cuentas que más se parecen a las personas reales, como la de Rychly, muestran el patrón de una especie de robo de identidad social a gran escala. Al menos 55.000 cuentas de Devumi usan los nombres, fotos de perfil, lugares de origen y otros detalles personales de usuarios reales de Twitter, incluidos menores de edad, según un análisis de datos realizado por el Times.No quiero que mi foto esté relacionada a esa cuenta, ni mi nombre, dijo Rychly, quien ahora tiene 19 años. No puedo creer que alguien pague por eso. Es simplemente horrible.Estas cuentas son monedas falsas en la floreciente economía de la influencia en internet, que toca prácticamente cualquier industria en la que una audiencia masiva —o la ilusión de que la hay— pueda ser monetizada. En la actualidad las cuentas falsas que han sido creadas por gobiernos, delincuentes y empresarios infestan las redes sociales. Según algunos cálculos, hasta 48 millones de los usuarios activos de Twitter, casi el 15 por ciento, son cuentas automatizadas diseñadas para simular ser personas reales, aunque la compañía afirma que ese número es mucho menor.En noviembre, Facebook reveló a sus inversores que tenía al menos el doble de usuarios falsos que los estimados anteriormente, lo que indica que existen unas 60 millones de cuentas automatizadas en la plataforma de medios sociales más grande del mundo. Estas cuentas falsas, conocidas como bots, pueden ayudar a influenciar a las audiencias publicitarias y replantear los debates políticos. Pueden afectar negocios y arruinar reputaciones. Sin embargo, desde el punto de vista legal, su creación y venta están en una zona gris.La continua viabilidad de cuentas fraudulentas e interacciones en las plataformas de redes sociales, y la profesionalización de estos servicios fraudulentos, es muestra de que todavía hay mucho trabajo por hacer, dijo el senador demócrata de Virginia Mark Warner, quien también es miembro del Comité de Inteligencia del Senado de Estados Unidos, que ha estado investigando la propagación de cuentas falsas en Facebook, Twitter y otras plataformas.A pesar de las crecientes críticas a las compañías de medios sociales y el mayor escrutinio de los funcionarios electos, el comercio de seguidores falsos sigue siendo opaco en gran medida. Si bien Twitter y otras plataformas prohíben comprar seguidores, Devumi y docenas de otros sitios los venden abiertamente. Y las compañías de redes sociales, cuyo valor de mercado está estrechamente vinculado al número de personas que usan sus servicios, establecen sus propias reglas para detectar y eliminar cuentas falsas.El fundador de Devumi, German Calas, negó que su compañía vendiera seguidores falsos y dijo que no sabía nada sobre las identidades sociales robadas a los usuarios reales. Las acusaciones son falsas y no tenemos conocimiento de ninguna de esas actividades, afirmó Calas en un intercambio de correos electrónicos en noviembre.The New York Times revisó los registros comerciales y judiciales que evidencian que Devumi tiene más de 200.000 clientes, incluyendo estrellas de reality shows, atletas profesionales, comediantes, oradores de TED, pastores y modelos. En la mayoría de los casos, según muestran los registros, esos clientes compraron sus propios seguidores. En otros, sus empleados, agentes, compañías de relaciones públicas, familiares o amigos hicieron la compra. Por solo unos centavos de dólar por cada uno, a veces incluso por menos, Devumi ofrece seguidores de Twitter, visitas en YouTube, reproducciones en SoundCloud y recomendaciones en LinkedIn.El actor John Leguizamo tiene seguidores de Devumi. También los tienen Michael Dell, el multimillonario de la informática, y Ray Lewis, el comentarista de fútbol americano y antiguo jugador de los Ravens de Baltimore. Kathy Ireland, quien inició su carrera como modelo y hoy preside un imperio de licencias de 500 millones de dólares, tiene cientos de miles de seguidores falsos de Devumi, al igual que Akbar Gbajabiamila, el presentador del programa American Ninja Warrior. Incluso una integrante de la junta de Twitter, Martha Lane Fox, tiene algunos de esos seguidores.En momentos en que Facebook, Twitter y Google se enfrentan a una epidemia de manipulación política y noticias falsas, los seguidores falsos de Devumi fungen como la infantería de las batallas políticas en línea. Los clientes de esa empresa incluyen tanto a partidarios acérrimos de Donald Trump como a comentaristas liberales y conservadores de la televisión estadounidense.Los productos de Devumi también atienden las necesidades de políticos y gobiernos del resto del mundo. Un editor de Xinhua, la agencia noticiosa china, le pagó a la compañía estadounidense para conseguir cientos de miles de seguidores y retuits en Twitter, una plataforma que está prohibida por el gobierno chino pero que es vista como un foro para la propaganda al exterior. El año pasado, un asesor del presidente ecuatoriano Lenín Moreno adquirió decenas de miles de seguidores y de retuits para las cuentas de la campaña electoral de Moreno.Kristin Binns, una portavoz de Twitter, dijo que la empresa no suele suspender a usuarios bajo sospecha de adquirir bots, en parte porque es difícil saber quién es el responsable de una compra determinada. Twitter no quiso revelar si un muestreo de cuentas falsas proporcionado por el Times —cuentas hechas a partir de la información de usuarios reales— violaban las políticas de la empresa en contra de la suplantación de identidad.Seguimos luchando para responder a cualquier automatización maliciosa en nuestra plataforma, así como cuentas falsas o de spam, dijo Binns.A diferencia de algunas empresas de redes sociales, Twitter no exige que sus cuentas estén vinculadas a una persona real. También permite un mayor acceso automatizado a su plataforma que otras compañías, lo que facilita la creación y el control de grandes cantidades de cuentas.Por Richard Harris y Danny DeBeliusLas redes sociales son un mundo virtual en el que la mitad son bots y el resto es gente real, dijo Rami Essaid, fundador de Distil Networks, una empresa de ciberseguridad que se especializa en erradicar redes de bots. No puedes aceptar sin más lo que dice un tuit. Y no todo es lo que parece.Resulta que eso incluye a Devumi.El año pasado, tres mil millones de personas iniciaron sesión en redes como Facebook, WhatsApp o la china Sina Weibo. El anhelo colectivo del mundo por establecer una conexión no solo ha cambiado la composición de la lista de las 500 empresas con mayor valuación de Fortune y reformulado el mundo de la publicidad, sino que ha creado un nuevo indicador de estatus: la cantidad de personas que te siguen, te dan me gusta o te agregan como amigo. Para algunos artistas o empresarios, ese estatus virtual es un factor de influencia en el mundo real. Los conteos de seguidores en redes sociales pueden determinar quiénes los contratan, cuánto les pagan por patrocinios o compromisos e, incluso, cómo los clientes potenciales evalúan sus productos o negocios.Una cantidad alta de seguidores también es clave para los influenciadores que aspiran a marcar tendencia o para las estrellas de YouTube a quienes las empresas les dan miles de millones de dólares al año para patrocinar sus productos. Mientras más alcance tengan esas personalidades, más dinero ganan. De acuerdo con datos de Captiv8, una empresa que vincula a los influenciadores con las marcas, alguien con 100.000 seguidores puede ganar hasta 2000 dólares por un solo tuit promocionado, mientras que alguien con un millón de seguidores podría cobrar hasta 20.000 dólares.La fama genuina a veces conlleva una influencia real en redes sociales, con los fanáticos que siguen a sus estrellas de cine favoritas, a cocineros célebres y modelos. Pero también hay atajos disponibles: en sitios como Social Envy y DIYLikes.com tan solo se requiere dar un número de tarjeta para comprar un ejército de seguidores en cualquier plataforma social en línea.Ves a un número de seguidores más alto o una mayor cantidad de retuits y supones que esa persona es importante o que a ese tuit le fue bien, dijo Rand Fishkin, fundador de Moz, compañía que desarrolla software de optimización y posicionamiento en motores de búsquedas. Como resultado, es más probable que tú también lo amplifiques, lo compartas o que sigas a esa persona.Twitter y Facebook pueden ser influenciadas de manera similar. Las plataformas sociales quieren recomendarte cosas y dicen: ¿Lo que estamos recomendando es popular?, dijo Julian Tempelsman, cofundador de Smyte, firma de ciberseguridad que ayuda a empresas a combatir el fraude y abuso en línea y a los bots. La cantidad de seguidores es uno de los factores que toman en cuenta.Si haces una búsqueda en Google sobre cómo conseguir más seguidores, Devumi estará entre los principales resultados. Su sitio se nota pulido y destaca sus oficinas en Manhattan, testimonios de clientes y una garantía de reembolso. Lo mejor de todo, según promete Devumi, es que los productos de la empresa tienen el visto bueno de la plataforma para la cual venden seguidores. Solo utilizamos técnicas de promoción que han sido aprobadas por Twitter para que nunca corras el riesgo de que suspendan o penalicen tu cuenta, asegura.Para entender mejor el negocio de Devumi, contratamos sus servicios. En abril, el Times creó una cuenta de prueba en Twitter y le pagó a Devumi 225 dólares por 25.000 seguidores; alrededor de un centavo de dólar por cada uno. Como se promete, los primeros 10.000 parecían ser personas reales. Tenían fotografías y nombres completos, la ciudad en la que se encontraban y biografías que parecían ser auténticas. Una cuenta se asemejaba a la de Rychly, la joven de Minnesota.Pero vistas más de cerca había detalles extraños. Los nombres de las cuentas tenían letras de más o usaban guion bajo o sustituían letras tan similares que el cambio era casi imperceptible, como una ele minúscula en vez de una i mayúscula.Por Richard Harris y Danny DeBeliusLos siguientes 15.000 seguidores de Devumi eran más claramente sospechosos: no tenían imágenes de perfil y en vez de nombres tenían una mezcla de letras, números y fragmentos de palabras.En agosto, un reportero del Times le envió un correo a Calas para pedirle que contestara algunas preguntas sobre Devumi; Calas no respondió al correo. Twitter prohíbe vender o comprar seguidores o retuits mientras que Devumi le promete a su clientela discreción absoluta. Tu información siempre se mantiene confidencial dice el sitio web de la empresa. Nuestros seguidores se ven igual que otros seguidores y siempre llegan de manera natural. La única manera en la que alguien va a saber es si le dices.Pero los registros de la empresa revisados por el Times revelan mucho de lo que Devumi y sus clientes prefieren ocultar.La mayoría de los compradores mejor conocidos de Devumi venden productos, servicios o a sí mismos en las redes. En entrevistas dieron explicaciones variadas: compraron a los seguidores porque tenían curiosidad sobre cómo funcionaba o se sintieron presionados para tener un número de seguidores más altos para ellos mismos o para sus clientes. Todos lo hacen, dijo la actriz Deirdre Lovejoy, clienta de Devumi.Aunque algunos dijeron que creían que Devumi les daba fanáticos potenciales o clientes reales, otros admitieron que sabían o sospechaban que las cuentas eran falsas. Varios dijeron arrepentirse de haber hecho la compra.Es un fraude, dijo James Cracknell, remador británico y medallista de oro olímpico que le compró 50.000 seguidores a Devumi. La gente que juzga según cuántos me gusta o cuántos seguidores… no es algo saludable.Kathy Ireland tiene más de un millón de seguidores en Twitter, que usa frecuentemente para promocionar empresas con las que tiene acuerdos de patrocinio. Pero en enero del año pasado Ireland solo tenía unos 160.000 seguidores. El mes siguiente, un empleado de su agencia de licencias de marca, Sterling/Winters, gastó unos 2000 dólares para conseguir 300.000 seguidores más, de acuerdo con los registros de Devumi. El empleado después hizo más adquisiciones, según reconoció en una entrevista. Un análisis del Times halló que la mayoría de los seguidores de Ireland parecen ser bots.Una portavoz dijo que ese empleado actuó sin la autorización de Ireland y que había sido suspendido después de que el Times preguntó al respecto. Estoy segura de que pensó que estaba cumpliendo con sus responsabilidades, pero no es algo que debería haber hecho, dijo la vocera, Rona Menashe.De manera similar, Lane Fox, pionera en el comercio electrónico, integrante del parlamento británico y de la junta de Twitter, culpó a un empleado que habría actuado por cuenta propia por una serie de compras a Devumi hechas a lo largo de un año. Se negó a decir qué empleado lo habría hecho.Varios clientes de Devumi o sus representantes contactados por el Times se negaron a hacer comentarios. Muchos otros no respondieron a intentos reiterados para contactarlos.Algunos negaron haber hecho compras a Devumi. Entre ellos está Ashley Knight, la asistente personal de Ray Lewis, el futbolista, cuyo correo electrónico era el listado en una orden para 250.000 seguidores. La cuenta personal de Twitter de Paul Hollywood, panadero célebre y juez de The Great British Bake-off, fue eliminada después de que el Times le envió preguntas por correo. Hollywood respondió así: La cuenta no existe.Muchas de las celebridades, líderes empresariales, astros deportivos y otros usuarios de Twitter compraron a sus seguidores directamente, de acuerdo con registros. En otros casos, la compra fue hecha por agentes, familiares, empleados y otros asociados.Por Richard Harris y Danny DeBeliusHillary Rosen, consultora en relaciones públicas y colaboradora de CNN, compró más de medio millón de seguidores falsos a Devumi en dos años. En una entrevista, dijo que esas compras fueron hechas como experimento para ver cómo funcionaba. Hizo más de una decena de adquisiciones entre 2015 y 2017, de acuerdo con los registros de Devumi.Otros clientes dijeron que se habían sentido presionados por sus empleadores para tener más seguidores. Marcus Holmlund era el encargado de redes sociales de la agencia de modelaje Wilhemina. Poco después de haber llegado al puesto, un supervisor le dijo que no estaba consiguiendo suficientes seguidores y que debía o comprarlos o encontrar otro empleo. Holmlund terminó pagando él mismo por las cuentas a Devumi antes de dejar la empresa en 2015 (una portavoz de Wilhemina se negó a hacer comentarios).Me sentí pasmado por la amenaza de ser despedido o, lo que es peor, nunca poder volver a trabajar en la industria de la moda, dijo Holmlund. Desde entonces le digo a quienes me preguntan que es un engaño.Varios clientes de Devumi reconocieron que habían comprado bots porque sus carreras dependían, en parte, de aparentar tener influencia en redes sociales. Nadie te toma en serio si no tienes una presencia notoria, dijo Jason Schenker, economista que se especializa en pronósticos económicos y que ha comprado unos 260.000 seguidores.No es de sorprenderse que Devumi también ha vendido millones de seguidores y retuits a personas en el mundo del entretenimiento que son apenas medianamente conocidos, como el actor Ryan Hurst, de la serie Sons of Anarchy. En 2016 y 2017, compró un total de 750.000 seguidores, aproximadamente tres cuartos de los que tiene ahora. El costo fue menor a 4000 dólares, de acuerdo con los registros de Devumi. (Hurst no respondió a solicitudes de comentario).La empresa también le vende bots a estrellas de reality shows, que utilizan esa fama para cobrar por hacer actos de aparición o patrocinios. Sonja Morgan, del programa The Real Housewives of New York City, usa su cuenta de Twitter impulsada por Devumi para promover su línea de moda, una aplicación para compras y un sitio web en el que vende saludos personalizados en video.Un antiguo concursante de American Idol, Clay Aiken, incluso le pagó a Devumi para hacerle eco a una queja contra Volvo. Los bots de Devumi le dieron retuit más de cinco mil veces. Ni Aiken ni Morgan respondieron a solicitudes de comentario.Más de cien personas que se describen a sí mismas como influenciadores –cuya valía en términos monetarios está aun más vinculada a la cantidad de seguidores– han comprado las cuentas falsas de Devumi. Justin Blau, un popular DJ cuyo nombre artístico es 3LAU, adquirió 50.000 seguidores y miles de retuits. En un correo electrónico, Blau dijo que un exmiembro de su equipo de administración los compró sin su aprobación.Al menos cinco personas que le han comprado seguidores a Devumi también son contratistas de HelloSociety, una agencia para influencers de la que es dueña The New York Times (una portavoz del Times dijo que la compañía intentó verificar que la audiencia de cada contratista fuera legítima y que no hicieran negocios con nadie que violara ese estándar). Lucas Peterson, periodista independiente que colabora con la sección de viajes del Times, también ha comprado seguidores de Devumi.Los influenciadores no necesitan ser ampliamente conocidos para hacerse con dinero de patrocinios. De acuerdo con un reportaje reciente en el tabloide británico The Sun, los hermanos adolescentes Arabella y Jaadn Daho ganaron 100.000 dólares trabajando con marcas como Amazon, Disney, Louis Vuitton y Nintendo. Arabella, quien tiene 14 años, tuitea con el nombre de Amazing Arabella.Las cuentas de los hermanos, según los registros de Devumi, son potenciadas por miles de retuits que compró su madre y mánager, Shadia Daho. (Quien no respondió a varios intentos de contactarla por correo y vía una empresa de relaciones públicas).Mientras Devumi vende millones de seguidores de manera directa a celebridades e influenciadores, cuenta también entre sus clientes a agencias de publicidad y relaciones públicas que compran los bots para sus propios clientes. Phil Pallen, estratega para marcas en Los Ángeles, le ofrece a sus clientes campañas de crecimiento y publicidad en redes sociales. De acuerdo con los registros de Devumi, Pallen le ha pagado varias veces a la empresa para cumplir con esas promesas. A inicios de 2014, por ejemplo, adquirió decenas de miles de seguidores para Lori Greiner, coconductora del programa Shark Tank.Al principio, Pallen negó haber adquirido esos seguidores. Después de que el Times contactó a Greiner, Pallen afirmó que había experimentado con la empresa pero que dejó de hacerlo hace mucho tiempo. Un abogado de Greiner dijo que ella le pidió que dejara de hacerlo cuando se enteró de las primeras compras. Sin embargo, los registros muestran que Pallen le compró más seguidores a Greiner en 2016.Los consultores de mercadotecnia también compran a seguidores para sí mismos, como si compraran la evidencia para respaldar su supuesta pericia. En el 2015, Jeetendr Sehdev, exprofesor de la Universidad de California del Sur que se autodenomina la autoridad líder del mundo en marcas de celebridades, comenzó a comprar cientos de miles de seguidores falsos a Devumi.No respondió a solicitudes de comentario, pero en su reciente libro éxito en ventas, The Kim Kardashian Principle: Why Shameless Sells (el principio de Kim Kardashian: por qué vende ser descarado), explicó de otra manera el alza en sus seguidores. Dijo que su seguimiento en cuenta de redes sociales se disparó porque descubrió el verdadero secreto de la influencia de las celebridades: La clave es la autenticidad.Entre los seguidores de Sehdev estaba Rychly… o, al menos, la copia de la cuenta de la joven. La cuenta falsa de Rychly, creada en 2014, fue incluida en las órdenes de compra de cientos de clientes de Devumi. Ha retuiteado a Schenker, el econimista, y a Arabella Daho, la influenciadora adolescente. La Rychly falsa terminó entre los seguidores de Hollywood, el panadero, del disc-jockey francés DJ Snake y de Ireland. (Los seguidores comprados de DJ Snake fueron adquiridos por un antiguo mánager y Standen no respondió a solicitudes de comentario).La Rychly falsa también retuiteó por lo menos cinco cuentas vinculadas al pornógrafo estadounidense Dan Leal, quien vive en Hungría y usa la cuenta @PornoDan. Leal ha comprado unos 150.000 seguidores a Devumi en los últimos años y es uno de al menos doce clientes de esa empresa que son parte de la industria del entretenimiento adulto.En un correo, Leal dijo que la compra de seguidores para su negocio le ha generado más que suficientes ganancias para compensar el gasto. Añadió que no le preocupa ser penalizado por Twitter. Un sinfín de figuras públicas, empresas, bandas musicales, etc., compran seguidores, escribió. Si Twitter tuviera que sacar a todos los que lo hacen no quedaría prácticamente ninguno de ellos.Devumi ha vendido decenas de miles de bots de alta calidad que son similares, de acuerdo con un análisis del Times. En algunos casos un solo usuario real de Twitter fue transformado en cientos de diferentes bots; cada uno una variante con cambios mínimos respecto al original.Por Richard Harris y Mark HansenLas cuentas falsas utilizaron identidades sociales de usuarios de Twitter registrados en los cincuenta estados que componen Estados Unidos y en decenas de países que eran tanto adultos como menores de edad; replicaron la información de usuarios muy activos y de quienes no habían iniciado sesión en meses o hasta en años.Sam Dodd, ahora estudiante de universidad y quien aspira a ser cineasta, creó su cuenta en su segundo año del colegio preparatorio en Maryland. Antes de graduarse ya habían sido copiados sus detalles de Twitter a una cuenta bot.Esta no tuvo actividad sino hasta el año pasado, cuando comenzó a retuitear de manera continua a clientes de Devumi.No sé por qué replicaron mi identidad; soy un estudiante universitario de 20 años, dijo Dodd. No soy alguien conocido. Pero incluso así la identidad social de Dodd tiene valor en la economía de la influencia. De acuerdo con los precios publicados en diciembre, Duvemi vendía a seguidores de alta calidad por menos de dos centavos. Si la identidad social de Dodd es vendida a unos dos mil clientes –el número promedio que siguen las cuentas bots de Devumi– esta empresa se haría con unos 30 dólares.Esas identidades sociales robadas son claves para la marca Devumi. Los bots de alta calidad son los que usualmente llegan primero a los clientes, seguidos por unos de baja calidad; como si entregaran queso parmesano rallado junto con aserrín.Algunos de los bots de alta calidad de Devumi de hecho remplazan a una cuenta inactiva –alguien que dejó de usar el servicio– con una falsa. Whitney Wolfe, asistente ejecutiva que vive en Florida, abrió una cuenta de Twitter en 2008, cuando ayudaba en la planeación de bodas. Para cuando dejó de usarla en 2014 ya había sido creada una cuenta falsa con su información personal, que ha retuiteado las publicaciones de actrices de la industria pornográfica y a varios influenciadores.Ese contenido –de mujeres en tanga y fotografías de los pechos de mujeres– no es para nada lo que quiero que se asocie a mi fe, a mi nombre o a donde vivo, dijo Wolfe, quien es parte de una congregación baptista.Otras víctimas seguían siendo activas en Twitter cuando los bots de Devumi empezaron a suplantar su identidad. Salle Ingle, ingeniera de 40 años que vive en Colorado, dijo que le preocupaba que un posible empleador se topara con la versión falsa si revisaba su actividad en redes sociales como parte del proceso de contratación. Cuando el Times le avisó sobre la cuenta, ella contactó a Twitter y logró que fuera desactivada.Después de enviarle el correo a Calas el año pasado, un reportero del Times visitó la dirección en Manhattan que lista el sitio web de Devumi. En el edificio rentan decenas de oficinas, pero Devumi y su empresa matriz, Bytion, no parecen estar entre los arrendatarios. Un portavoz del dueño del edificio dijo que ni Devumi ni Bytion han rentado espacios ahí.Como los seguidores que vende, la oficina de Devumi es una ilusión.En la vida real, Devumi tiene su sede en un edificio de oficinas arriba de un restaurante de comida mexicana en West Palm Beach, Florida, y frente a un callejón repleto de basureros. Calas vive cerca en un penthouse.En su perfil de LinkedIn, Calas se describe como un empresario serial con antecedentes en la industria de la tecnología y un posgrado del Instituto Tecnológico de Massachusetts (MIT). Pero la imagen pública de Calas también es una mezcla de fantasía y realidad.Calas, quien tiene 27 años, creció en el sur de Florida. Cuando era adolescente aprendió diseño web y construyó los sitios de varias compañías locales, de acuerdo con versiones anteriores de su página web personal que están guardadas en el Internet Archive.Con el tiempo se autoenseñó técnicas de optimización de búsquedas: el arte de lograr que una página web termine más arriba al usar Google u otro motor de búsqueda. En el colegio comenzó a tomar clases en la universidad Palm Beach State, donde consiguió un título técnico en 2012, según una portavoz de la escuela. Pocos años después, Calas afirmaba haber construido decenas de empresas web con más de diez millones de clientes como parte de Bytion.Inicié esta compañía con mil dólares en el banco, sin inversores, y solo con una ardiente pasión por el éxito, escribió Calas en el sitio de listados laborales Glassdoor.Conforme crecieron sus ambiciones también lo hizo su supuesto historial. Una copia de su CV publicada en línea en 2014 dice que consiguió una licenciatura en Física de la Universidad de Princeton en el 2000, cuando habría tenido unos 10 años, y un doctorado en ciencias computacionales del MIT. Representantes de ambas escuelas dijeron que no tienen registro alguno de que Calas haya estado inscrito. Su página actual de LinkedIn dice que tiene una maestría en negocios internacionales por MIT, pese a que no es un posgrado que exista en esa institución.De acuerdo con exempleados de Devumi entrevistados por el Times, había una rotación constante del personal y Calais fragmentaba mucho las operaciones. Los empleados a veces no tenían idea de qué estaban haciendo sus colegas, hasta con los que compartían proyectos. Aunque estos empleados pidieron mantenerse anónimos por temor a demandas o porque firmaron acuerdos de confidencialidad, en el sitio Glassdoor hay comentarios muy similares de otros antiguos trabajadores, que dicen que Calas era poco comunicativo y exigió que instalaran software de monitoreo en sus dispositivos personales.Buena parte del personal de atención al cliente de Devumi está basado en Filipinas, lo que quizá le haya ayudado a Calas a reducir costos, pero también lo expuso a él mismo ser víctima del robo de su identidad social.En agosto, Calas presentó una demanda contra Ronwaldo Boado, contratista filipino que había trabajado como asistente de soporte en atención al cliente. Después de ser despedido por pelearse con otros integrantes del equipo, Boado tomó el control de un correo de Devumi en el que había más de 170.000 solicitudes de órdenes de clientes, según dice Calas en los documentos legales. Luego Boado creó un Devumi falso. (Algunos detalles de la demanda y de Devumi fueron reportados anteriormente por el Bureau of Investigative Journalism).Calas acusó que Boado usó un nombre muy similar, DevumiBoost, y el mismo diseño del sitio web, con todo y la dirección en Manhattan. Durante julio pasado, Boado –haciéndose pasar por un empleado de Devumi– le escribió a cientos de clientes de esta empresa para decirles que sus órdenes iban a ser procesadas por DevumiBoost. Luego también se hizo pasar por los clientes enviando correos a Devumi con diversos alias para pedir cancelar órdenes. (Boado no respondió a correos solicitándole respuesta a las acusaciones de Calas).La demanda de Calas también reveló algo más: parece que Devumi no hace sus propios bots. En cambio, los compra al mayoreo como parte de un mercado global de cuentas falsas en redes sociales.Esparcidos por todo el internet hay diversos sitios web con los que fabricantes anónimos de bots se conectan con minoristas como Devumi. Mientras que los clientes individuales llegan a comprar directo de estos sitios –Peakerr, CheapPanel o YTbot, entre otros– son menos amigables para un usuario directo. Algunas, por ejemplo, no aceptan pagos con tarjeta, solo Bitcoin.Cada sitio vende seguidores, me gusta y compartir al por mayor para diversas redes sociales en diferentes idiomas. Las cuentas que venden llegan a cambiar de manos en varias ocasiones y a ser comercializadas por más de un vendedor.Devumi, según un exempleado, utilizaba bots de diferentes fabricantes según el precio, la calidad y la confiabilidad. En Peakerr, por ejemplo, mil bots en inglés de alta calidad con fotografías de perfil cuestan poco más de un dólar. Devumi cobra 17 dólares por la misma cantidad.Ese margen de ganancia le ha permitido a Calas construir una pequeña fortuna, de acuerdo con los registros de la empresa. En tan solo unos años, Devumi vendió alrededor de 200 millones de seguidores de Twitter a por lo menos 39.000 clientes, lo que representa un tercio o más de los 6 millones de dólares en ventas durante ese periodo.En diciembre, Calas pidió que el Times le diera ejemplos de bots que habían copiado información de usuarios reales. Después de recibir los nombres de diez cuentas, Calas, quien había aceptado dar una entrevista, pidió más tiempo para analizarlas y después dejó de responder a los correos.Binns, la portavoz de Twitter, dijo que la empresa no revisa de manera proactiva las cuentas para ver si son suplantación de otros usuarios. En vez, añadió, los esfuerzos de la compañía se enfocan en identificar y suspender cuentas que violan las políticas de correo basura de Twitter. Binns dijo que en diciembre, por ejemplo, la compañía identificó en promedio unas 6,4 millones de cuentas sospechosas por semana.Todas las cuentas falsas que le mostró el Times está en violación de las políticas antispam de Twitter y fueron eliminadas, dijo Binns. Nos tomamos muy en serio la acción de suspender una cuenta en la plataforma, dijo. Al mismo tiempo, queremos combatir el spam de manera agresiva en la plataforma.Sin embargo, Twitter no ha impuesto salvaguardias aparentemente sencillas que ayudarían a coartar a los fabricantes de bots, como requerir que quien se registre para una cuenta nueva haga una prueba contra spam, como la que hacen muchos sitios comerciales. Como tal, Twitter ahora alberga una cantidad enorme de cuentas inactivas que incluyen cuentas probablemente controladas por fabricantes de bots.Antiguos empleados de la red social dijeron que el equipo de seguridad se enfocó por muchos años más bien en posibles casos de abuso contra usuarios, como el contenido racista y misógino, y en campañas antiacoso. Dijeron que fue hasta hace poco, entre revelaciones como el uso de bots por parte de hackers vinculados al gobierno ruso para promover noticias basura, que Twitter se enfocó más en deshacerse de las cuentas falsas.Leslie Miley, ingeniera que trabajó en la unidad de seguridad de la empresa y de sus usuarios hasta finales de 2015, dijo: Twitter, como red social, fue desarrollada prácticamente sin prever rendición de cuentas.Algunos críticos creen que hay un incentivo de negocios para Twitter en contra de reprimir más agresivamente a los bots. Durante los últimos dos años, la empresa ha batallado para generar el crecimiento de usuarios que han tenido rivales como Facebook o Snapchat e investigadores externos han puesto en tela de duda los estimados de la compañía sobre cuántos de sus usuarios activos son en realidad bots.Por Richard Harris y Danny DeBeliusTrabajamos con ecosistemas no regulados y cerrados por completo que no reportan estas cosas. Tienen un incentivo perverso para dejar que pase esto, dijo Essaid, el experto en ciberseguridad. Quieren controlar esto hasta el punto en el que no sea tan obvio que existe pero que [Twitter] siga sacando dinero de ello.En enero, después de unos dos años de promover cientos de cuentas de clientes de Devumi, la Jessica Rychly falsa por fin fue identificada por los algoritmos de seguridad de Twitter y la cuenta fue suspendida.Sin embargo, la verdadera Rychly ya planea salirse para siempre de esa red social.Probablemente voy a borrar mi cuenta de Twitter, dijo.Contribuyeron al reportaje Manuela Andreoni, Jeremy Ashkenas, Laurent Bastien Corbeil, Nic Dias, Elise Hansen, Michael Keller, Manuel Villa y Felipe Villamor. Colaboraron con investigación Susan C. Beachy, Doris Burke y Alain Delaquérière.Diseño y desarrollo por Danny DeBelius y Richard Harris. Dirección artística por Antonio De Luca y Jason Fujikuni. Fotos usadas en la ilustración: Ireland, Rodin Eckenroth/Getty Images; Lewis, D Dipasupil/FilmMagic; Leguizamo, Amanda Edwards/WireImage, vía Getty Images; Ingle, Morgan Rachel Levy para The New York TimesSept. 27, 2017Sept. 7, 2017Diseño y desarrollo por Danny DeBelius y Richard Harris. Dirección artística por Antonio De Luca y Jason Fujikuni. Fotos usadas en la ilustración: Ireland, Rodin Eckenroth/Getty Images; Lewis, D Dipasupil/FilmMagic; Leguizamo, Amanda Edwards/WireImage, vía Getty Images; Ingle, Morgan Rachel Levy para The New York TimesAdvertisementBy PETER BAKERFEB. 24, 2018
WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. We had a crooked candidate, he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: Lock her up!About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trumps former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russias interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Muellers office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried, said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.AdvertisementIn the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trumps campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manaforts business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.AdvertisementMr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with unwitting individuals connected with Mr. Trumps campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the presidents former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the presidents private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trumps cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsels office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel, Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion, said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the presidents associates.AdvertisementI dont think the president is worried about the investigation himself, he added, but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trumps campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the presidents close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trumps circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidates son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russias government.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give private briefings to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russias intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trumps defenders said Mr. Gatess credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the untrue piled up charges.Mr. Trumps argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagans era, it became known as the sleaze factor. Mr. Clintons team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.AdvertisementIn the current case, the targets so far have included not just a coffee boy, as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the presidents top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trumps chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trumps campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Mr. Trumps defenders have focused on questioning the original basis for the investigation, accusing the F.B.I. of misconduct in relying on an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy hired by investigators working for Mrs. Clintons campaign.To the extent that Mr. Mueller is exploring whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey, the presidents defenders contend that under the Constitution, he has the power to dismiss executive branch officials and dictate their work. They also point to testimony by Mr. Comey and other officials who said the investigation was not impeded.Therefore, they argue, the original order appointing Mr. Mueller was itself invalid and should be revoked.In the meantime, they are left to interpret the clues from Mr. Muellers actions just like everyone else. David B. Rivkin Jr., a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Reagan and President George Bush, said the totality of Mr. Muellers actions still did not add up to a threat to Mr. Trump.It doesnt make sense to unfold piecemeal an indictment of Russian entities and Russians if you have any hope of building a collusion case. It makes no logical sense, he said. To me, at least, what hes done does underscore that theres no collusion there. That leaves him with the obstruction of justice narrative which I think is constitutionally flawed and isnt going to go anywhere.Mr. Wittes said Mr. Muellers actions could be seen as building a pyramid — establishing that there was a Russian influence campaign and assembling a group of cooperating witnesses. But the special counsel has not tipped his hand yet.The basic contours of the puzzle is that hes constructed his actions in a way that we dont know where its leading, he said, and thats on purpose.Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernytA version of this news analysis appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Should Trump Fear Mueller?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Margaret RenklNASHVILLE — No one was shocked last week when SouthComm Inc., a Nashville-based media company, announced it was selling The Nashville Scene, its flagship alternative newsweekly. SouthComm had already sold or was in the process of selling its newspapers in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Tampa and Washington. And alt-weeklies around the country have been declining for years.Gone are The Baltimore City Paper, The Philadelphia City Paper, The Boston Phoenix. Last year, here in Tennessee, The Knoxville Mercury shut down. Also last year, Atlantas Creative Loafing laid off all but one person on the entire editorial staff. Even The Village Voice, the alt-weekly that invented alt-weeklies, now survives only online.Seeing The Scene on the auction block might not be surprising, but its still heartbreaking. In a shortsighted effort to make the paper more appealing to buyers, SouthComm laid off some passionate, immensely talented journalists and seriously overburdened those who remained. Some of them are people I know because I once wrote for The Scene, and I have spent more than 20 years watching the difference this newspaper has made to my city.In 1996, the summer my second child was born, I sent an envelope full of essays to The Nashville Scene. I was not a journalist — I was an English teacher on maternity leave — but the managing editor offered me a weekly column anyway. In time, I moved on to writing book reviews and then to editing them. In 2009, The Scenes owners killed the book page in a round of cost cutting, but within months I was back, in a way: I had gone on to edit a new nonprofit website designed to compensate for dwindling book coverage in newspapers. The site, an initiative of Humanities Tennessee, offers local literary news to state media outlets at no charge in exchange for byline credit and a link online. The first paper to sign up for our content was The Nashville Scene. It is still our partner today.In its early days, The Scene, like other alt-weeklies of the time, played the role of gadfly. Its job was to entertain, to shock, to peek into the quirky corners of the community and celebrate the oddball geniuses living here. It was a place where young journalists (and not-so-young English teachers) could learn their trade. Nonfiction writers as diverse as Katherine Boo, David Carr, Ta-Nehisi Coates, Joe Klein and Susan Orlean got their start at alt-weeklies.When classified ads — the bread and butter of the newspaper business — migrated online, newspapers big and small suffered. In towns like Nashville, midsize cities too small to sustain more than one daily paper, alt-weeklies morphed from journalisms irreverent younger siblings into necessary institutions. They covered news the shrinking dailies no longer touched, and they served as urgent competitors in areas where the dailies still invested resources, such as politics.In 1998, Nashvilles Gannett-owned morning daily, The Tennessean, bought the evening daily, the 122-year-old Nashville Banner, and then promptly shut it down. But reporters for The Scene were still right there, still holding politicians accountable and covering local arts in the kind of depth the daily never even aspired to.A lot of the work that alt-weeklies do now fills in the gaps created by understaffed dailies, said the former Scene editor Steve Cavendish. Its investigative work. Its cultural work. Theres nobody else writing culture in this city. Theres nobody else writing food in this city. Theres nobody else writing arts in this city. The only place you see that coverage, really, is in The Scene.In 2017, The Scene published in-depth cover stories on Those Darlins singer Jessi Zazu, who died in September at age 28 of cervical cancer; Cyrus Wilson, an inmate convicted of murder on the basis of testimony that has since been recanted; Nashvilles prospects for landing a Major League Soccer franchise (spoiler alert: We got it); a rape and sexual harassment lawsuit filed by the former Fox News commentator Scottie Nell Hughes; refugees living in Nashville; and a brilliant explanation for Nashvilles seemingly inexplicable invasion of drunk bridesmaids. Plus 46 others. And thats not counting the reporting and analysis to be found in the rest of the paper, or on The Scenes several blogs.Equally important is what alt-weeklies bring to political reporting. The history of Southern politics is a history of cronyism, and the situation is hardly better now — and hardly unique to the South. Too often, public servants answer to special interests like the N.R.A. and the Koch brothers out of fear of facing well-funded primary challengers they have little chance of beating. In statehouses and city halls across the country, the only thing standing between an oligarchy and a true republic is often a local newspaper reporter working on an ancient laptop to shore up the bulwark of truth.Bill Haslam, Tennessees Republican governor, is serving his final year in office. In a speech last week to the Tennessee Press Association, he acknowledged the risks of insufficiently funded news organizations: This is going to be a really important political year. This is a real governors race. We have a Senate race thats really important, not just for the state but the country, and a number of congressional seats in play. My fear is that all of these wont be covered in the detail they traditionally have.As more and more national advertising moves to internet giants like Google and Facebook, daily newspapers will continue to contract. Last week, eight months after taking home a Pulitzer Prize in journalism, the daily Charleston Gazette-Mail filed for bankruptcy. Employees at East Bay Times, a Pulitzer Prize-winning daily in Northern California, are taking buyouts and facing layoffs.In this climate, the importance of vibrant community alt-weeklies will continue to grow. While The Scene faces economic challenges, it is still a profitable newspaper. But it desperately needs a buyer willing to invest in its future — and, when necessary, to look beyond the quarterly bottom line to what the newspaper brings to this community.The financial pressures on these papers are going to require a different kind of owner, Mr. Cavendish said in an interview. There needs to be a new level of civic ownership that doesnt require a pound of flesh to be taken out every quarter, or every year.The owners of a local newspaper need to understand that they have not invested in an engine for quarter-over-quarter shareholder profit. They have entered into a crucial compact with their fellow citizens. They have invested in the city itself.In sanctioning modest profits and sometimes fitful growth, the new owners of The Scene will earn the privilege of uncovering conflicts of interest that public servants would prefer to keep hidden, demanding access to public records the public doesnt yet know are theirs, helping people who are enduring injustice, and championing people who are quietly making a difference.Owning a local newspaper is not the way to wealth. Its the way to something far more important than wealth. In this age of alternative truth, the real news, for all its deadline-driven mistakes, is our best hope for surviving the now-daily challenges to American democracy.The Nashville Scene is for sale. Someone who cares about the fate of this city — and this country — should buy it.Margaret Renkl is a contributing opinion writer and the editor of Chapter 16, a publication of Humanities Tennessee.OpinionMargaret RenklAdvertisementBy TIM HERRERAFEB. 5, 2018
Welcome to the Smarter Living newsletter. The editor, Tim Herrera, emails readers with tips and advice for living a better, more fulfilling life. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.One of my favorite ideas to mull over is how busy we are — or, rather, how busy we think we are. (The first Smarter Living newsletter was dedicated solely to that concept.)A big reason we think were so busy is that we fill our days with things we dont really care about or want to do. We dole out an easy yes to things instead of working through a potentially difficult no, and the result is an overcommitment of our time and energy to things that arent important to us. (Read more: Why you should learn to say no more often.)Im as guilty of this as anyone! My stock response to Hows it going? is always Ugh, so busy today. Often thats true in a genuine way, but just as often its because Im committed to things or ideas Im not passionate about.AdvertisementCall it essentialism, KonMari or any other name thats been attached to this idea, but what were talking about is this: Figure out whats core to your identity, and follow only those pursuits.AdvertisementWhat does that mean for you? Let me know on Twitter and email.In between all of your self-reflection, here are a few other things to think about or do this week:The best thing I read last week was this post about things we should have learned in school but never did. Its all worth reading, but the section on self-acceptance is deeply resonant: Its amazing how much energy and effort we all put into trying to be perceived as cool. We deliberately curate our Instagram pictures and Facebook status updates. Were cautious about what we choose to reveal out of fear of being labeled uncool. But the effort we put into being cool, to sanding off our rough edges can be truly exhausting.Yes, you should still get one, even though were deep into flu season. (Its so, so bad this year.)We are still seeing increases this week in hospitalizations and influenza-like illness, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Friday. We have seen 10 consecutive weeks of elevated influenza activity so far, and our average flu season duration is between 11-20 weeks. So, there may be many weeks left for this season.A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.We have not hit our peak yet, unfortunately, Kristen Nordlund, a C.D.C. spokeswoman, told CNN. Really, the bottom line is, there is still likely many more weeks to go.Still not convinced you need one? Read this, and know that getting a shot isnt just about you.You know what I finished last week? My income taxes! My previous record for earliest filing date was April 13, so Im feeling pretty good about it. If youre a chronic late-filer like me, set aside an hour after work this week, pick up your favorite snack to munch on, and just get it done. Heres a good primer on getting started. Make April 17 one less deadline youll have to stress over this year.Have a great week!— TimThe 6 Steps to Turning Setbacks Into Advantages People experience six distinct stages of turning adversity into growth. These stages apply to organizations, families, communities and individuals.The 7-Day Financial Tuneup Tidy your finances, optimize your spending and plan for the long term.Its Tax Time: What to Remember Most provisions of the new tax law wont affect this years returns, with the exception of a temporary change broadening the deduction for medical expenses.AdvertisementThe Mysterious Interior World of Exercise What happens inside our bodies when we work out.How Do I Avoid Catching Cold or Flu From My Sick Partner? Its harder to protect yourself when the sick person is living inside your house. But certain measures may help.Keep Your Head Up: How Smartphone Addiction Kills Manners and Moods Text neck is becoming a medical issue suffered by countless people, and the way we hang our heads has other health risks, too.To kick off resolutions month in this newsletter, Ive invited Abby Langer, a registered dietitian and friend of SL, to share some tips about staying strong if your resolution this year is to eat healthier.SimplifyIf youve resolved to do a complete diet overhaul and are getting overwhelmed, simplify your plan by choosing one simple goal. For example, resolving to eat five servings of vegetables a day can be easier and more sustainable than changing your entire diet. Once your goal becomes habit, build on it from there.Acknowledge the winsWhat matters is that youre moving in the right direction. Only manage to bring your lunch to work once a week instead of four times? Youre good! As long as youre making progress with your resolution, however small, consider it a win: Flexibility is not failure.Enlist helpWhether its outsourcing some of your meals to a delivery service, joining a healthy-lunch club at work, or asking for support from like-minded friends, you dont have to do this alone. Theres no shame at all in finding shortcuts or asking for help.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 22, 2018
Good Thursday. Heres what were watching:• How to kill off a bank quietly.• Snap just lost nearly $2 billion in market value.• The new tax law is having implications beyond Americas borders.• The Supreme Court helps define what a whistle-blower must do.• Newell Brands named three new directors as it fights with Starboard Value.• Broadcom and Qualcomm are getting feistier in their deal fight.Want this in your inbox every morning? Sign up here.The Trump administration has mostly taken a softer stance toward Wall Street, but on Wednesday, it suggested a regulatory change designed to make life harder for the big banks.AdvertisementThe change, proposed by the Treasury Department, is arcane, but in a financial crisis, it could be hugely consequential.AdvertisementWhat is it? The tweak aims to increase the likelihood that a failing bank would be forced into bankruptcy, rather than into a resolution process overseen by the government. The difference might seem insignificant, especially since the current regulatory procedures for winding down a bank, introduced by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, are stringent and mimic bankruptcy. But the Treasury Department believes that an actual bankruptcy would be preferable. It would make the process of restructuring a failed bank more evenhanded and predictable, according to the Treasury. In turn, investors in the big Wall Street firms, and anyone doing business with them, would become more aware of the losses they could suffer if those firms crashed.But didnt the financial crisis of 2008 illustrate the grave dangers of allowing a large bank to go into bankruptcy? The disorderly collapse of Lehman Brothers into bankruptcy set off a panic across the global financial system, according to most analyses of the period. And that is why the Dodd-Frank Act set up a way for regulators to seize a large bank and restructure it in a controlled manner, known as the orderly liquidation authority. As with bankruptcy, it envisions making creditors the new owners of a restructured firm. But it added a feature to limit panic. Under Dodd-Frank, regulators can lend to the failed bank. Such a backstop could prevent a further run on the bank. Its customers and creditors would see that the seized bank had sufficient funds to pay them. The government lending mimics the loans that banks make to bankrupt companies.How much of this does the Treasury want to do away with? Not much at all. It recommends using the Dodd-Frank resolution framework as an emergency tool for use in extraordinary circumstances. But thats how the backers of Dodd-Frank saw the process, too. Crucially, the Treasury also wants to keep the emergency government loan. But the Treasurys proposal does introduce an important and innovative change. It calls for a special type of bankruptcy regime for large financial firms, called Chapter 14. This new regime envisions having a set of specialist judges, working with regulators in the United States and around the world, who could plan for and oversee the bankruptcies of large banks.Would Chapter 14 work in a crisis? Much depends on whether the customers and creditors of the failing bank yank their money, intensifying the run and spreading fear through the system. The Treasury argues that changes since the crisis mean banks have more cash on hand, and banks can now hold off for a short time on paying claims on financial instruments called derivatives (recall, such claims were particularly debilitating for Lehman.) Also, banks must now have detailed plans to put themselves into bankruptcy, though the Treasury last year suggested changes that might make that planning less stringent. Notably, the Treasury hopes to make Chapter 14 effective by deploying a method for restructuring a failed bank that regulators already expect to use under the orderly liquidation authority.This approach rests on turning pre-existing debt owed by a banks holding company into new equity at the subsidiaries where the bank does all its business. The theory: If a reassuringly large amount of new equity were created at the subsidiaries, the banks creditors and trading partners would feel protected and not withdraw. Indeed, the Treasury says this would eliminate the incentive for counterparties to run.Eliminate is a strong word. In the heat of a crisis, when the scale of a banks losses is not known, making it hard to know how much new equity is needed, creditors and trading partners may just head for the exits, crippling the bank. Even so, Aaron Klein, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, said it made a lot of sense to enshrine this formal wind-down procedure in bankruptcy. Why wouldnt you want to make bankruptcy better? he said.And theres a big reason it might work. Under post-crisis rules, banks must earmark billions of dollars of debt that would be used for creating new equity in a resolution. Put another way, Dodd-Frank has made it possible for the Trump administration to pursue a favored policy goal.Advertisement— Peter EavisShares of the social media company tumbled 7.4 percent Thursday after Kylie Jenner tweeted that she no longer opens Snapchat.
            sooo does anyone else not open Snapchat anymore? Or is it just me... ugh this is so sad.        The tweet comes as Snap faces growing criticism from users over the redesign of its app. So far nearly 1.5 million people have retweeted a petition asking Snap to revert to the old version, CNBC reported.Earlier this week analysts at Citi became the latest to downgrade the stock over the negative reaction.Mark May of Citi wrote:While the recent redesign of its flagship app could produce positive long-term benefits, the significant jump in negative app reviews since the redesign was pushed out a few weeks could result in a decline in users and user engagement, which could negatively impact financial results.European banks with significant operations in New York and other parts of the United States have seen multi-billion dollar hits on their results in the fourth quarter as a result.Changes in corporate tax rates have forced European lenders – and their American counterparts – to recognize so-called deferred tax assets at the end of last year.But, the pain is expected to be short term as most banks, including Barclays and UBS, anticipate the tax rate for their United States operations will be lower future.As earnings season edges toward a close, here is the impact on some of Europes largest lenders:• Barclays reported an annual loss of 1.9 billion pounds, or about $2.7 billion after it took a series of charges, including £900 million related to tax changes in the United States. Given the groups substantial U.S. operations, this is expected to result in a reduction of the groups effective tax rate in 2018 and future periods to mid-20 percent, the bank said on Thursday.• Credit Suisse reported a loss of 2.13 billion Swiss francs, or about $2.3 billion, in the fourth quarter, driven primarily by 2.23 billion francs in income tax expenses related to the reassessment of its deferred tax assets.Advertisement• Deutsche Bank reported a full-year loss of 497 million euros, or about $612 million. John Cryan, the Deutsche Bank chief executive, said: Only a charge related to US tax reform at the end of the year meant that we had to post a full-year after-tax loss.• HSBC reported a pretax profit of $17.2 billion for 2017, but took a charge of $1.3 billion to reflect a reevaluation of its deferred tax balances.• Société Générale said its profit was dragged down in the quarter after it was hit by restructuring charges related to its French retail banking network and the impact of tax reforms in France and in the United States.• UBS fell to a loss in the fourth quarter as a result of a writedown of 2.87 billion francs on deferred tax assets.Keep an eye out for Standard Chartered when it reports its annual results next week.The bank, which is based in Britain, but makes most of its money in Asia, has been recently touting its ability to serve the North American market.— Chad BrayAccording to the Supreme Court, in an opinion written by Ruth Bader Ginsburg, it requires telling the Securities and Exchange Commission, not just your bosses. More from Andrew Ackerman of the WSJ:The case stems from a lawsuit filed by a would-be whistle-blower, Paul Somers, who says he was fired from Digital Realty Trust in 2014 after complaining internally about accounting irregularities, among other matters. Mr. Somers argued he was protected by Dodd-Frank even though he didnt report the alleged problems to the S.E.C.Peter Hennings takeThe Supreme Court, in an opinion by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, rejected that reading of the statute. It applied a simple analysis: Courts are not at liberty to dispense with the condition — tell the S.E.C. — Congress imposed. By not reporting his suspicions to the S.E.C., he lost the protection afforded whistle-blowers.The maker of Sharpie markers and Elmers glue said today that it was adding three new directors amid its fight with Starboard. They are:• James Craigie, the chairman and former C.E.O. of Church & Dwight, the maker of Arm & Hammer• Debra Crew, the former C.E.O. of Reynolds American, the tobacco company• Judith Sprieser, a former C.E.O. of Transora, a services provider for packaged goods companies (who will be nominated at the companys upcoming annual meeting)AdvertisementWhat Newell said of the move:These actions are part of Newell Brands ongoing refreshment process on behalf of shareholders designed to build a board with the best mix of skills, expertise and experience to support the Newell Brands leadership team in accelerating shareholder value creation.What it didnt say: That this was a response to Starboard, which has criticized Newells management team — and is seeking to replace the companys entire board.— Michael de la MercedRay Dalio, the founder of Bridgewater Associates, the worlds biggest hedge fund, thinks so.Last week, Mr. Dalio said: The risks of a recession in the next 18-24 months are rising.Now he says there is a 70 percent chance of one before the next presidential election in 2020, according to Reuters.During an appearance Wednesday at the Harvard Kennedy Schools Institute of Politics, Mr. Dalio said:I think we are in a pre-bubble stage that could go into a bubble stage ... The probability of a recession prior to the next presidential election would be relatively high, maybe 70 percent.Broadcom didnt walk away after Qualcomm raised its takeover bid for NXP Semiconductor, but it did lower its own proposal by $3 a share, to $79. Why? Because the new NXP offer transferred $4.10 per Qualcomm share to NXP investors.Qualcomm responded that the move made an inadequate offer even worse, and argued that the NXP deal couldnt have gotten done at the original price of $110 a share.Looks like were headed to a showdown at Qualcomms annual meeting on March 6.The deals flyaround• As online streaming booms and 5G gets closer, is now the time for Charlie Ergen to sell Dish Networks? (Gadfly)• Hedge funds like Verition Partners are trying to save the shareholder appraisal process, meant to wring more money from mergers, from a series of adverse court rulings. (FT)Advertisement• Britain might block Melrose Industriess hostile takeover of the aerospace supplier GKN on national security grounds. (FT)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Two big U.S. hospital networks, Bon Secours Health System and Mercy Health, have agreed to merge, amid a surge in deal-making in the industry. (WSJ)Why has its growth slowed? A new study by the McKinsey Global Institute suggests that rising consumer demand, as well as what companies produce and which tech they use, drives productivity improvements.More from Peter Eaviss correspondence with Jaana Remes of McKinsey, one of the studys authors:Important new technologies can often take well over 10 years to have a big impact on productivity, she adds. The optimistic take, though, is that we can in the coming years expect to see big benefits as companies further automate, and introduce artificial intelligence.In other macro news: Prepare for interest rates to rise, Jay Powell said. Preferably gradually, Randal Quarles added. The saving rate is at a 12-year low. And no one knows why the markets dropped suddenly yesterday.• Mississippi granted a tax break worth up to $6 million to a hotel tied to the Trump family business. So could that violate the emoluments clause? (NYT)• Sam Nunberg, a Trump campaign adviser, is scheduled to meet today with Robert Mueller. And t he special counsel has filed new charges — under seal — against Paul Manafort and Rick Gates.• Congresss next fight over Dreamers may come with a $1.3 trillion spending bill to avert a government shutdown on March 23. Meanwhile, Melania Trumps parents have become lawful U.S. residents, perhaps through what the White House denounces as chain migration.• Senators James Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, and Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, called for a bipartisan infrastructure bill. (WSJ)Advertisement• Survivors of school shootings shared their stories with President Trump and pleaded for action. (NYT)• Representative Trey Gowdy of the House Oversight Committee demanded documents relating to first-class travel by Scott Pruitt, the head of the E.P.A. (NYT)The banks employees are scattered across Midtown Manhattan. So its planning a new headquarters, which could be as tall as 75 stories, to house 15,000 workers. (Its current H.Q. — which, fun fact, is where the pistols from Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burrs duel reside — was designed for about 3,500.)The context: The forthcoming JPMorgan skyscraper is the first major project under New York Citys Midtown East rezoning plan. The bank dropped plans for Manhattans Far West Side after failing to secure subsidies from the city.Elsewhere in banking:  Barclays lost $2.7 billion last year, hit by the U.S. tax overhaul, but promised to double its dividend. And José Manuel Barroso, chairman of Goldman Sachs International, has been criticized for lobbying the European Commission, which he led until 2014.The carmaker didnt specify what Raj Nair, the head of its North American operations, did to be fired, only that his ouster arose out of an anonymous tip. But the move adds to turmoil at the struggling company.The context: Ford already apologized to its workers after the NYT investigated longstanding abuses of women at two of its plants in Chicago. And its operations chief in China left earlier this year for pre-Ford personal reasons.The misconduct flyaround• The Dallas Mavericks franchise has hired outside counsel to investigate allegations of inappropriate conduct against its former team president.Advertisement• A national online survey found sexual harassment and assault to be much more common than previous studies had suggested. (NYT)• The former NPR executive Michael Oreskes was warned repeatedly that he was acting inappropriately toward women, and kept doing it, according to an independent investigation. (NYT)• Tom Schumacher, the Disney executive who took Frozen to Broadway, has been accused of workplace harassment. (WSJ)• An anonymous chat app is helping lift the lid on sexual harassment in South Korea. (Reuters)The secure messaging service is holding a second private presale before its highly anticipated (and record-breaking) initial coin offering. More from Adrianne Jeffries of The Verge:The exact amount to be raised is still being determined, according to one source, but two other sources said Telegram is estimating it will be around the same size as the first round, which would bring the total raised to over $1.6 billion before the ICO even opens up to the general public.More in digital money• The S.E.C. charged the virtual currency exchange BitFunder and its founder with fraud. (CNBC)• The Justice Department has made gains on a seized Bitcoin hoard, but has had trouble cashing out. (Fortune)• Some new ways of selling shovels to Bitcoin miners. (WSJ)• Lawmakers in Britain are examining sympathetic ways to regulate digital currencies. (Reuters)• New software at big cryptocurrency exchanges could make Bitcoin transactions cheaper. (CNBC)And Bitcoins at $10,676 today, according to CoinMarketCap.• The latest chatbots are impressive. But they might be even better if their inventors werent scared of them saying something vile in public. (NYT)Advertisement• Airbnb is trying to promote its Experiences business as it heads toward an I.P.O., with little success. (WSJ)• Amazons Alexa could be the next great consumer computing platform, says Farhad Manjoo. (NYT)• Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook, says it could be fixed by charging users for a better News Feed, arranged in cable-style bundles. (WaPo)• Uber will keep investing in Southeast Asia, despite losing money to local rivals. (Reuters)• A former Google engineer has sued the company for discrimination and wrongful termination, saying he fired for responding to racist and sexist encounters. (The Verge)• Naspers of South Africa has become an under-the-radar e-commerce giant and global tech investor. (The Information)• One of Twitters solutions for bot accounts: limiting automated tweets. (Axios)• Facebook is using algorithms to flag expressions of suicidal thoughts. (CNBC)• Apple wants to patent a way to count calories burned during yoga. (Axios)• Peter Tague, one of Citigroups co-heads of M. & A., is leaving. (WSJ)• Alison Gleeson and Wendy Bahr are the finalists to become Ciscos global sales chief and No. 2 executive, unnamed sources say. (The Information)• Glassdoor has hired Jim Cox from Lithium Technologies as its C.F.O. It also named Christian Sutherland-Wong as its first C.O.O. and Samantha Zupan as its vice president of global corporate communications. (Glassdoor)Advertisement• Coinbase is hiring a C.F.O. (Recode)There is a credibility gap between what they say and the reality of what is to come.— The Deutsche Bank analyst John Inch on how G.E. executives — including Jeff Immelt — masked problems at the conglomerate with rosy projections and questionable accounting.• Toys R Us plans to close another 200 stores and lay off many of its corporate staff after disappointing holiday sales, unnamed sources say. (WSJ)• British officials have been holding talks with Unilever amid fears that the Anglo-Dutch consumer group could choose to have one unified headquarters in Rotterdam, not London. (FT)• Hedge funds are buying planes and leasing them to airlines. (FT)• A fund managed directly by Alan Howard, who made his name with impressive profits during the financial crisis in 2008, lost nearly 9 percent net of fees from May through December. (Reuters)• Greeces Parliament voted to investigate politicians over allegations of bribery by the Swiss drugmaker Novartis. (Reuters)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
FEB. 23, 2018
Good morning on this damp Friday.With our subways in crisis, advocates are trying to ratchet up political pressure to fix the system by highlighting the most nightmarish journeys.The Riders Alliances new Worst Commute of the Week award drew these submissions from passengers:• A broken elevator at Herald Square and another at Penn Station meant that Maggie Clarke, 64, a busker from Inwood, had to lug 50 pounds of music equipment up and down an extra four flights of stairs. Considering the damage the system is doing to my person, she said, I need to just suck it up and take a cab.•  John Rakis, 65, a criminal justice consultant, waited 45 minutes for a southbound R train at City Hall, gave up, caught a northbound R to Canal Street to switch trains, and waited another 35 minutes. At one point he thought to himself, I left work an hour and a half ago and Im further away than when I started.• After a 25-minute wait, Alisa Roost, 46, a professor at CUNY, squeezed onto an uptown A train, whereupon a laundry cart ran over my feet and someone hit my 13-month old son in the head with his bag.AdvertisementBut the winner of this weeks worst commute award was:• Jennifer Tang 49, a librarian at CUNY from Forest Hills, Queens. She made the mistake of skipping the bathroom on the way home from brunch and found herself stuck in a stalled R only a few feet from her stop at 63rd Drive.AdvertisementPeople around me were getting antsy, cursing, and stomping their feet, she said. My bladder was bursting and I started panicking. An hour and 20 minutes later, the train rolled into the station.But enough about bad commutes. We want to hear something positive for a change.Have you had something unexpectedly pleasant happen to you during a recent commute? Witnessed a touching act of humanity, met someone special, saw something that made you smile? Rode a train that got from point A to point B without pausing once?Tell us at nytoday@nytimes.com. Please include your full name, age and the neighborhood or city in which you live. We may include your response in an upcoming New York Today column.Heres what else is happening:Another cool, drizzly day, with a high around 44. (Wind chill will make it feel between 30 and 35.)The weekend will be warmer — 58 tomorrow, 48 on Sunday — but rain and gray skies will persist.The sun returns on Monday to welcome you back to work.• The jury selection process in the case of a nanny who allegedly murdered two children she was watching has become a microcosm of a split New York, those who can afford a nanny and those who cannot. [New York Times]• Subway stations will receive $250 million in cosmetic upgrades, spending that Mayor Bill de Blasio calls unnecessary. [New York Times]• Emails from Joseph Percoco, the former aide to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, show his influence on state employment decisions, even after he left office. [New York Times]Advertisement• Four states in the Northeast with relatively strong gun laws have banded together to share information about people who have been deemed mentally unfit to own a gun. [New York Times]• Spurred by the #MeToo movement, a group initiative is looking to elect 21 women to New York City Council in 2021. [New York Times]• A former senior city official filed a complaint with the Conflicts of Interest Board after saying that he was fired for resisting efforts by Mayor Bill de Blasio to secure special treatment for political donors. [New York Times]• Federal charges were brought against Richard Walker, Nassau Countys former chief deputy executive, widening corruption investigations on Long Island. [New York Times]• A woman who spent the night at a lavish residential high-rise in Manhattan described her experience as luxurious, but also grounding. [New York Times]• New York City schools saw an increase in classroom lockdown situations last years academic year. [New York Post]• Mayor Bill de Blasio announced plans to add safety measures in New York City schools. [New York Daily News]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Reprieve on a Stopped Train• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Advertisement• Visit an exhibition of photographs of David Bowie at the Morrison Hotel Gallery in SoHo. 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. [Free]• Music, drinks, performances and a look at librarys collections, part of the Library After Hours, at the Stephen A. Schwarzman Building of the New York Public Library in Midtown. 7 p.m. [Free]• A discussion with the author of Surveillance Valley: The Secret Military History of the Internet at the PowerHouse Arena in Dumbo, Brooklyn. 7 p.m. [Free]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A lecture about the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope, followed by stargazing (weather permitting), at Columbia University in Morningside Heights. 7 p.m. [Free]• Rangers host Wild, 7 p.m. (MSG).• Watch The New York Times Close Up, featuring the former New York Times editor James Greenfield and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV.• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until next Thursday.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday • Take a behind-the-scenes tour of the Merchants House Museum in Greenwich Village. 10:30 a.m. [$30]• Learn how to make a zine at a workshop at New Women Space in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn. 4 p.m. [Pay what you wish]• Sample prosciutto, speck and ham at the Charcuterie Masters food festival at Flushing Town Hall in Queens. 6 to 9 p.m. [$65]Advertisement• A night of Friends trivia at Barrel & Fare in Park Slope, Brooklyn. 8 p.m. [Free]• Devils host Islanders, 7 p.m. (MS+2, MSG+). Knicks host Celtics, 7:30 p.m. (MSG).Sunday • An exhibition of work on red envelopes by more than 150 artists at the Red Envelope Show at Grumpy Bert in Downtown Brooklyn. Noon to 6 p.m. [Free]• Learn how ballerinas dance on point and see excerpts from The Sleeping Beauty, The Nutcracker, and Swan Lake, presented by the School of American Ballet, at the Queens Theater in Flushing Meadows Corona Park. 1 and 3 p.m. [Free, reservations required]• Celebrate the Year of the Dog at the New York City Lunar New Year Parade and Festival at the Sara D. Roosevelt Park in Lower Manhattan. 1 to 4 p.m. [Free]• Sample mac and cheese from city cooks, and vote for your favorite, at the Mac and Cheese Takedown at the Brooklyn Bazaar in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. 2 p.m. [$25]• Rangers host Red Wings, 7 p.m. (MSG).• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Heres one more way to enjoy the wet weekend: Spend it indoors, catching up on 2017s best movies.During the Best Picture Film Festival, Regal Cinemas in Battery Park is screening this years nine Best Picture Oscar nominees through March 3 for $35.AdvertisementIf youve already seen them, there are plenty of other film festivals across the city.• Science fiction features and shorts, including Methane Momma and The Super Recognizer, at the Philip K. Dick Science Fiction Festival at Village Cinema East in the East Village and the Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens. Through Sunday. [Prices vary]• Lu Over the Wall, directed by Masaaki Yuasa, and other animated, live-action and virtual reality films for kids — and their adults — at the New York International Childrens Film Festival, at various locations. Through March 18. [Prices vary]• Feature, documentary and short films by and about women at the Athena Film Festival at Barnard College in Morningside Heights. Through Sunday. [Prices range from free to $20]• Discussion panels and 93 films from emerging filmmakers at the Winter Film Awards at Cinema Village in Greenwich Village and Anthology Film Archives in the East Village. Through March 3. [Prices range from free to $15]• And Film Comment magazine will screen some of its favorite movies, like Life and Nothing More and Gutland, at its annual festival at the Film Society of Lincoln Center. Through Feb. 27. [$15]New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By IAN AUSTEN and CATHERINE PORTERJAN. 29, 2018
OTTAWA — Michelle Rempel was debating a sexual harassment bill in Canadas House of Commons on Monday when she suddenly fell silent. Ms. Rempel, a Conservative lawmaker from Alberta, dropped her prepared remarks onto her desk, stretched out her arms and turned her palms up.I dont want to sit in this place and have this conversation again, she told the chamber. I dont want another woman coming into my office. This needs to stop and it needs to stop now.Mondays frank debate in Canadas seat of power about sexual harassment and politics was the latest, and most potent, response to the #MeToo movement that is sweeping the nation in ways that have surprised even hardened Canadian feminists.In a country that often defines itself in the ways it is different from its larger and more bellicose American neighbor, Canadian women have been both inspired and dispirited by what is happening across the border and moved to speak out themselves.AdvertisementOne notable difference, however, is that Canadian politicians from all parties are strongly calling for changes and supporting victims who are increasingly coming forward.The MeToo and Times Up movements have helped women and other survivors from around the world to bring their stories forward and shine a spotlight on harassment and sexual violence, said Patty Hajdu, Canadas labor minister, while opening the debate on stronger sexual harassment protection legislation in the House of Commons, and its our responsibility to ensure that light does not fade.AdvertisementOne lawmaker after another rose to support her bill, and in some cases, argue that it should be strengthened.The debate came, coincidentally, as Canada is reeling from a maelstrom of accusations of sexually inappropriate behavior against men in positions of power, and their swift removal.Just last week, two provincial Conservative Party leaders and a federal cabinet minister resigned. Outside of politics,  one of the most prominent members of Torontos theater community quit the company he founded, accused in a lawsuit of sexual harassment. And last fall, two of Quebecs most well-known celebrities disappeared from stages and television screens amid accusations of sexual impropriety.All of the Canadian cases came after revelations last fall about the American film producer Harvey Weinstein set off a wave of accusations of sexual harassment and impropriety, with women speaking out loudly through the #MeToo movement and dozens of men resigning from their posts in entertainment, politics, publishing and journalism.Canada had already been grappling with the issue of sexual assault in various cases through the years, but the volume of womens voices across the border gave many reason to believe that the climate in their country might have changed, too.Its a perfect storm for reform, said Michelle Coffin, a political science professor at Saint Marys University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, who worked in provincial politics for more than five years.AdvertisementIt is not only that Canadian women feel emboldened by their American counterparts, she added. They also feel propelled by American politics, she said.Women are speaking up to make sure that we do not get to that place where we have a prime minister accused of sexual assault, where theres a tape of him talking about women in a misogynistic way, Professor Coffin said, referring to the Access Hollywood recording in which Donald J. Trump bragged about grabbing womens genitals.Paulette Senior, president of the Canadian Womens Foundation, which finances gender equality projects across the country, said the election of Mr. Trump galvanized Canadian feminists, too.It woke up women out of their slumber, those of us, even me, who took it for granted that could never happen, Ms. Senior said. We realized that all we have worked for can be lost.Over the past week, as the accusations piled up, Canadian politicians from all parties have been swift to demand change and, even more unusually, publicly applaud female victims for disclosing their stories of abuse or assault, even anonymously.Patrick Brown, the former leader of Ontarios Progressive Conservatives, resigned last week amid accusations of sexual misconduct.Lisa Raitt, the deputy leader of the Conservative Party, called the women whose disclosures have toppled two provincial leaders from her own party brave young women on the national Canadian Broadcasting Corporation over the weekend. I commend them for coming forward. Now, its caused an awful lot of turmoil in politics, but thats O.K.Rachel Notley, the premier of Alberta, put out a message on Facebook on Monday evening: I say to everyone in Alberta who has been subject to sexual harassment, you have a right to tell your story and share your experience. And that right must come without fear of retribution. Any form of intimidation is wrong. Threats associated with speaking out are also wrong. Completely.Ms. Notleys public announcement came after an Alberta political staff member last week on Twitter accused Kent Hehr, federal minister of sport and persons with disabilities, of making sexual comments about her, prompting his resignation. The staff member told various Canadian media outlets that after her accusations she received a barrage of death threats, including one slipped under her door at home.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Unlike the government in Washington, the federal government in Canada under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, a self-described feminist, has been leading the push to address sexual harassment. The legislation his government introduced Monday defines it broadly, as any comment, gesture or touching of a sexual nature that could offend or humiliate an employee.AdvertisementThe bill also includes as sexual harassment any condition of a sexual nature that might affect a workers job security or opportunities for promotion. If passed, the changes will set up a formal complaint system and give the labor department sweeping investigatory powers.The proposed measure also extends the rules to political staff members for the first time. Over the past week, many former political staff members have told personal stories of unwanted groping, kissing and lewd comments they suffered so regularly they thought it was part of the job.Things need to change and it starts with saying emphatically that it is never O.K., said Ms. Hajdu, the labor minister, on Monday. She said Parliament was a place where often the victimized individual is blamed for the harassment that she herself has experienced. We are all familiar with this phrase: She brought it on herself. The new definitions and complaint systems will, in practice, benefit a minority of Canadian workers — those who work in the federal government and in federally regulated businesses like banks, airlines and railways.Just over three years ago, the debate over sexual harassment flared up in Canada after the firing and arrest of a prominent musician and radio host, Jian Ghomeshi. That brought the topic of sexual assault out from womens shelters into coffee shops and onto daily radio shows, where it has mostly remained.But instead of emboldening other women, the spectacle of Mr. Ghomeshis criminal trial proved to silence women. In declaring Mr. Ghomeshi not guilty, the judge described the female complainants as insincere and deceptive.Now that the movement is back on its feet, Canadian feminists say, they hope the grass-roots movement catches up with the political leadership, and changes spread from politics and the media into other domains.It is a very interesting political time, said Lise Gotell, a professor of women and gender studies at the University of Alberta. There is a lot of space for feminism. I certainly would not have predicted this.Follow Ian Austen on Twitter: @ianrausten.Follow Catherine Porter on Twitter: @porterthereport.Ian Austen reported from Ottawa, and Catherine Porter from Toronto.A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: #MeToo Movement Spills Across a Border and Intensifies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVID GELLESFEB. 1, 2018
Can private businesses solve public policy problems better than the government? Its a question that has persisted for decades and taken on new resonance now that a career businessman is in the White House.There has never been a clear answer. For every sign of success — a smooth privatized toll road or a gleaming charter school — there have been obstacles revealing just how difficult public works can be.But companies havent stopped trying. Just this past week, the ambitions reached new heights when three of todays most successful business leaders said they would form an independent company aimed at lowering the burden that health care places on the economy while improving the system for their employees.In a brief statement that provided virtually no details, the chief executives of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase said they were fed up with the state of the health care system, and were convinced they could do better themselves.AdvertisementThe ballooning costs of health care act as a hungry tapeworm on the American economy, said Warren E. Buffett, the head of Berkshire Hathaway. Our group does not come to this problem with answers. But we also do not accept it as inevitable.AdvertisementJoining Mr. Buffett were Jeff Bezos of Amazon and Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan. Together, the three men have revolutionized industries, forged empires and navigated all manner of crises. But can they fix health care?In announcing they would try, they delivered an implicit rebuke of the complex and costly American health care system, suggesting that the best minds in business could do better.Companies are now thinking much more about how to solve larger social problems, said Aaron Chatterji, a professor at Duke Universitys Fuqua School of Business. When Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan, three leaders in their industries, looked around, they realized that health care is a big issue facing them all.Their efforts stem from a feeling that, with partisan bickering and constant campaigning consuming Washington, the onus is on businesses to fill the void left by an ineffective government.Timothy D. Cook, the chief executive of Apple, acknowledged recently that a new imperative was challenging corporations. Government has become less functional and isnt working at the speed that it once was, he told The New York Times last year. And so it does fall, I think, not just on business but on all other areas of society to step up.The notion that big business might shape government policy is nothing new, of course. Lobbyists have been working to sway lawmakers for decades, and the corporate world was an influential force in the tax overhaul passed last year.Yet for the most part, these efforts were narrowly aligned with a companys self-interest, usually in the form of lowering taxes and loosening regulations. And rarely have business leaders tried to assume operational control of a government function, let alone something as complex and unwieldy as health care.AdvertisementIn recent years, however, more chief executives have begun speaking out on issues that at first glance have little to do with the bottom line, including immigration policy, climate change and gay rights.Corporate leaders have banded together to protest laws targeting transgender and gay rights in Indiana, North Carolina and Texas. And last year, as President Trump rolled out strict immigration rules, executives spoke out against the effort, with some, like the Google co-founder Sergey Brin, joining protesters at airports.The lack of leadership on the national political level has left this vacuum, said Kathleen Clark, a professor at the Washington University Law school. Fortunately, there are some business leaders who see that theres a role for them to play.The most vivid expression of this new willingness to speak out came last summer after white supremacists marched on Charlottesville, Va., and Mr. Trump equivocated in his response to the violence.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a matter of days, top executives at the nations largest companies issued statements condemning racism and denouncing Mr. Trumps response, and the presidents business advisory councils were disbanded.Chief executives may seem like unlikely ethical leaders; Wells Fargo, Equifax, Uber and many more companies have faced questions from Congress about practices that have harmed consumers and in some instances cost taxpayers billions of dollars.But companies have also been wading into moral debates for decades. General Motors and Pepsi pulled out of South Africa during the apartheid era. Apple, Disney and Xerox were early in extending health care benefits to gay and lesbian couples.Similar efforts by chief executives today recall an earlier era of corporate statesmanship, said Lee Drutman, a fellow at New America, a research and policy institute. A lot of these business leaders viewed a business as having a somewhat broader public mission.Now, he said, thanks to the rise, over the last 15 years, of the importance of social responsibly and social mission, there is a broad movement in business.AdvertisementEven Amazons much-publicized efforts to select a city for a second headquarters could, in a roundabout way, influence local policymakers. Given that the company is unlikely to set up shop in a state with socially conservative laws that might alienate some employees, Amazon could have an effect not just on prices but on what legislators pass, Mr. Chatterji said.Other examples of ambitious efforts by top executives to tackle social problems arent hard to find. Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, made an ill-fated attempt to reform the public schools of Newark, N.J. Elon Musk has audacious plans to build a futuristic high-speed transportation network connecting cities in the Northeast. And billionaires across the political spectrum — from Tom Steyer on the left to the Koch brothers on the right — are spending heavily to sway public policy to their liking.The wealthiest corporate titans are also using their philanthropy to shape public policy, in the United States and beyond. Microsofts co-founder Bill Gates, through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, is working on myriad initiatives that might plausibly be done by governments, including efforts to curb tobacco use, slow the spread of H.I.V. and improve education in Washington State.George Soros, through his Open Society Foundations, has been promoting democratic ideals around the globe. And Mr. Zuckerberg, through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, is working on ambitious long-term projects involving science, education and justice.There is a big difference, though, between supporting social causes and research and operating a sprawling public works system. Critics will contend that some of these efforts smack of arrogance, and that businesses ought to stay in their lane and focus on offering excellent products and services, not meddle in public policy.There is this hubris, thinking that they can do it better, Mr. Chatterji said.There is also a certain irony to the fact that Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan said the new company they had formed would be free from profit-making incentives and constraints.The profit motive, after all, is what leads to efficiency and innovation, according to conventional business school wisdom. Operating as a nonprofit flies in the face of the logic of the capitalist economy, Mr. Chatterji said.It most likely will take years to determine if the three companies can make good on their promise of building a better health care system. Even if they succeed, the rewards may be limited to their employees — a large figure, but a small portion of the American work force.Nonetheless, the companies push is among the most audacious efforts by the private sector to date, and Mr. Dimon did not shy away from the scope of their ambition.AdvertisementThe three of our companies have extraordinary resources, he said on Tuesday when the initiative was announced. Our goal is to create solutions that benefit our U.S. employees, their families and, potentially, all Americans.Follow David Gelles on Twitter @dgelles and LinkedIn.A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page BU1 of the New York edition with the headline: Businesses Step In To Fill a Public Void.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JASON ZINOMANFEB. 22, 2018
Soon after Marianne Ways arrived at her office one Monday morning this month, she called to check on sales for that nights performance of Butterboy, the weekly showcase of stand-up comics she produces at Littlefield in Gowanus, Brooklyn. Then she started worrying.Only 26 tickets sold. The space fits 250. That sucks, she said by phone, and not only for business reasons: a sparse crowd gets self-conscious and is hesitant to laugh. Ms. Ways, 37, has been putting together comedy shows long enough to know she would have to come up with a quick fix.Part of what makes New York the greatest city in the world to see live comedy is the large number of cheap, easily accessible and impressively curated live shows outside the clubs. These were once considered alt comedy; now some (Whiplash on Monday, Sweet on Tuesday) are institutions. Their hosts may get the applause, but the far less well-known bookers are the crucial players who establish the vision and quality control. To understand the art of her job, I followed Ms. Ways for one week, keeping in touch by email and phone to see what went into putting together a lineup.Ms. Ways is one of the most important gatekeepers in Brooklyns fertile stand-up scene, which is centered not in clubs, but in bars and performing spaces like Union Hall and Bell House. She first established her reputation in the borough in 2010, booking Hot Tub, which was created by the hosts Kristen Schaal and Kurt Braunohler on Monday nights. When that popular show moved to Los Angeles, Night Train, which she created with the host Wyatt Cenac, took over the slot. As soon as it ended in November (Mr. Cenac will have a show on HBO), she started Butterboy with three new hosts, Jo Firestone, Aparna Nancherla and Maeve Higgins. All of these became popular hits, sharing the same diverse aesthetic, progressive vibe and balance of famous names and new voices.AdvertisementMs. Ways — who grew up in west Pennsylvania more of a music fan, but became seduced by the comedy of the sketch series The State — now books three shows, including ones starring David Cross and another with Sasheer Zamata, but describes them as labors of love. She earned $10,000 from Night Train last year, and said Butterboy will probably bring in less. She makes her living from a company that puts on live events.AdvertisementShe had been trying to move away from headliners, drawing audiences based on her shows reputation as a home for stellar comedy. You dont need an hour special on HBO to be great, she told me the week before, and that is undeniably true. But sometimes, you do need someone with major credits to fill seats and avert disaster. Factoring in time needed for promotion, she had mere hours to track one down on this particular Monday.There is not only an art to putting together a lineup, but also a politics, especially now, when issues of representation (Ms. Ways always books at least two female comics) and sexual misconduct have roiled the comedy world. Should Louis C.K. and Aziz Ansari return to live stand-up, the first people confronted with a difficult choice will be bookers. Ms. Ways said she would check with her hosts, but probably wouldnt book Louis C.K., but likely would Mr. Ansari. Then she paused. I dont know, she said. I have very mixed feelings on his situation.Ms. Ways had already booked the core of her show a week before, with regulars including Seaton Smith, a reliably funny comic, and Eman El-Husseini, a lesbian Muslim stand-up with punchy, wry jokes about identity. She also signed up Leah Bonnema after seeing her perform at a festival, and a comic whom she had never seen, Chris Duffy, but who had come recommended by her hosts.Much of her time is spent figuring out the right order of comics, a process she describes with a strategic eye. Newcomers or comics who do particularly provocative work that might go wrong are slotted in the middle, and she tried to follow with someone who would kill. She knew Mr. Smith would deliver a crowd-pleasing set so she scheduled him last. She focused more on mulling over the right opener.Its essential to start the show with the strongest or second strongest comic, she said, preferably someone with high energy. Leah is more a storyteller, which might mean a slow build, so I wouldnt start with her, Ms. Ways said, preferring to begin with someone who gets laughs fast. That leaves Eman. She has great energy.The previous week she had checked her inbox for videos of young comics who could fill the guest spot, which was four minutes shorter than the other 10-minute sets. Two stand-ups were just O.K., but she really enjoyed a young comic named Mara Wiles and signed her up. Ms. Ways said she liked the balance: high and low energy, emerging and established, a range of demographics.But come Monday, what was still missing was a headliner. Her hunt began by scouring late-night television guest lists. Wanda Sykes, whom she has never booked, was in town for The Late Show With Stephen Colbert. Showcasing her would be a coup, but Ms. Ways reconsidered in light of the low presales: playing in front of a small crowd would be a terrible way to introduce Butterboy to Ms. Sykes. Then she turned to go-to stars. Jim Gaffigan had just performed last week at Butterboy. Mr. Cross, who has a baby girl with his wife, Amber Tamblyn, would probably be busy with child care (she tried anyway; no luck). She contacted Mr. Cenac, Michael Che, Todd Barry, Janeane Garofalo, Mike Birbiglia, Roy Wood Jr. and Phoebe Robinson.AdvertisementAs she does most weeks, she texted her friend Jeremy Levenbach, who books Whiplash at Upright Citizens Brigade, which generally showcases more headliners. Their brainstorm led her to contact Jon Glaser and John Hodgman, both unavailable.By 2 p.m. Monday, the day of the show, when she hoped to be promoting it online, Ms. Ways had heard only polite rejections, and started striking a different tone. She said her anxiety was fading as she accepted that her lineup was good enough. Minutes later, Mr. Cenac and Mr. Che said they couldnt do it, and Ms. Ways said, I havent struck out this much since I was on the softball team in third grade!Roy Wood Jr., a Daily Show correspondent and host of the Comedy Central series This Is Not Happening, had still not responded, but with four hours before the show, Ms. Ways thought a text might have more luck; she sent a message saying she needed star power. Within a minute, Mr. Wood responded that he was in. She had her social media intern, an aspiring booker herself, post the news on Facebook and Instagram. In the next hour, ticket sales rose to 46, still dangerously low.Ms. Ways arrived at Littlefield an hour early and ordered pizza for the comics, who earn $30 apiece for performing. She shares her cut of the door with the hosts. When the comics arrived, Ms. Ways greeted them warmly, a hurricane of energy, complimenting outfits, doling out hugs and cracking jokes to keep the mood light. Backstage she was relaxed. Out front, she was more tense, checking her phone and eying the crowd warily. I dont like to see these, she says, pointing out empty chairs, of which there were a few. With walk-ins, the final count was 103.Onstage, after Ms. Firestone bantered charmingly about her bat mitzvah with her co-host, Ms. Higgins (Ms. Nancherla was out of town), Ms. El-Husseini opened strong with honed religious material about being a Muslim married to a Jewish woman. Its much harder to convert to Judaism, which, she joked, had higher standards. Jesus Christ wasnt good enough, she added. Those are standards.Ms. Ways raised her cellphone to indicate the comic had two minutes left. She told her last joke and exited precisely on time. Shes a pro, Ms. Ways said.Mr. Duffy did a tight set, followed by Ms. Wiles, who was more hit or miss. Shell get there, Ms. Ways said. After a last-second addition — Yedoye Travis, who said his name translates to African-African dads from Florida — Mr. Smith got ready to go onstage. Mr. Wood was to follow him but had not shown up. Ms. Ways did not seem worried, and sure enough, just as Mr. Smith began, Mr. Wood walked backstage.Mr. Smith dipped his toe into sexual harassment material — All men are creepy until proven not creepy — to muffled response, then moved on.AdvertisementMr. Wood did some #MeToo material with more success, analyzing apologies from disgraced men. The only person who did it right was Bill Cosby, he said to dead silence. They hit him with allegations, and he went blind. The huge laugh built into a roar as the rest of the set went long, nearly 20 minutes. This night ended with a kill, and the sound in the room made it feel packed.At the show, Ms. Ways seemed relieved: I spend the day worrying to solve problems before they happen, she said.Her post-mortem the next day, after the final numbers came in, was more balanced, conceding that a fifth of the tickets were comps. Still, they laughed loudly. They were small, she said, but mighty.ButterboyMonday nights at 8 p.m. at Littlefield, 635 Sackett Street, Gowanus, Brooklyn; butterboycomedy.com.A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Comedy Is Hard. Booking Comics Is Harder.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVID GELLESFEB. 1, 2018
Can private businesses solve public policy problems better than the government? Its a question that has persisted for decades and taken on new resonance now that a career businessman is in the White House.There has never been a clear answer. For every sign of success — a smooth privatized toll road or a gleaming charter school — there have been obstacles revealing just how difficult public works can be.But companies havent stopped trying. Just this past week, the ambitions reached new heights when three of todays most successful business leaders said they would form an independent company aimed at lowering the burden that health care places on the economy while improving the system for their employees.In a brief statement that provided virtually no details, the chief executives of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase said they were fed up with the state of the health care system, and were convinced they could do better themselves.AdvertisementThe ballooning costs of health care act as a hungry tapeworm on the American economy, said Warren E. Buffett, the head of Berkshire Hathaway. Our group does not come to this problem with answers. But we also do not accept it as inevitable.AdvertisementJoining Mr. Buffett were Jeff Bezos of Amazon and Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan. Together, the three men have revolutionized industries, forged empires and navigated all manner of crises. But can they fix health care?In announcing they would try, they delivered an implicit rebuke of the complex and costly American health care system, suggesting that the best minds in business could do better.Companies are now thinking much more about how to solve larger social problems, said Aaron Chatterji, a professor at Duke Universitys Fuqua School of Business. When Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan, three leaders in their industries, looked around, they realized that health care is a big issue facing them all.Their efforts stem from a feeling that, with partisan bickering and constant campaigning consuming Washington, the onus is on businesses to fill the void left by an ineffective government.Timothy D. Cook, the chief executive of Apple, acknowledged recently that a new imperative was challenging corporations. Government has become less functional and isnt working at the speed that it once was, he told The New York Times last year. And so it does fall, I think, not just on business but on all other areas of society to step up.The notion that big business might shape government policy is nothing new, of course. Lobbyists have been working to sway lawmakers for decades, and the corporate world was an influential force in the tax overhaul passed last year.Yet for the most part, these efforts were narrowly aligned with a companys self-interest, usually in the form of lowering taxes and loosening regulations. And rarely have business leaders tried to assume operational control of a government function, let alone something as complex and unwieldy as health care.AdvertisementIn recent years, however, more chief executives have begun speaking out on issues that at first glance have little to do with the bottom line, including immigration policy, climate change and gay rights.Corporate leaders have banded together to protest laws targeting transgender and gay rights in Indiana, North Carolina and Texas. And last year, as President Trump rolled out strict immigration rules, executives spoke out against the effort, with some, like the Google co-founder Sergey Brin, joining protesters at airports.The lack of leadership on the national political level has left this vacuum, said Kathleen Clark, a professor at the Washington University Law school. Fortunately, there are some business leaders who see that theres a role for them to play.The most vivid expression of this new willingness to speak out came last summer after white supremacists marched on Charlottesville, Va., and Mr. Trump equivocated in his response to the violence.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a matter of days, top executives at the nations largest companies issued statements condemning racism and denouncing Mr. Trumps response, and the presidents business advisory councils were disbanded.Chief executives may seem like unlikely ethical leaders; Wells Fargo, Equifax, Uber and many more companies have faced questions from Congress about practices that have harmed consumers and in some instances cost taxpayers billions of dollars.But companies have also been wading into moral debates for decades. General Motors and Pepsi pulled out of South Africa during the apartheid era. Apple, Disney and Xerox were early in extending health care benefits to gay and lesbian couples.Similar efforts by chief executives today recall an earlier era of corporate statesmanship, said Lee Drutman, a fellow at New America, a research and policy institute. A lot of these business leaders viewed a business as having a somewhat broader public mission.Now, he said, thanks to the rise, over the last 15 years, of the importance of social responsibly and social mission, there is a broad movement in business.AdvertisementEven Amazons much-publicized efforts to select a city for a second headquarters could, in a roundabout way, influence local policymakers. Given that the company is unlikely to set up shop in a state with socially conservative laws that might alienate some employees, Amazon could have an effect not just on prices but on what legislators pass, Mr. Chatterji said.Other examples of ambitious efforts by top executives to tackle social problems arent hard to find. Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, made an ill-fated attempt to reform the public schools of Newark, N.J. Elon Musk has audacious plans to build a futuristic high-speed transportation network connecting cities in the Northeast. And billionaires across the political spectrum — from Tom Steyer on the left to the Koch brothers on the right — are spending heavily to sway public policy to their liking.The wealthiest corporate titans are also using their philanthropy to shape public policy, in the United States and beyond. Microsofts co-founder Bill Gates, through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, is working on myriad initiatives that might plausibly be done by governments, including efforts to curb tobacco use, slow the spread of H.I.V. and improve education in Washington State.George Soros, through his Open Society Foundations, has been promoting democratic ideals around the globe. And Mr. Zuckerberg, through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, is working on ambitious long-term projects involving science, education and justice.There is a big difference, though, between supporting social causes and research and operating a sprawling public works system. Critics will contend that some of these efforts smack of arrogance, and that businesses ought to stay in their lane and focus on offering excellent products and services, not meddle in public policy.There is this hubris, thinking that they can do it better, Mr. Chatterji said.There is also a certain irony to the fact that Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan said the new company they had formed would be free from profit-making incentives and constraints.The profit motive, after all, is what leads to efficiency and innovation, according to conventional business school wisdom. Operating as a nonprofit flies in the face of the logic of the capitalist economy, Mr. Chatterji said.It most likely will take years to determine if the three companies can make good on their promise of building a better health care system. Even if they succeed, the rewards may be limited to their employees — a large figure, but a small portion of the American work force.Nonetheless, the companies push is among the most audacious efforts by the private sector to date, and Mr. Dimon did not shy away from the scope of their ambition.AdvertisementThe three of our companies have extraordinary resources, he said on Tuesday when the initiative was announced. Our goal is to create solutions that benefit our U.S. employees, their families and, potentially, all Americans.Follow David Gelles on Twitter @dgelles and LinkedIn.A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page BU1 of the New York edition with the headline: Businesses Step In To Fill a Public Void.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
FEB. 1, 2018
Updated 8:04 a.m.Good morning on this gray Thursday.Were a city filled with HQties.Thats the nickname given to those who play HQ, the wildly popular trivia smartphone app that has been called the best worst thing on the internet.Twice daily, at 3 and 9 p.m. on weekdays (and once daily on weekends), as many as 1.6 million HQties across the country open the app for a live, 15-minute trivia run with the host Scott Rogowsky. Contestants who make it through all 12 questions — which become increasingly obscure and move so quickly that its nearly impossible to Google the answers — can win cash prizes.Some might be surprised to learn that the retro-themed trivia game, which resembles a 90s cartoon mixed with a scene from Alice in Wonderland, is actually filmed at a studio in SoHo. Another possible shock: Mr. Rogowsky, 33, who goes by Quiz Daddy on the app and now has a following across the globe, is from New York and was, until recently, a struggling comedian here.We asked HQs writing team to put New York Today readers to the test with some questions about the state we call home.Advertisement(Well share the results in our New York Today column on Friday. And this should go without saying: Be an honorable New Yorker, and dont use Google to look up the answers.)AdvertisementAs Quiz Daddy likes to say, quoting Phish at the start of every game: Lets get down to the nitty gritty; lets get this show on the road.By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, does not plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, does not violate anyones rights and is not libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to our Terms of Service.Thank you for taking the quiz! We'll let you know the results in Friday's New York Today column.Heres what else is happening:Those cloudy morning skies will deliver rain this afternoon.In the 40s by day, in the 20s by night.The rain is expected to change over to snow in the wee hours before tapering off early Friday morning, but little accumulation is expected.• The Justice Department moved to dismiss the remaining corruption charges against Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey. [New York Times]• MS-13 gang violence on Long Island was targeted in President Trumps State of the Union address, in which he said the gang had taken advantage of loopholes in immigration law. [New York Times]• A study of test scores across New York Citys public elementary schools found that the diversity within a school did not erase achievement gaps between white and minority students. [New York Times]• Widespread flooding in the 21 Club, the venerated Midtown Manhattan restaurant, will keep the business shut down for months. [New York Times]• Health care workers commutes have been hurt the worst by New York Citys deteriorating subway system. [New York Times]• Mayor Bill de Blasio, who has been consistently pro-labor, is now facing criticism over bargaining tactics with the carpenters union. [New York Times]Advertisement• Testimony in the federal corruption trial of Joseph Percoco, a trusted adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, showed how two Syracuse developers relied on him for favors. [New York Times]• Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a plan to spend $82 million for new boilers in public housing projects that have chronic heating outages. [New York Times]• Pregnant millennials embracing their baby bump have a shop on Bleecker Street in Manhattan to help them incorporate their pregnancy into their fashion style. [New York Times]• An underground cocktail bar in Manhattan pays tribute to Life magazine and its editors. [New York Times]• In an increasingly digital world, here are 15 Brooklyn businesses keeping it analog. [The Bridge]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• United Airlines turned away an emotional support peacock at Newark Liberty International Airport. [NBC]• Airbnb took away up to 13,500 units from the citys housing market, according to a new report. [metro.us]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: The Voyeurs Fate.• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Advertisement• NYC Restaurant Week continues with deals on three-course lunches ($29) and dinners ($42) at hundreds of restaurants across the city, through Feb. 9.• El Museo del Barrio and the School of Visual Arts host a panel discussion on elmuseo@SVA, an exhibition with the work of artists of the Caribbean diaspora, at the schools Chelsea Galleries. 6 p.m. [Free]• A screening of The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till, and a discussion with the documentary filmmaker Keith Beauchamp, at the Sheen Center in NoHo. 8 p.m. [$17, tickets here]• Writers from Late Night With Seth Meyers perform an improv comedy show at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Hells Kitchen. 9:30 p.m. [$9]• Looking ahead: On Friday, join Staten Island Chuck as the groundhog emerges from hibernation at the Staten Island Zoo. Gates open 6:30 a.m.; prediction at 7:30. [Free]• Devils host Flyers, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers host Maple Leafs, 7 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Were one week out from the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, but New Yorkers are starting early.The Empire State Winter Games begin today, giving more than 2,500 aspiring professional athletes the chance to compete at an Olympic venue — Lake Placid in the Adirondacks, home to the 1932 and 1980 Games.AdvertisementThats nearly five hours from New York City, but the festivities kicked off on Monday with a 330-mile torch relay that left from Battery Park and has since traveled along the Empire State Trail toward Lake Placid, in time for the opening ceremony this evening.Athletes will ski and snowboard as well as compete in sports such as skeleton, bobsled and broomball. Spectators can watch for free.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Letter of Recommendation By                     
JAMI ATTENBERG

FEB. 1, 2018
Facebook is so persistent and skillful at unearthing past versions of yourself that you would rather forget. A few weeks ago, it reminded me about a photo from the fall of 2016: Im in a train station outside Milan, waiting for a ride to a beautiful, small Italian town, and theres a fake, slightly annoyed smile on my face, even though I should be happy.But Im not, because Im in a great deal of physical pain, as per usual. It was as if my lower organs were stacked on top of each other, heavy as stones, and there was an unrelenting sense of fullness: intense pressure on my uterus and bladder, a swollen, dense feeling. I didnt question it. I just thought: This is the pain I have to live with in my life.Id had fibroids for several years. By the time I was 43, my uterus had turned into something like a floating, abandoned spaceship upon which alien life forces had attached themselves, wreaking havoc on its mainframe. I suffered through all the greatest gynecological hits: cramps, extra-long PMS and periods and excessive bleeding. It is no exaggeration to say that half my days were spent worrying about my menstrual cycle.In the past, my doctor had, on occasion, suggested I get a hysterectomy that would remove my uterus and the accompanying fibroids, in order to solve the problems I was having. But each time, I hesitated, and a handful of hesitations that take only a second added up to years of failing to make a decision. I was aware of what was going on inside of me — I had pain, I recognized it — but I could not bring myself to contend with it.AdvertisementThe reasons piled up: Secretly lodged somewhere in my psyche was the sense, however irrational and antiquated, that the ability to have babies felt relevant to my physical identity as a woman, though I have never actually wanted to have a child. My bare-bones freelancer health insurance meant that having the operation would have emptied out my bank account, and then some. (I had recently gotten out of debt, and I wasnt ready to be broke again just to feel a nebulous better.) I travel a lot for work, and there never seemed to be a right moment to take the six weeks off required for recovery. I, like most people, have a fear of extreme physical pain. But draped over all of those rationalizations was my most powerful and seductive weakness: denial. I was fine! I didnt even know what anyone was talking about! I was fine!AdvertisementSo instead I struggled through my existence in partial pain. The symptoms had built up over time, and I had simply grown accustomed to feeling bad. A lot of people spend their lives in pain, often because our upbringing or gender or religion or self-esteem decrees that we deserve to suffer through it, that we arent entitled to feel good — perhaps women more than most. Nearly our entire lives, from the first day we get our periods until menopause, we trade gestures of sympathy over menstrual cramps, a bond that is both heartening and depressing: Were destined to feel this way forever, so we might as well get used to it.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But then, through some confluence of events, a mental shift occurred in me. First, I signed a book deal, so I had a little money in the bank. Next, I moved to a new city, got new health insurance and a new doctor. During my first appointment, she felt around inside of me and instantly sensed trouble. Do you feel ... O.K.? she asked, before informing me that, among all the other problems of which I was already aware, I had a tipped uterus, which was likely the source of additional pain. Something about a complete strangers pointing out even more gynecological issues forced me to admit that in fact I was not O.K. I did not feel good, and I needed to fix it, desperately.That week, we scheduled the hysterectomy for just after the new year. Within a month, my uterus was gone. This thing that had tortured me for years had disappeared, in a snap. It took me six months to fully recover, but then, that was it: I hadnt understood I could just feel better.And then I couldnt stop feeling better. I felt so good that I nearly forgot what it was like to feel bad in the first place. For years, Id just accepted there would be times when my emotions and mood could be affected by the pain and hormones. There had often been a haziness that hung between my physical and emotional selves. Now a clearer and calmer version of me was in charge. The problem had been removed. I recognized I had the power to remove other things from my life that Id held onto for too long for all the wrong reasons, things that no longer worked and caused me pain or trouble. A leased apartment I hadnt lived in for a few years and had been renting out to a stranger? I closed up shop on it. The love letters I hadnt read in years but kept just because I liked the idea of being loved? I hadnt realized they were holding me back, so I tossed them unblinkingly. And these days I have coffee only with people I want to have coffee with and not people I feel as if I should, just because they asked nicely.Now I ask myself all the time: How do I want to feel today? (The answer is never bad.) Having a hysterectomy required me to let go of my fears and misdirected beliefs, yes, but also I had to arrive at a new awareness that I deserved to feel great. You can just cut out the thing that doesnt work. Now I know.Jami Attenberg lives in New Orleans. Her most recent novel is All Grown Up.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page MM28 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Hysterectomies .  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ISABEL KERSHNERFEB. 2, 2018
JERUSALEM — On a recent weeknight, about two dozen Israelis, mostly in their 20s, gathered in a Jerusalem basement to hear the story of an Eritrean man who is facing deportation.Like thousands of Eritreans, Frezgi Ketef Tehehaymanut, 27, fled his country to avoid the draft into slave-like national service, a crime punishable by death. He would return to Eritrea tomorrow, he said, but he feared he would end up under the ground.The meeting was one of many similar events taking place across the country in what has become a particularly Jewish backlash against the governments tough new deportation policy.Last month, the Israeli government offered some 38,000 migrants from Eritrea and Sudan a stark choice: $3,500 and a plane ticket to a third country in Africa, or jail.AdvertisementPetitions opposing the policy poured in from Israeli doctors, pilots, retired diplomats, professors, rabbis, architects and musicians, many arguing that a nation formed by refugees in the aftermath of the Holocaust has a special obligation to treat refugees with more compassion.AdvertisementIn a letter to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, 36 Holocaust survivors, many of them refugees from the ghettos and concentration camps of Europe, beseeched him to learn the lesson and not to expel Africans seeking asylum in Israel.As a country founded by refugees, said another letter signed by 850 Jewish clergy and delivered to Israeli embassies and consulates in the United States and Canada, and whose early leaders helped craft the 1951 International Convention on the Status of Refugees, Israel must not deport those seeking asylum within its borders.Like much of the Western world, Israel is grappling with how to balance its right to protect its borders and prevent illegal immigration with showing compassion and humanity. But the governments decision has struck a particular chord here and among Jews abroad since the modern state of Israel has served as a safe haven for Jews fleeing persecution and was largely built by immigrants.The issue is also testing what it means to be a Jewish state: to preserve its Jewish majority, or to be governed by Jewish values, including the ideal of tikkun olam, or repairing the world.Every country must guard its borders, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in announcing the policy last month. It is important that people understand that we are doing something here that is completely legal and completely essential.He cited the plight of residents of south Tel Aviv, where many of the migrants are concentrated. In the past, he has also said that the influx of Africans threatened Israels Jewish majority.Many of the solidarity events are taking place under the umbrella of a grass-roots movement, Stop the Deportation, which was started by students. In addition to the meeting in the basement studio of a Jerusalem yoga teacher, there was a gathering this week in a bar in Kiryat Shemona, a town on Israels northern border, and another in the southern city of Beersheba in the Negev desert.AdvertisementAnother initiative, Miklat Israel, Hebrew for Israel Sanctuary, and known informally as the Anne Frank Home Sanctuary movement, signed up about 500 Israeli families from scores of towns and communities willing to adopt asylum seekers and, if necessary, hide them in their homes.First conceived by Susan Silverman, a rabbi and the sister of the American comedian Sarah Silverman, the idea was partly inspired by the story of another Eritrean who was so moved by Anne Franks diary that he translated it into Tigrinya while in a camp in Ethiopia, then carried it with him on his journey to Israel, convinced that its people would receive him.We are exploding the myth that ordinary Israelis dont want them, said Rabbi Nava Hefetz, one of the groups leaders, adding that the small team of volunteers couldnt keep up with the flood of phone calls and emails.We are talking about the history of the Jewish people, she said, from the exodus from Egypt to the terrible tragedy of the Holocaust. Refugeedom is in our DNA. Seeking asylum is in our blood.Even secular Israelis have taken to citing biblical verses like Leviticus 19:34: The stranger who resides among you shall be to you as one of your citizens; you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt.And liberals hark back to the decision of Menachem Begin, the prime minister who brought Mr. Netanyahus right-wing Likud Party to power in 1977, to welcome several hundred Vietnamese boat people.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But Israelis are divided, with many others eager to see the departure of the Africans. Officials here routinely refer to them as infiltrators because they sneaked across the border from the Egyptian Sinai, and insist that the majority — young men of working age — are economic migrants, not refugees.Israel is too small and has its own problems, Israels justice minister, Ayelet Shaked, said in a Facebook post. It cannot serve as the employment agency for the African continent.Many, including the Ashkenazi chief rabbi of Israel, David Lau, and his father, Yisrael Meir Lau, a former chief rabbi and child Holocaust survivor, reject the comparisons with the Holocaust. The migrants, they note, are not being sent to extermination camps and their Israeli sympathizers will not be risking their lives by harboring them.AdvertisementAbout 60,000 African migrants have surreptitiously crossed into Israel over the once-porous border with Egypt since 2005, most of them Sudanese or Eritreans who cannot be sent back home because of international conventions that prevent the repatriation of asylum seekers to home countries where they could face persecution. The influx stopped in 2012, when Israel constructed a steel barrier along the 150-mile border with Egypt.Of the thousands of Eritreans and Sudanese who have filed asylum requests in Israel in recent years, only about 10 have received refugee status. Some Sudanese refugees from war-torn Darfur have been given a special humanitarian status but most of the other asylum requests have not been processed.At least 20,000 African migrants have since left Israel. Mr. Netanyahu said he had made it his mission to deport the rest. He and his ministers have alluded to secret understandings with third countries in Africa, without naming them.The migrants say the main destination is Rwanda, but the Rwandan government has denied signing any secret deal. It says its policy toward Africans in need of a home is one of open doors, but only to those who come voluntarily.Migrant and human rights organizations say many Africans who left Israel for Rwanda and Uganda did not find work or receive legal status. Many are said to have continued on their journeys, often putting themselves in grave danger.Interior Minister Aryeh Deri told a parliamentary committee this week that Israel had deported more than 5,000 non-African illegal immigrants since last year, proof that the government policy was not racist; more than 20,000 Ukrainians and Georgians have sought asylum in Israel in recent years.Under increasing public pressure, he clarified that the new policy would apply only to single African men who had not formally submitted an asylum request by Jan. 1. It would not apply to families or the roughly 5,000 children of asylum-seekers who had been born in Israel. The migrants have until April 1 to accept the cash and flight or face detention.Yonatan Jakubowicz, director of the Israeli Immigration Policy Center, an organization supportive of the governments arguments, said he thought that Israel had taken a very balanced position in looking for that middle ground, and that other countries could learn from it.In the Jerusalem basement, Mr. Tehehaymanut said he had initially hoped to go to Libya, and from there to Europe. But the Bedouin smugglers dropped his group off in the desert in the middle of the night and told them to walk straight ahead toward the lights of Israel.AdvertisementIsraeli soldiers received them with smiles, food and drink. We did not come to eat, Mr. Tehehaymanut said. Just to live.A version of this article appears in print on February 2, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Israel Moves to Expel Africans. Critics Say Thats Not Jewish.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Jonathan WolfeGood cloudy Tuesday morning to you.What is it about bribery that makes politicians hungry?Testimony yesterday in the federal graft trial of Joseph Percoco, a close adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, hung briefly on the word ziti, which the star witness said was how Mr. Percoco referred to bribes.Joe threw in this term ziti, which we used throughout the entire bribery scheme — a Sopranos reference, said the witness, Todd R. Howe.Last month, in the trial of the mayor of Allentown, Pa., the foodstuff — or was it a payoff? — in question was meatballs.The former mayor of Trenton called his illicit cash pizza, while a Maryland state senator craved lollipops, at $1,000 a pop, prosecutors said.In Chicago, politicians were caught on tape discussing the old standbys lettuce and Cheddar.Food makes sense as a cover word for money, said Robert A. Leonard, head of the forensic linguistics program at Hofstra University: Both are desirable, and food often sounds natural in regular conversation.The best code words are language that seem to mean something totally different than what it really means, but seems to fit into the context, said Mr. Leonard, who testifies as an expert language witness in criminal cases. Food is good because its quotidian.The magic word doesnt have to be a foodstuff. In a 1995 case, a former New York City transportation official prosaically referred to payoffs as commitments. Farther afield, in South Africa, the code phrase was Eiffel Tower; in the Democratic Republic of Congo it was making a whiskey; and in Lebanon a common remedy for unlined pockets is aspirin.Secret language often figures in perjury and bribery cases, Mr. Leonard said, because these are crimes that are often committed via the uttering of a word.Heres what else is happening:Cloudy with a chance of meatballs.And by meatballs, we mean snow. A flurry is possible this morning, but skies should become mostly sunny by this afternoon, with a high around 38.Snow, rain and sleet may fall tomorrow.• The Metropolitan Transportation Authority could drastically reduce its construction costs by rethinking how it manages projects, prioritizing efficiency over bureaucracy, according to a new report. [New York Times]• Joseph Percoco, once one of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomos closest aides, sought to actively sell his influence in Albany in two separate bribery schemes, witnesses testified. [New York Times]• Families for Excellent Schools, a charter-schools organization known for its battles with Mayor Bill de Blasio, said it was shutting down. [New York Times]• Police departments face new challenges not only fighting cyber offenses, but also keeping track of them, in part because of an outdated crime classification system. [New York Times]• Mayor de Blasio repeatedly rejected state lawmakers calls for the city to contribute more money to the deteriorating subway system. [New York Times]• Mayor de Blasio struck a new deal with the original developers of Willets Point, near Citi Field, to build 1,100 apartments for low- and moderate-income residents. [New York Times]• A police officer who saw a sergeant fatally shoot a mentally ill woman testified that the woman never swung a baseball bat at the sergeant, as he asserted. [New York Times]• Displaced Bowery tenants, some of whom are lodged at a nearby hotel, are threatening a hunger strike if building repairs arent complete by Wednesday. [Bowery Boogie]• Governor Cuomo signed an executive order banning state agencies from doing business with companies that discriminate. [NY1]• New Yorks public building costs are the most expensive in the world, a new study revealed. [New York Post]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Back-Seat Singer• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Start your day with a morning run at Fort Tryon Park in Inwood. 7:30 a.m. [Free]• Its National Frozen Yogurt Day. Pick up a free fro-yo at participating 16 Handles locations. Noon to 6 p.m. [Free, but you must download an app]• Play more than 100 games, and meet their developers, at Winter Play, at Microsoft in Midtown. 6 to 9 p.m. [$15]• Bring a blanket to an indoor screening of Rebel Without a Cause under the palm trees at Brookfield Place in Lower Manhattan. 7 p.m. [Free]• Devils at Senators, 7:30 p.m. (MSG+). Knicks host Bucks, 7:30 p.m. (MSG). Nets host Rockets, 7:30 p.m. (YES).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Are you in love with someone with opposing political views?If so, we want to hear about it.Ahead of Valentines Day, The New York Times is looking for couples whose relationship spans our countrys increasingly fractious partisan divide.If youd like to participate, tell us about your relationship by filling out this form here. If you can, include your responses on video and have your partner join you. If you would be willing to come to the studio at the Times building in Midtown to be filmed, let us know.Your responses could be used in a coming story.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.AdvertisementBy PATRICK BOEHLERFEB. 6, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Plunging stock markets, right-wing populists in Germany and Italy and our first article using augmented reality. Heres the news:• Stock markets around the world tanked further as the sell-off entered its second week.In a strange way, investors are nervous that the global economy is doing too well.If the momentary sputter turns worse, it could become awkward for President Trump, who has often claimed credit for rising share prices. (More on this in todays The Daily podcast.)Our Upshot columnist argues that the drop, so far, is less scary than it seems._____• Washington is consumed by partisan battles.A House committee voted to release the Democratic rebuttal to a Republican memo on surveillance abuse. President Trump, who earlier in the day had called some Democrats treasonous, has five days to decide to block its release.Advertisement(Above, Representative Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the committee, whom Mr. Trump assailed on Twitter.)AdvertisementMeanwhile, we learned that Mr. Trumps lawyers want him to refuse any interview request in the Russia investigation, which could set up a prolonged court fight.And Congress is careening toward another standoff as government funding is set to expire on Thursday._____• In Germany,  talks on forming a new coalition sputter on.Many fear that another coalition of conservatives and Social Democrats would give the far-right AfD party an opportunity to turn its gains in last years election into a sustained following.To achieve that, the party is  widening its blue-collar base and targeting unions. (Above, Guido Thorsten Reil, a miner who left the Social Democrats to become an AfD politician.)_____• The shooting of African immigrants by a far-right extremist in Italy over the weekend has laid bare widespread anti-immigrant anger, and how it has been exploited by the populist Northern League and its leader, Matteo Salvini.Mr. Salvini has successfully used the countrys growing economic discontent as a vehicle to reach voters in the south, the formerly secessionist partys onetime enemy territory.I like him because he puts Italians first, a woman told us in Ostia, a Roman seaside suburb. And I guess hes a fascist, too. What can you do?Advertisement_____• Even in famously egalitarian Scandinavia, motherhood exacts a price on careers.Despite generous social policies, women working full time are still paid 15 percent to 20 percent less than men, new research shows — a gender pay gap similar to that in the United States.And for the same main reason: Women spend more time on child rearing.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Saudi Arabia is plotting a shift from oil to renewables. Riyadh plans to build a $300 million solar farm that would generate enough electricity to power 200,000 homes.• Broadcom raised its bid for the rival chip maker Qualcomm to about $121 billion, piling pressure on Qualcomms leadership, which is fiercely opposed to what would be the tech industrys biggest-ever takeover.• A group of Silicon Valley technologists is banding together to challenge the ill effects of services provided by Facebook and Google, companies they helped build.• Virtual currencies have experienced a swift reversal of fortune over the last month as the extent of frauds and flaws in the industry has become increasingly evident.•  Heres a snapshot of global markets.• Salah Abdeslam, the sole surviving suspect in the 2015 attacks in Paris, used his first opportunity to speak at a trial in Belgium to suggest that he had been prejudged because he is a Muslim. [The New York Times]• In Syria, videos of rebels abusing a female Kurdish fighters corpse have cast a shadow on Turkeys allies in the battle for the Kurdish-controlled city of Afrin. [The New York Times]• The murder in Kenya of an American activist who exposed the illicit trade in ivory and rhino horns sent shock waves through East Africas wildlife circles. [The New York Times]Advertisement• A political crisis in the Maldives deepened, as the government declared a state of emergency and arrested Supreme Court justices and a former president. [The New York Times]• A letter detailing abuse that is said to have been given to Pope Francis has cast doubt on his commitment to zero tolerance on such crimes. [The New York Times]• In Britain, the decision to release John Worboys, convicted of a string of sexual assaults, has drawn fierce criticism of the countrys parole system. [The New York Times]• A Times Documentary profiles a rising white supremacist leader who depicts himself as an American patriot and Iraq war veteran. His narrative is built on deception. [The New York Times]• In France, President Emmanuel Macron is expected to meet with Corsican nationalists on a visit to the island meant to strengthen its ties to Paris. [Bloomberg]• I would not wish the U.S. medical system on anyone. That was one readers comment, sharing her experiences with Britains National Health Service. [The New York Times]• It snowed so much in Moscow that the Russian capital called a rare snow day. Expect travel disruptions elsewhere too, including in Spain and France. [Los Angeles Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Eggs travel smoothly from breakfast to lunch to dinner. And theyre easy to cook.Advertisement• This customizable quinoa and white bean soup doesnt need meat to taste good.• Are your hangovers getting worse with age? It may be because youre drinking less.• Our soccer correspondent writes about how local players in Europe bring a value to their clubs that cant be bought at any price. Above, Trent Alexander-Arnold of Liverpool.• Were introducing augmented reality to our coverage, just in time for the Winter Olympics. Try it out: Catch four Olympians, including an Austrian snowboarder, mid-action.• A hundred years ago today, British women gained the right to vote. Revisit the suffragist struggle in campaign posters.• Some chefs are discovering the subtleties of vinegar made from all kinds of things, including mushrooms and flowers.• Scientists have found that animals across the evolutionary spectrum can count, and some are even better at it than we are.Oh, what a flight.The Timess headline about the 1988 N.B.A. All-Star festivities said it all. The weekend belonged to Michael Jordan of the Chicago Bulls, widely considered the greatest basketball player of all time. He cemented his place in slam dunk history 30 years ago today.In the final round of the slam dunk contest, in which judges award competitors creativity, Jordan faced Dominique Wilkins of the Atlanta Hawks.AdvertisementIn one of his final dunks, Jordan dribbled from the far end of the court and leapt from the foul line, 15 feet from the basket. Back arched, legs trailing behind him, Jordan sailed through the air with one hand pushing the ball toward the basket. The judges awarded him a perfect score.The final score could have easily gone to Wilkins, but Jordan was performing in front of a hometown Chicago crowd, which surely had some influence on the slam dunk judges, and galvanized his All-Star teammates, to say nothing of their considerable effect on The Flying Machine himself, The Times reported. Above, another famous Jordan dunk from the competition.The next day, Jordan would go on to score 40 points in the All-Star Game.This was, Jordan said, a picture-perfect weekend.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Off the Menu By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 30, 2018
SIMON & THE WHALE First, the name. Gabriel Stulman, who owns Happy Cooking Hospitality, a restaurant company with several spots in the West Village, said he was inspired by all the whale-patterned gifts his toddler, Simon, had been receiving. Mr. Stulman also likes naming his restaurants for family members, but in the Freehand New York hotel, where he is running several properties, this applies only to this flagship. Theres a handsome, wood-paneled George Washington Bar, no relation, named for the grand 90-year-old hotels previous life as the George Washington. Simon & the Whale, with 76 seats and some outdoor tables to come, has an Arts and Crafts look from the designers, Roman & Williams, with Japanese Iroko wood, iridescent teal tiles, green tufted upholstery and brass piping. The chef, Matt Griffin, has created an American menu with several raw seafood starters, followed by simpler options like a fish sandwich with coleslaw, and spaghetti with clams, and a more demanding roast guinea hen. Mr. Stulman is also running Studio, an all-day restaurant on the hotels second floor, which opened this month. In addition to the Stulman businesses, a branch of Smile to Go will take up residence in a street-level storefront, and another bar, the Broken Shaker, will be installed on the roof. (Opens Friday): 23 Lexington Avenue (23rd Street), 212-475-1920, freehandhotels.com.TENDER GREENS This popular California chain of casual counter-service restaurants, with its approach to fine dining on a budget, is staking its claim to New York. Erik Oberholtzer, the co-founder and a former chef, takes the uncommon approach of having a resident executive chef with a team that can devise menus and prepare ingredients for each site. Having tried it on the West Coast, the restaurateur Danny Meyer was impressed enough with the quality of the food that his Union Square Hospitality Group became a minor investor. In the airy white tile and copper-trimmed New York branch, the chef will be Peter Balistreri, who will deviate somewhat from other outlets with more daily specials, like pasta dishes. A lobster salad and a green market salad will be served only in New York. Some of the menu changes daily. Though the name makes the chain sound like a spot for salads, most of the items that are the backbone of the menu, including sandwiches and plates (not bowls), depend on a hearty component. There are no waiters, but runners will bring food to those who opt to eat in. Beer and wine are served. (Monday): 900 Broadway (20th Street), 212-339-7425, tendergreens.com.UNCLE JACKS MEAT HOUSE Willie Degel, the television personality who developed the Uncle Jacks Steakhouse chain, has added this location in Astoria, Queens. Here, carnivores can select meats that are either prime or choice, with a price difference of more than $15. This branch has more burgers and sandwiches than Mr. Degels other restaurants. Downstairs in the building, which Mr. Degel decorated to look like an old meat warehouse, is a speakeasy-style bar: 36-18 Ditmars Boulevard (37th Street), Astoria, Queens, 917-745-1553, unclejacksmeathouse.com.PATENT COFFEE, PATENT PENDING What is a simple basement coffee shop, Patent Coffee, during the day, has a rear door and dresses up in the evening to become Patent Pending, a cocktail lounge where drinks and sandwiches, including fried chicken and grilled cheese, are served. (Wednesday): 49 West 27th Street, 212-689-4000, patentpendingnyc.com.AdvertisementWHOLE FOODS MARKET 365 This branch of the fairly new budget division of the Whole Foods chain will occupy 30,000 square feet on two levels. It will include a coffee bar and bakery from Orwashers, a Juice Press juice bar, an outlet for plant-based burgers from Next Level Burger, and beer and wine on tap. (Wednesday): 292 Ashland Place (Lafayette Avenue), Fort Greene, Brooklyn, 718-290-1010, 365bywholefoods.com.AdvertisementMAJORDOMO David Chang has opened this restaurant in Los Angeles on the edge of Chinatown. The aesthetics nod to various Asian countries, and the food goes deeper in that direction: bing bread dressed with assorted toppings, Korean rice balls, crispy pork belly with green papaya, and spicy bo ssam. The executive chef, Jude Parra-Sickels, a native of Los Angeles who worked at Momofuku Ssam Bar in New York, also offers plates of peppers stuffed with sausage, and grilled whole rockfish: 1725 Naud Street (Wilhardt Street), Los Angeles, 323-545-4880, majordomo.la.POKÉ JUNKÉ The poke bowl takes on some new trappings, like a base of quinoa and brussels sprouts and mix-ins and toppings like sweet potatoes and crunchy corn. There are set bowls and an option to pick your own ingredients. (Monday): 38 West 38th Street, 917-265-8882, pokejunke.com.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.BURGER 101 Peter Romano, a former produce buyer at Fairway, has opened a tiny, straightforward spot for burgers. Most are beef, though there are also turkey and vegetarian options: 270 Bleecker Street (Morton Street), 917-261-6478, burger101ny.com.DOMINIQUE CRENN, the acclaimed San Francisco chef, has organized a series of Tuesday evening dinners to showcase the work of a dozen female chefs, including Elizabeth Falkner, Einat Admony and April Bloomfield from New York. The Women of Food dinners, with seatings from 5 to 9 p.m. each evening, will be held at Petit Crenn, 609 Hayes Street, the more informal sibling of her Michelin-starred Atelier Crenn. The dates are March 27, April 24, May 29, July 31, Sept. 25 and Nov. 27. American Express platinum card holders can book tickets, $250 each, starting Thursday at 10 a.m. Eastern Time at 800-525-3355. For others, tickets will be sold starting Friday at 10 a.m. Eastern Time through Resy, a partner in this enterprise, resy.com/women-of-food.SHANE MCBRIDE left his job as executive chef at Balthazar two weeks ago and has taken that position at Maysville in NoMad.ROSIO SANCHEZ, the Chicago native who is the chef and founder of two high-profile Mexican restaurants in Copenhagen, will be in New York for a one-day collaboration with Shake Shack. She will prepare a breakfast taco with roasted pork belly, cured egg yolk, avocado and hot sauce; and Chickn de Sanchez, a crispy chicken breast sandwich, at the Madison Square Shake Shack on Tuesday. These specials will be served until they run out.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misstated the cross street for Tender Greens. It is 20th Street, not 21st Street.An earlier version of this article misstated the phone number where American Express platinum card holders can book tickets for the Women of Food dinners organized by Dominique Crenn. It is 800-525-3355.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
JAN. 31, 2018
Updated 8:13 a.m.Good morning on this ice-cold Wednesday.In Manhattan, beneath a graveyard where Mayor Edward I. Koch, John Jacob Astor and more than 100 other New York City notables are buried, there lies a crypt.And in that crypt — a cavernous space with dark corners, vaulted ceilings and the ashes of past parishioners — you may listen to classical music.Crypt Sessions, which begins tomorrow underneath the Church of the Intercession, by Trinity Church Cemetery in Washington Heights, was started by the musician Andrew Ousley, who has also produced classical and opera concerts in a metal works factory in Gowanus.Its a space that you just dont expect to find in New York, he said of the 2,000-square-foot crypt. Youre running around outside — youve got bars, restaurants, et cetera — and you go, out of nowhere, through this cemetery and into a space that is just completely transformative.AdvertisementThe recitals, which Mr. Ousley described as communion-like, not religious, put a new spin on old masters like Mozart and Beethoven.AdvertisementThe goal is to shift some of the preconceptions that people have around classical music, some of the negative stigma around the concert experience, he said.Of course, taking classical music out of the concert hall has been done before in the city. Over the years, string quartets, pianists and other musicians have played classical music in these and other unconventional venues around town:• On subway platforms• On a coal barge by the Brooklyn Bridge• At the Bronx Zoo• At Madame Tussauds in Times Square• In the Arms and Armor Court at the Met• At homeless shelters and soup kitchens• In the Hall of Saurischian Dinosaurs at the American Museum of Natural HistoryThe Thursday evening crypt concert is sold out, but you can join the mailing list for tickets to the next performance, in March, which will go on sale Friday morning.Heres what else is happening:Chilly, but lovely.Sunny skies and a high around 35 — a lucky break for early risers who got to see the super blue blood moon this morning just before 6 a.m.• Kevin Corbett, a top executive at a global construction and engineering firm, will become the next executive director of the struggling New Jersey Transit. [New York Times]• The Republican state senator John A. DeFrancisco is planning to vacate his seat to challenge Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in the governors race. [New York Times]Advertisement• Citing strong support from surveyed residents, Hobokens mayor said he will move forward with plans of changing a waterfront industrial site into a park, despite opposition from a ferry company. [New York Times]• A federal judge in Manhattan ordered the immediate release of the immigrant rights activist Ravi Ragbir, calling his detention unconstitutional and cruel. [New York Times]• With over 3,000 people hospitalized, this years outbreak of influenza is proving to be the worst in nearly a decade. [New York Times]• Columbia University announced that it would not bargain with graduate students who voted to unionize, sending the case to federal court. [New York Times]• Prosecutors in the case of a New York City police sergeant who fatally shot a mentally ill woman say that the officer ignored his training, which led to the chaos resulting in her death. [New York Times]• The State Senate revised its policy on sexual harassment, adding a sentence that says false accusations are a serious act. [New York Times]• New York University, along with other colleges, is offering refuge to students from Puerto Rico whose college careers were interrupted as a result of Hurricane Maria. [New York Times]• A special election is needed to fill the State Senate seat left vacant by George Latimer, a Democrat, who won the race for Westchester County executive. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• In About New York, the columnist Jim Dwyer describes the troubling effects of a law in the title insurance industry. [New York Times]Advertisement• New Yorkers will be able to see the blood moon early Wednesday morning, when the moon will turn a copper-like color around 6 a.m. [New York Times]• Neighbors of a man who was fatally shot by police in the Bronx are eager to view the body cam footage; they are suspicious of the way the victim was subdued. [PIX 11]• Mayor Bill de Blasio walked the red carpet at the Grammys, but he was not allowed entry because of city ethics codes barring him. [New York Post]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Lesson in Select Bus Service• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• NYC Restaurant Week continues with deals on three-course lunches ($29) and dinners ($42) at hundreds of restaurants across the city, through Feb. 9.• Wild Medicine in the Tropics, an exhibition exploring the healing power of exotic plants, at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. [Prices vary]• Dr. Tenzin Dakpa leads a workshop on Tibetan astrology and divination, exploring health and auspiciousness, at the Rubin Museum of Art in Chelsea. 7 p.m. [$20]• Residents of the five boroughs can receive a 40 percent discount on tickets to the Off Broadway hit Blue Man Group, at Astor Place Theatre in NoHo. Times and prices vary.Advertisement• Islanders at Maple Leafs, 7:30 p.m. (MSG+). Nets host 76ers, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks at Celtics, 8 p.m. (NBCSB).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Our local rinks — or a movie about a certain figure skater — may have recently reacquainted you with the grace, beauty and occasional disasters of ice skating.Ice skating, it turns out, goes way back in the city.It began with a colonial canal, in the vicinity of what we now know as Broad Street in Lower Manhattan, which became a popular skating rink for Dutch and English settlers.Nearby ponds were similarly repurposed, long before Central Park became a celebrated skating destination in the late 19th century.The popularity of the pastime, and the number of rinks, grew as technology advanced. The Zamboni and tractors with ice scrapers were invented, replacing horse-drawn ice-cleaners, in the first half of the 20th century. The beloved Rink at Rockefeller Center opened in 1936.New York on Ice: Skating in the City, a new exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, explores these developments and more. Tonight, skating experts look forward, not back, exploring the future of skating in the city.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Wine School By                     
 ERIC ASIMOV
 
FEB. 1, 2018
The word varietal is among the most misused in wine.Many people think of it as a synonym for grape, as in, What varietals are in that wine? Not to be pedantic, but that is wrong. Varietal is not a noun, it is an adjective. One may properly refer to a varietal wine, like a cabernet sauvignon or a chardonnay, in which the wine is made with a dominant grape variety.This distinction pertains directly to our most recent topic, California grenache, in which we had one varietal wine, made entirely out of grenache, and two blends, in which grenache was one of several varieties in the wine.Here at Wine School, we try not to be sticklers, but we do feel compelled to be accurate, if not exact. This is difficult when considering the leeway that California offers in its labeling rules, which require that a varietal wine contain at least 75 percent of that particular grape. In other words, a wine can still bear the varietal label grenache even if other grapes account for 25 percent. But if the blend includes less than 75 percent of grenache, it cannot be called by the name of the grape.Before 1978, when that rule was enacted, a California wine could be called grenache or pinot noir if it contained just 50 percent of that grape. That offered too much wiggle room for winemakers to add inferior varieties.AdvertisementThen, the federal government increased the required proportion to 75 percent, with states having an option to raise it even further. In Oregon, the rule is 90 percent, with the exception of cabernet sauvignon, which, because it is historically blended with other grapes, remained at 75 percent.AdvertisementThe Old World, for the most part, did not label its wines varietally, though certainly exceptions are easy to find — Alsace is an example. In France, it is understood that Chablis will taste different than Vouvray does, and those qualities were associated with the places. So no need to label the Chablis as chardonnay and the Vouvray as chenin blanc.But midcentury California lacked the same longstanding geographical traditions that dictated a wines character. Often, California winemakers appropriated European geographical designations, calling their wines names like Chablis, Rhine wine, Chianti and Burgundy.This did not sit well with Europeans or with American wine lovers, and some, like the importer and writer Frank Schoonmaker, urged California producers to identify their wines by grape instead. This, it was thought, would ensure that consumers knew what they were buying, while eliminating the inappropriate use of geographical references.From the 1970s onward, this has become the dominant identification for American wines. Its hard for many Americans nowadays to conceive of any other preferable method. Indeed, European producers who want to compete in the global marketplace, especially for inexpensive wines, have fought for the right to label their wines varietally.This all leads to our topic: California grenache. Of the three wines I recommended, only one is labeled grenache, the 2016 Les Enfants Terribles from Dashe in the Dry Creek Valley. The other two, the 2015 Jolie-Laide Rossi Ranch Sonoma County and the 2016 Donkey & Goat California Gallivanter, are blends.One, the Jolie-Laide, gives an indication of its blend on the label, with grenache and syrah written in big letters, and viognier and muscat dAlexandria in a subordinate font. But the Donkey & Goat does not list any grapes on its label, and information was not easy to obtain. This led to some confusion.The 16 Donkey & Goat, referred to as a red blend, contains no grenache, said one reader, Caroline Moore of Eugene, Ore., who wondered why it was included.AdvertisementActually, the Gallivanter does contain quite a bit of grenache, though I understand why some curious readers thought otherwise. In previous years, the blend was completely different; in 2015, pinot noir and syrah were used. But Jared Brandt, an owner of Donkey & Goat, told me that the blend was changed in 2016. That year, it was made with a plurality of merlot and a sizable percentage of grenache, along with syrah, mourvèdre and a few others for fining tuning, he said.Mr. Brandt did not want to detail exact percentages. Specificity is something we are trying to get away from, he said. As winemakers, we think that blends are often more complex and pleasing.Blending has a long and honorable tradition. In the old days, before winemakers had the science and technology to manipulate wines, having a palette of grapes with varying characteristics could do the trick.In Bordeaux, the more tannic cabernet sauvignon could be just the thing to give spine to the often soft merlot. In Côte-Rôtie, a little bit of viognier may be added to syrah to elevate the aromas. Grapes rich in pigment, like alicante bouschet or the appropriately named colorino, have often been used to add visual depth to red wines deemed too pale by winemakers.Blending grapes is a more natural, nuanced method of making up for deficiencies than, say, dumping in a bag of tartaric acid or powdered tannins. Its also why it can be more difficult to make a mono-varietal wine like Burgundy, where, except in very rare circumstances, the red grape must be pinot noir and the white chardonnay. In those cases, winemakers hope that the same grapes grown in different places, even in different rows of the same vineyard, will contain all the desired characteristics to make a complete wine.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Grenache is among those grapes that have historically been blended. Its the dominant variety in Châteauneuf-du-Pape, but seven other red grapes are permitted, and the vast majority of the wines (with some exceptions, like the highly coveted Château Rayas) are blends.The 2016 Dashe, made entirely of grenache, was fascinating. It was balanced in its own right, packed with red fruit flavors, which were initially a bit jammy but tightened with exposure to air, becoming stonier.Yet fruitiness was the dominant character, and, as someone who does not generally gravitate to powerfully fruity wines, I couldnt help but wonder whether a blend might have diminished the berry-flavored wallop.It drew contrasting reactions. Some readers, like William Barnier of Sonoma County — who drank the 2015 Dashe and is perhaps used to California wines with less acidity — found it a bit austere, though he liked it with a wild king salmon fillet.AdvertisementMartin Schappeit of Forest, Va., likened it to strawberry shortcake, and Ferguson of Princeton, N.J., said she loved it.The 2015 Jolie-Laide — with its blend of grenache and syrah, and tiny amounts of the aromatic white grapes viognier and muscat — seemed like a more complex mouthful, with the bright grenache fruit given depth by the dark, spicy syrah. It was earthy, lightly tannic and altogether intriguing.The 2016 Donkey & Goat was lithe, juicy and focused, with precise flavors that balanced fruit with earth and energy. Some readers noted this quality. Dan Barron of New York called it vibrant and electric.These three wines are obviously too small a sample for sweeping generalizations, but that will not stop me from offering a few thoughts. For one thing, I thought the three wines affirmed the traditional wisdom of using other grapes to harmonize with grenache. The 100-percent grenache Dashe was a fine, pure wine, but it seemed less complete than the other two. Would blending have given it more depth and a wider spectrum? Maybe.The tasting also underlined a deficiency in the labeling rules, which perhaps encourages winemakers to reach that 75 percent threshold so they can give the wine the easier-to-market varietal label. You could argue that California merlot suffered qualitatively as winemakers often used too high a percentage of the grape in their blends simply so they could call it merlot. Only in a very few places, like the Right Bank of Bordeaux, can complete wines be made with that much merlot.In California, it will not be easy to get away from the varietal label, as Mr. Brandt of Donkey & Goat knows. He is often asked which grapes are in a blend when they are not specified on the bottle.I like to say that it is whatever they want it to be, he said. It has been an uphill battle.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Write to Eric Asimov at asimov@nytimes.com, and follow him on Twitter: @EricAsimov.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Grapes Often Need Wiggle Room.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By VIVIAN YEEFEB. 18, 2018
A child is shot to death. Maybe at school, maybe at the movies. It is all over TV, all over Twitter, just like the last mass shooting.Then the cameras go away, and the parents are left in a wilderness of heartbreak. They do not know how to plan a funeral, where to get a therapist. Theyre not aware that scammers will try to fund-raise off their grief, that conspiracy theorists will question their tragedy, or that — hard to believe — they might, eventually, be O.K.But lots of people do know.When we had this happen to us, had our daughter slaughtered, we didnt know what to do, or what was going to happen next, said Sandy Phillips, whose 24-year-old daughter, Jessica Ghawi, was one of the 12 killed in the movie theater shooting in Aurora, Colo., in 2012. We didnt want to live. It was horrific. And nobody else understood, except other survivors.So it is that Ms. Phillips and her husband, Lonnie Phillips, are raising money to travel to Parkland, Fla., where the Phillipses will quietly let the families of 17 of Americas latest victims of mass gun violence  know that they are there to listen, to advise, to hug, to cry, and, perhaps, to recruit them to the ranks of the most committed gun-control activists in the country.AdvertisementThe mass shootings of recent years, the proliferation of grief from rural Oregon to the tip of Florida, have forced hundreds of family members into an unwanted fellowship. Veterans like the Phillipses serve as guides in the immediate aftermath, introducing the bereaved of Sandy Hook to those of San Bernardino and the parents of Virginia Tech to those of Roseburg, in a loose but growing network.AdvertisementSome mourn in private. Some confront politicians, join gun-control groups and flock to rallies. But whether they turn to advocacy or not, many gravitate toward one another, checking on each other by Facebook or phone whenever another gunman strikes.In a gun-control debate that often splinters along ideological lines, no one speaks more powerfully than those who survived a high-profile shooting, or the families of those who did not. The power of their testimonials goes beyond their authenticity: They, unlike politicians and advocates, can usually avoid the accusation that they are politicizing a tragedy.Recognizing the emotional heft of such stories, groups like the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence  and Everytown for Gun Safety often make themselves available to survivors and victims families in the aftermath of mass shootings, sometimes even paying for them to travel to meet other survivors and advocates or to attend rallies, hearings and meetings with politicians. Everytown, the group founded and funded by the former New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, runs a network of about 1,500 family members and shooting survivors who are trained in activism, including many who were affected not by mass shootings but by the smaller ones that occur daily.They join a long tradition of families who have turned private heartbreak into public advocacy. There is Mothers Against Drunk Driving, which has successfully shifted public awareness around drunken driving and pushed for tougher laws. There is John Walsh, who became a well-known anti-crime TV personality after his son was kidnapped and killed. There are the parents of people killed by undocumented immigrants, who have seen their campaign against illegal immigration taken up by President Trump.The difference is that mass-shooting survivors have yet to win any major victories on the federal level. So they do what they can, hoping that when the next mass shooting happens, more people will take to their cause.The more people that are affected in some way, the more people care; yeah, thats what its going to take, said Jenna Yuille, whose 54-year-old mother, Cindy Yuille, was one of two people shot and killed at the Clackamas Town Center outside Portland, Ore., in December 2012. Its horrible, but thats part of what its going to take.Ms. Yuilles mother died three days before the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people were killed, 20 of them first graders. The gun-control debate was suddenly everywhere, and Ms. Yuille, encouraged by a friend, began to speak up. She testified in support of background-check legislation in Oregon and got involved with the Everytown Survivor Network. Ms. Yuille now works for Americans for Responsible Solutions, an advocacy group founded by former Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who was shot outside an Arizona supermarket in 2011, and her husband, the retired astronaut, Capt. Mark E. Kelly.AdvertisementAt an Everytown training event in the spring of 2015, Ms. Yuille met Erica Lafferty, the daughter of one of the Newtown victims, Dawn Hochsprung, Sandy Hooks principal. They were around the same age; their mothers had died three days apart. The connection was instantaneous.When they heard about the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Wednesday — Ms. Yuille in a text from her boyfriend, Ms. Lafferty when she glanced at CNN — Ms. Yuille texted Ms. Lafferty to check on her.They felt the same, they said: Tired.Is it bad that were feeling so numb? Is it bad that I havent cried? Ms. Lafferty asked Ms. Yuille on Friday, during a joint interview. Because I havent.Same, said Ms. Yuille, 29. I know there are other people, especially in Oregon, that see me as a leader on this issue, and being a spokesperson on this issue, so I worry about that. I dont want to let people down.Exactly, said Ms. Lafferty, 32, who works for Everytown. Like, if I slow down, am I going to disappoint anyone? Am I going to disappoint myself?Many families, of course, do not want to be the faces of anything. They want to struggle in quiet, if not quite in peace. Some of the families of the Newtown victims have never spoken publicly about their ordeal. And some family members, Ms. Phillips said, continue to support gun rights.Soon after the Sandy Hook shooting, Mark Mattioli, whose son James was killed at the school, testified that legislators should focus on mental health support instead of gun control. He also spoke at a National Rifle Association news conference to praise the groups school safety proposals.But a large and growing number of families who want gun laws strengthened have chosen to seize the platform the media offers in the wake of a shooting and never to relinquish it. One man who lost his son in the Columbine High School shooting almost two decades ago, Tom Mauser, is still deeply involved in gun-control efforts in Colorado.AdvertisementPeople who are affected in a personal way become lifelong dedicated volunteers to this, said Robert Bowers Disney, the vice president for organizing at the Brady Campaign. It just fundamentally changes peoples lives and experiences.The Phillipses have been to the scene of almost every major shooting since their daughter died, usually letting local authorities and charitable organizations know that they are there if families need them. In Florida, they are planning to offer to connect the families of the teachers killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School to the daughter of a teacher killed at Columbine in 1999.They may not be wanting to talk, but when you tell them, I lost my daughter in the Aurora theater massacre, theyre like, Oh … my God, Ms. Phillips said. Its that initial, Oh, you get this.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.They offer advice on grim matters like psychological treatment (you dont need a grief counselor, they say; you need a trauma therapist) and how to fend off scammers who pretend to raise money for families, only to keep it for themselves.Increasingly, they have had to warn people about the online trolls who will inevitably inundate them with claims that the shooting was a government hoax.Some people take months to get in touch. Others, angry, want to talk about activism even before they bury their loved one. One man in Las Vegas who had lost his wife in the country music festival shooting knew no one else in town. So, while he waited for his wifes body to be released, he turned to Lonnie and Sandy Phillips. They are still talking.One of the first people the Phillipses spoke to after beginning this work was Nicole Hockley, whose son, Dylan, was killed at Sandy Hook Elementary.Ms. Hockley waited a month to meet with the Phillipses, and even then, she wondered if it was too soon. It can also be scary to potentially see your future self from a path that you didnt choose, she said. But also knowing that other people have survived and have found ways to keep walking forward — that can help as well.AdvertisementMs. Hockley, the co-director of the anti-gun-violence group Sandy Hook Promise, now tries to let the families of each successive wave of shooting victims know that they can lean on her for support when they are ready. She is careful to put aside her political agenda in those conversations, she said, not wanting to exploit their grief.Ms. Hockley heard about Wednesdays Parkland shooting while on a work trip to Los Angeles. She crumbled as she learned that it was a school.By Thursday, she was on a plane to Florida.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Old Members of a Grim Club Console New Ones.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAMIEN CAVEJAN. 31, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter. Want to receive it by email? Sign up here.______I wrote this week about some scenarios that could become illegal if Australia approves espionage legislation introduced in December. Then, on The Drum on Wednesday night, I talked more about Australias tolerance for a lack of government transparency.But its not exactly a subject for live television — at least not with me explaining it — so I thought Id return to the issue here in this weeks newsletter.First a bit of context: Australia is not alone in trying to clamp down on information. Japan passed a special secrets law in 2014, over widespread opposition; the United Kingdom has been looking at how to tighten its controls with longer prison sentences; and American investigations into government leaks have increased since Sept. 11, tripling under President Trump.AdvertisementCountries like Turkey, Cambodia, China and Cuba have also made a habit of creating and enforcing laws that allow for maximum control over government information.AdvertisementAt a time of rising nationalism worldwide, national security has effectively become a catchall category — a legitimate concern expanded to include documents, digital communication and political issues that may not have much to do with national security.Sometimes it takes a bit of luck — a pair of filing cabinets filled with government documents showing up at a used furniture store in Canberra, for example — just to see what kinds of things end up getting classified. And as we now know from The Cabinet Files, a lot of it ends up being about politics, not security.As Gaven Morris, the news director of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, put it: Consistently, weve seen overreach where governments seek to suppress information because it is embarrassing, not because there is a genuine security risk.But there are actually several other areas of public life in Australia that make journalism more difficult, or that reveal the degree to which this country tolerates a lack of transparency.A few examples:• Campaign FinanceAustralias campaign finance system is riddled with loopholes and delayed disclosures.At the federal level, it takes more than six months (up to 19 months in fact) for the public to learn how much parties have raised and from whom. Donors are identified only if they have contributed more than 13,500 Australian dollars, or about $10,000, which means individuals and corporations can anonymously make multiple donations without the public knowing. At the same time, Australian politicians are not required to explain what they do with the money.Compare that to Norway, where 74.4 percent of the money used in political campaigns came from government subsidies, with clear and accessible disclosure about contributions.Advertisement• Suppression OrdersAustralias courts routinely prohibit reporting on certain aspects of criminal cases. While legal scholars maintain that suppression can be valid at times, Australian experts are growing increasingly concerned about its overuse.Jason Bosland, a law professor at the University of Melbourne, has been at the forefront in researching the issue. He has concluded that the many orders lack legal foundation and go beyond what is necessary or in the public interest.For example, there is a major case of global interest working its way through the courts now. Its subject to a suppression order, and I cannot legally tell you about it.In other cases, courts have ordered that already published journalism be removed from Australian news sites, even though the information in them could be found elsewhere — undermining public trust in both journalism and the justice system.• Defamation Without any equivalent to the American First Amendment, freedom of speech in Australia is more negotiable and often subject to litigation.Suing for defamation is relatively easy in Australia, with presumptions favoring those who sue. Journalists, media organizations — and increasingly anyone who publishes on social media platforms — routinely lose in court or expect to lose and settle. The costs can be high, even prohibitive, stamping out some stories before they are ever written.Dont get the idea that the defamation field is balanced. It is heavily weighted in favor of plaintiffs, wrote Peter Bartlett and Sam White, two well-known media lawyers, in a recent press freedom report. (Full disclosure: Peter is our lawyer). The vast majority of cases are settled, they wrote, not on the merits of the claim, but on a purely commercial basis. The cost of going to judgments is just too great.What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Now, it may be that there are strong arguments for restricting information and limiting journalism — arguments that I, as a journalist, may have a harder time fully agreeing with.AdvertisementBut regardless of whether you think our tribe is full of sensationalists to be protected against or heroes to be lauded, its worth asking: Why are governments increasingly so insecure about letting us all see what they are up to?As my colleagues Max Fisher and Amanda Taub from the Interpreter recently asked: Is there something wrong with democracy, something that has made its principles and freedoms lose their appeal?As always, your thoughts are welcome, in our Facebook group and by email: nytaustralia@nytimes.com.On that happy note, here are some examples of journalism worth fighting for, and smiling at, along with a weekly recommendation that crosses generational lines.______Dont miss this blockbuster scoop from our Washington team, which opens with an argument in the West Wing — a confrontation, they write, that marks the first time Mr. Trump is known to have tried to fire the special counsel.______Cape Towns water supply is running dangerously close to empty. Within months, taps in homes and businesses will be turned off. The citys four million residents will have to line up for water rations at 200 collection points. And the police are not expecting peace and calm.It almost sounds like science fiction, but its really just science: climate change.______I dont think I can improve on the subhead for this investigative story: Everyone wants to be popular online. Some even pay for it. Inside social medias black market.Read it and then Tweet it out so the bots can see it.______What do love and cryptocurrency share? More than you might think.This weeks Modern Love column breaks it down: All along, I thought I was holding something of value because I could see and feel it. But realness and value are products of shared and equal faith, no matter if in things unseen.Advertisement______This week, in addition to all things espionage, we have news, science, sports, Netflix, a new Australia Diary and some serious Margot Robbie coverage.Bleeding Ears and Road Trip Tears: Let us all remember how we came to know every single word to Australias classic tunes. (Australia Diary)What He Did on His Summer Break: Exposed a Global Security Flaw: Nathan Ruser, an Australian college student, discovered that a fitness app revealed the locations of military sites around the world. (International)By Looking to Asia, the Australian Open Found Itself: The Australian Open has grown to be the largest annual sporting event in the Southern Hemisphere and is considered the Grand Slam of the Asia Pacific. (Sports)A Vegan Macadamia Milk With Roots in Australia: Milkadamia comes in four varieties and is made from macadamia nuts grown in Australia. (Food)Margot Robbie Defends How I, Tonya Depicts Domestic Abuse: The Oscar-nominated actress says she was struck by how candid Tonya Harding was, even as a teenager, about the violence she endured at the hands of family members. (Movies)The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in February: Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for February. (Watching)Review: A New Zealand Novel Full of Taciturn Men and Wooden Dolls (Books)______I just finished reading Wonder, by R.J. Palacio, about a 10-year-old boy born with several genetic abnormalities who dreams of being ordinary.AdvertisementIts meant to be a childrens book (I read it after my son finished it), but adults could also benefit from what the book has to teach, about kindness, humor and the awkwardness of family and friendship.At a time when so much seems so serious, yes, including the top of this newsletter, Wonder is a wonderful sigh of emotional accessibility.Heres the glowing New York Times review if you dont want to take my word for it.Damien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He goes back and forth between heavy history books and light childrens novels. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 22, 2018
Good Thursday. Heres what were watching:• How to kill off a bank quietly.• Snap just lost nearly $2 billion in market value.• The new tax law is having implications beyond Americas borders.• The Supreme Court helps define what a whistle-blower must do.• Newell Brands named three new directors as it fights with Starboard Value.• Broadcom and Qualcomm are getting feistier in their deal fight.Want this in your inbox every morning? Sign up here.The Trump administration has mostly taken a softer stance toward Wall Street, but on Wednesday, it suggested a regulatory change designed to make life harder for the big banks.AdvertisementThe change, proposed by the Treasury Department, is arcane, but in a financial crisis, it could be hugely consequential.AdvertisementWhat is it? The tweak aims to increase the likelihood that a failing bank would be forced into bankruptcy, rather than into a resolution process overseen by the government. The difference might seem insignificant, especially since the current regulatory procedures for winding down a bank, introduced by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, are stringent and mimic bankruptcy. But the Treasury Department believes that an actual bankruptcy would be preferable. It would make the process of restructuring a failed bank more evenhanded and predictable, according to the Treasury. In turn, investors in the big Wall Street firms, and anyone doing business with them, would become more aware of the losses they could suffer if those firms crashed.But didnt the financial crisis of 2008 illustrate the grave dangers of allowing a large bank to go into bankruptcy? The disorderly collapse of Lehman Brothers into bankruptcy set off a panic across the global financial system, according to most analyses of the period. And that is why the Dodd-Frank Act set up a way for regulators to seize a large bank and restructure it in a controlled manner, known as the orderly liquidation authority. As with bankruptcy, it envisions making creditors the new owners of a restructured firm. But it added a feature to limit panic. Under Dodd-Frank, regulators can lend to the failed bank. Such a backstop could prevent a further run on the bank. Its customers and creditors would see that the seized bank had sufficient funds to pay them. The government lending mimics the loans that banks make to bankrupt companies.How much of this does the Treasury want to do away with? Not much at all. It recommends using the Dodd-Frank resolution framework as an emergency tool for use in extraordinary circumstances. But thats how the backers of Dodd-Frank saw the process, too. Crucially, the Treasury also wants to keep the emergency government loan. But the Treasurys proposal does introduce an important and innovative change. It calls for a special type of bankruptcy regime for large financial firms, called Chapter 14. This new regime envisions having a set of specialist judges, working with regulators in the United States and around the world, who could plan for and oversee the bankruptcies of large banks.Would Chapter 14 work in a crisis? Much depends on whether the customers and creditors of the failing bank yank their money, intensifying the run and spreading fear through the system. The Treasury argues that changes since the crisis mean banks have more cash on hand, and banks can now hold off for a short time on paying claims on financial instruments called derivatives (recall, such claims were particularly debilitating for Lehman.) Also, banks must now have detailed plans to put themselves into bankruptcy, though the Treasury last year suggested changes that might make that planning less stringent. Notably, the Treasury hopes to make Chapter 14 effective by deploying a method for restructuring a failed bank that regulators already expect to use under the orderly liquidation authority.This approach rests on turning pre-existing debt owed by a banks holding company into new equity at the subsidiaries where the bank does all its business. The theory: If a reassuringly large amount of new equity were created at the subsidiaries, the banks creditors and trading partners would feel protected and not withdraw. Indeed, the Treasury says this would eliminate the incentive for counterparties to run.Eliminate is a strong word. In the heat of a crisis, when the scale of a banks losses is not known, making it hard to know how much new equity is needed, creditors and trading partners may just head for the exits, crippling the bank. Even so, Aaron Klein, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, said it made a lot of sense to enshrine this formal wind-down procedure in bankruptcy. Why wouldnt you want to make bankruptcy better? he said.And theres a big reason it might work. Under post-crisis rules, banks must earmark billions of dollars of debt that would be used for creating new equity in a resolution. Put another way, Dodd-Frank has made it possible for the Trump administration to pursue a favored policy goal.Advertisement— Peter EavisShares of the social media company tumbled 7.4 percent Thursday after Kylie Jenner tweeted that she no longer opens Snapchat.
            sooo does anyone else not open Snapchat anymore? Or is it just me... ugh this is so sad.        The tweet comes as Snap faces growing criticism from users over the redesign of its app. So far nearly 1.5 million people have retweeted a petition asking Snap to revert to the old version, CNBC reported.Earlier this week analysts at Citi became the latest to downgrade the stock over the negative reaction.Mark May of Citi wrote:While the recent redesign of its flagship app could produce positive long-term benefits, the significant jump in negative app reviews since the redesign was pushed out a few weeks could result in a decline in users and user engagement, which could negatively impact financial results.European banks with significant operations in New York and other parts of the United States have seen multi-billion dollar hits on their results in the fourth quarter as a result.Changes in corporate tax rates have forced European lenders – and their American counterparts – to recognize so-called deferred tax assets at the end of last year.But, the pain is expected to be short term as most banks, including Barclays and UBS, anticipate the tax rate for their United States operations will be lower future.As earnings season edges toward a close, here is the impact on some of Europes largest lenders:• Barclays reported an annual loss of 1.9 billion pounds, or about $2.7 billion after it took a series of charges, including £900 million related to tax changes in the United States. Given the groups substantial U.S. operations, this is expected to result in a reduction of the groups effective tax rate in 2018 and future periods to mid-20 percent, the bank said on Thursday.• Credit Suisse reported a loss of 2.13 billion Swiss francs, or about $2.3 billion, in the fourth quarter, driven primarily by 2.23 billion francs in income tax expenses related to the reassessment of its deferred tax assets.Advertisement• Deutsche Bank reported a full-year loss of 497 million euros, or about $612 million. John Cryan, the Deutsche Bank chief executive, said: Only a charge related to US tax reform at the end of the year meant that we had to post a full-year after-tax loss.• HSBC reported a pretax profit of $17.2 billion for 2017, but took a charge of $1.3 billion to reflect a reevaluation of its deferred tax balances.• Société Générale said its profit was dragged down in the quarter after it was hit by restructuring charges related to its French retail banking network and the impact of tax reforms in France and in the United States.• UBS fell to a loss in the fourth quarter as a result of a writedown of 2.87 billion francs on deferred tax assets.Keep an eye out for Standard Chartered when it reports its annual results next week.The bank, which is based in Britain, but makes most of its money in Asia, has been recently touting its ability to serve the North American market.— Chad BrayAccording to the Supreme Court, in an opinion written by Ruth Bader Ginsburg, it requires telling the Securities and Exchange Commission, not just your bosses. More from Andrew Ackerman of the WSJ:The case stems from a lawsuit filed by a would-be whistle-blower, Paul Somers, who says he was fired from Digital Realty Trust in 2014 after complaining internally about accounting irregularities, among other matters. Mr. Somers argued he was protected by Dodd-Frank even though he didnt report the alleged problems to the S.E.C.Peter Hennings takeThe Supreme Court, in an opinion by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, rejected that reading of the statute. It applied a simple analysis: Courts are not at liberty to dispense with the condition — tell the S.E.C. — Congress imposed. By not reporting his suspicions to the S.E.C., he lost the protection afforded whistle-blowers.The maker of Sharpie markers and Elmers glue said today that it was adding three new directors amid its fight with Starboard. They are:• James Craigie, the chairman and former C.E.O. of Church & Dwight, the maker of Arm & Hammer• Debra Crew, the former C.E.O. of Reynolds American, the tobacco company• Judith Sprieser, a former C.E.O. of Transora, a services provider for packaged goods companies (who will be nominated at the companys upcoming annual meeting)AdvertisementWhat Newell said of the move:These actions are part of Newell Brands ongoing refreshment process on behalf of shareholders designed to build a board with the best mix of skills, expertise and experience to support the Newell Brands leadership team in accelerating shareholder value creation.What it didnt say: That this was a response to Starboard, which has criticized Newells management team — and is seeking to replace the companys entire board.— Michael de la MercedRay Dalio, the founder of Bridgewater Associates, the worlds biggest hedge fund, thinks so.Last week, Mr. Dalio said: The risks of a recession in the next 18-24 months are rising.Now he says there is a 70 percent chance of one before the next presidential election in 2020, according to Reuters.During an appearance Wednesday at the Harvard Kennedy Schools Institute of Politics, Mr. Dalio said:I think we are in a pre-bubble stage that could go into a bubble stage ... The probability of a recession prior to the next presidential election would be relatively high, maybe 70 percent.Broadcom didnt walk away after Qualcomm raised its takeover bid for NXP Semiconductor, but it did lower its own proposal by $3 a share, to $79. Why? Because the new NXP offer transferred $4.10 per Qualcomm share to NXP investors.Qualcomm responded that the move made an inadequate offer even worse, and argued that the NXP deal couldnt have gotten done at the original price of $110 a share.Looks like were headed to a showdown at Qualcomms annual meeting on March 6.The deals flyaround• As online streaming booms and 5G gets closer, is now the time for Charlie Ergen to sell Dish Networks? (Gadfly)• Hedge funds like Verition Partners are trying to save the shareholder appraisal process, meant to wring more money from mergers, from a series of adverse court rulings. (FT)Advertisement• Britain might block Melrose Industriess hostile takeover of the aerospace supplier GKN on national security grounds. (FT)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Two big U.S. hospital networks, Bon Secours Health System and Mercy Health, have agreed to merge, amid a surge in deal-making in the industry. (WSJ)Why has its growth slowed? A new study by the McKinsey Global Institute suggests that rising consumer demand, as well as what companies produce and which tech they use, drives productivity improvements.More from Peter Eaviss correspondence with Jaana Remes of McKinsey, one of the studys authors:Important new technologies can often take well over 10 years to have a big impact on productivity, she adds. The optimistic take, though, is that we can in the coming years expect to see big benefits as companies further automate, and introduce artificial intelligence.In other macro news: Prepare for interest rates to rise, Jay Powell said. Preferably gradually, Randal Quarles added. The saving rate is at a 12-year low. And no one knows why the markets dropped suddenly yesterday.• Mississippi granted a tax break worth up to $6 million to a hotel tied to the Trump family business. So could that violate the emoluments clause? (NYT)• Sam Nunberg, a Trump campaign adviser, is scheduled to meet today with Robert Mueller. And t he special counsel has filed new charges — under seal — against Paul Manafort and Rick Gates.• Congresss next fight over Dreamers may come with a $1.3 trillion spending bill to avert a government shutdown on March 23. Meanwhile, Melania Trumps parents have become lawful U.S. residents, perhaps through what the White House denounces as chain migration.• Senators James Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, and Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, called for a bipartisan infrastructure bill. (WSJ)Advertisement• Survivors of school shootings shared their stories with President Trump and pleaded for action. (NYT)• Representative Trey Gowdy of the House Oversight Committee demanded documents relating to first-class travel by Scott Pruitt, the head of the E.P.A. (NYT)The banks employees are scattered across Midtown Manhattan. So its planning a new headquarters, which could be as tall as 75 stories, to house 15,000 workers. (Its current H.Q. — which, fun fact, is where the pistols from Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burrs duel reside — was designed for about 3,500.)The context: The forthcoming JPMorgan skyscraper is the first major project under New York Citys Midtown East rezoning plan. The bank dropped plans for Manhattans Far West Side after failing to secure subsidies from the city.Elsewhere in banking:  Barclays lost $2.7 billion last year, hit by the U.S. tax overhaul, but promised to double its dividend. And José Manuel Barroso, chairman of Goldman Sachs International, has been criticized for lobbying the European Commission, which he led until 2014.The carmaker didnt specify what Raj Nair, the head of its North American operations, did to be fired, only that his ouster arose out of an anonymous tip. But the move adds to turmoil at the struggling company.The context: Ford already apologized to its workers after the NYT investigated longstanding abuses of women at two of its plants in Chicago. And its operations chief in China left earlier this year for pre-Ford personal reasons.The misconduct flyaround• The Dallas Mavericks franchise has hired outside counsel to investigate allegations of inappropriate conduct against its former team president.Advertisement• A national online survey found sexual harassment and assault to be much more common than previous studies had suggested. (NYT)• The former NPR executive Michael Oreskes was warned repeatedly that he was acting inappropriately toward women, and kept doing it, according to an independent investigation. (NYT)• Tom Schumacher, the Disney executive who took Frozen to Broadway, has been accused of workplace harassment. (WSJ)• An anonymous chat app is helping lift the lid on sexual harassment in South Korea. (Reuters)The secure messaging service is holding a second private presale before its highly anticipated (and record-breaking) initial coin offering. More from Adrianne Jeffries of The Verge:The exact amount to be raised is still being determined, according to one source, but two other sources said Telegram is estimating it will be around the same size as the first round, which would bring the total raised to over $1.6 billion before the ICO even opens up to the general public.More in digital money• The S.E.C. charged the virtual currency exchange BitFunder and its founder with fraud. (CNBC)• The Justice Department has made gains on a seized Bitcoin hoard, but has had trouble cashing out. (Fortune)• Some new ways of selling shovels to Bitcoin miners. (WSJ)• Lawmakers in Britain are examining sympathetic ways to regulate digital currencies. (Reuters)• New software at big cryptocurrency exchanges could make Bitcoin transactions cheaper. (CNBC)And Bitcoins at $10,676 today, according to CoinMarketCap.• The latest chatbots are impressive. But they might be even better if their inventors werent scared of them saying something vile in public. (NYT)Advertisement• Airbnb is trying to promote its Experiences business as it heads toward an I.P.O., with little success. (WSJ)• Amazons Alexa could be the next great consumer computing platform, says Farhad Manjoo. (NYT)• Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook, says it could be fixed by charging users for a better News Feed, arranged in cable-style bundles. (WaPo)• Uber will keep investing in Southeast Asia, despite losing money to local rivals. (Reuters)• A former Google engineer has sued the company for discrimination and wrongful termination, saying he fired for responding to racist and sexist encounters. (The Verge)• Naspers of South Africa has become an under-the-radar e-commerce giant and global tech investor. (The Information)• One of Twitters solutions for bot accounts: limiting automated tweets. (Axios)• Facebook is using algorithms to flag expressions of suicidal thoughts. (CNBC)• Apple wants to patent a way to count calories burned during yoga. (Axios)• Peter Tague, one of Citigroups co-heads of M. & A., is leaving. (WSJ)• Alison Gleeson and Wendy Bahr are the finalists to become Ciscos global sales chief and No. 2 executive, unnamed sources say. (The Information)• Glassdoor has hired Jim Cox from Lithium Technologies as its C.F.O. It also named Christian Sutherland-Wong as its first C.O.O. and Samantha Zupan as its vice president of global corporate communications. (Glassdoor)Advertisement• Coinbase is hiring a C.F.O. (Recode)There is a credibility gap between what they say and the reality of what is to come.— The Deutsche Bank analyst John Inch on how G.E. executives — including Jeff Immelt — masked problems at the conglomerate with rosy projections and questionable accounting.• Toys R Us plans to close another 200 stores and lay off many of its corporate staff after disappointing holiday sales, unnamed sources say. (WSJ)• British officials have been holding talks with Unilever amid fears that the Anglo-Dutch consumer group could choose to have one unified headquarters in Rotterdam, not London. (FT)• Hedge funds are buying planes and leasing them to airlines. (FT)• A fund managed directly by Alan Howard, who made his name with impressive profits during the financial crisis in 2008, lost nearly 9 percent net of fees from May through December. (Reuters)• Greeces Parliament voted to investigate politicians over allegations of bribery by the Swiss drugmaker Novartis. (Reuters)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PETER BAKER and PETER S. GOODMANJAN. 25, 2018
Several world leaders highlighted integration and cooperation as vital for the global economy ahead of President Trumps arrival at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.DAVOS, Switzerland — When President Trump arrived on Thursday at the conference center where the worlds financial and political elite have been meeting, onlookers crowded a balcony and craned their heads to see the leader who has challenged the very international order that Davos represents. At first, it was quiet. Then someone called out a question.Are you going to be treated well? he was asked.You tell me, Mr. Trump replied.The reverse question was unasked but hung in the air: How was he going to treat them?If he was not exactly entering the lions den, it was nonetheless a fraught moment for both sides as the America First president ventured into the lair of the we-are-the-world banking titans, corporate magnates and international leaders who have spent decades preaching the virtues of global integration.Rather than confrontation, both sides labored for conciliation, at least to a point. For one afternoon and evening, at least, Mr. Trump threw no protectionist grenades and even broached the possibility, however remote, that he would re-enter a Pacific trade agreement that he scrapped last year, if it were renegotiated. For its part, the Davos crowd welcomed its top critic with a reception and warm words.AdvertisementThe mood was strikingly different from a year ago, when Mr. Trump was about to take office and the globalists meeting in this mountaintop getaway reeled in shock, panicked that his campaign promises meant the end of the movement they had nurtured for decades.AdvertisementA year later, many of the business and political elites remain dismissive of him, privately rolling eyes and using words like madman, but there was excitement about economic growth, and the tax cuts and regulatory rollback he has ushered in.The real test of how the two sides will deal with each other will come Friday when Mr. Trump addresses the World Economic Forum. Mr. Trumps plan is not to stick his thumb in anyones eye, aides said, but to soberly promote his view that trade should be fair and reciprocal while selling his story of economic energy and soliciting foreign investment. Whether he will follow the script, they acknowledged, was anyones guess.The question is whether hes here to be congratulated by the billionaires of Davos or to scold them on behalf of the people who elected him, said Robert A. Johnson, president of the Institute for New Economic Thinking, a research institution in New York. He will act like hes doing both.Asked his message for Davos, Mr. Trump said: The real message is we want great prosperity and we want great peace, and I think thats the message. Its been going really well. A lot of people are coming back to the United States. We are seeing tremendous investment, and today has been a very exciting day.Davos has never encountered anyone quite like Mr. Trump. For one week each year, this ski town is transformed into a festival of deal-making capitalism, international wonkery, late-night parties and earnest save-the-world panel discussions. Heads of state, corporate chieftains, policymakers and celebrities slip and slide along icy streets to stop in glass-enclosed, tech-heavy spaces set up by countries like India and South Africa and companies like Facebook and Google along the Promenade, the main drag.At times, the tensions of the outside world follow them here. The Ukrainians were chagrined to discover this year that the space they rented at Promenade 73 turned out to be right across the street from Russia House at Promenade 72. Grim jokes ensued about the Russians crossing the road to take over a room in Ukraine House.Unlike other visitors, Mr. Trump did not wander the pavilions. He attended a reception in his honor by the forum, and then was host at a dinner for about 15 chief executives from firms like Siemens, Nokia, Nestle, HSBC, Anheuser-Busch and Bayer.AdvertisementAs the executives tucked into grilled beef tenderloin or fried Swiss pikeperch with purple carrot purée, Mr. Trump flattered them as some of the greatest business leaders in the world and invited them to talk about their businesses, much as he does at cabinet meetings back home. Like his cabinet secretaries, many of the guests volunteered praise of the president and gratitude for his efforts to cut taxes and regulation.The greeting did not surprise everyone. Trump made a Christmas gift to everyone with those tax rebates, said Charles-Edouard Bouée, chief executive of Roland Berger, a global consultancy with offices in Shanghai and Munich.Even leaders with grievances against the Trump administration seemed intent on playing up to him.I found him to be a different person from his public persona, Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi of Pakistan said at a breakfast on Thursday, recalling their encounter at the United Nations, while putting aside Mr. Trumps threat this month to suspend most security aid because of what he called Pakistans lies and deceit in dealing with terrorism. He is a very warm person and he engaged me.An aide to Mr. Trump who arrived before him expressed astonishment that he was being received so warmly by people he had criticized so harshly. But outside the presidents earshot, there was still plenty of skepticism and concern.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At a separate dinner on Thursday night, George Soros, the liberal financial trader and philanthropist, called Mr. Trump the vanguard of a new wave of authoritarian rulers that threatens open society.The survival of our entire civilization is at stake, said Mr. Soros, while pointing a finger at the rise of leaders like Kim Jong-un and Donald Trump.In the days before Mr. Trumps arrival, the leaders of India, Canada, France and Germany used a series of high-profile speeches to mount an aggressive defense of the global trading system, while other officials worried that Mr. Trump and other nationalists posed grave risks.The whole world is concerned that the United States is disengaging from the global trade arena, said Cecilia Malmstrom, trade minister for the European Union. Im extremely concerned.Unlike Bill Clinton, the only other sitting president to attend Davos, Mr. Trump has threatened to scrap the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada and a separate pact with South Korea in addition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP, that he withdrew from shortly after taking office. Before leaving Washington this week, he slapped new tariffs on imported solar panels and washing machines.AdvertisementBut as he has on immigration in recent days, Mr. Trump toggled between being hard-line and accommodating. In an interview with CNBC to be aired on Friday before his speech, Mr. Trump raised the possibility of rejoining the Pacific partnership, which was negotiated by President Barack Obama but never submitted to Congress amid bipartisan opposition.I would do TPP if we were able to make a substantially better deal, Mr. Trump said. The deal was terrible; the way it was structured was terrible. If we did a substantially better deal, I would be open to TPP.For other Davos participants, more disturbing than his trade views were his utterances on race and gender, most recently in his resistance to immigrants from Haiti and Africa.Its disappointing to be written off by some ill-judged words, said Nicky Newton-King, chief executive of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Our exchange is regarded as world class. Were completely proud of what were able to do in one of these countries the president is so dismissive of.Lynette Wallworth, a virtual reality filmmaker from Australia who has traveled the world to introduce viewers to diverse cultures, expressed hope that Mr. Trump would use his time here to absorb challenging points of view.He seems to talk about barriers, she said. He needs to listen to the people who are gathered here, who are trying to make an inclusive world.Tolu Oni, a professor at the University of Cape Town in South Africa, asked if Mr. Trump was capable of absorbing opinions that conflict with his preconceptions.I wonder what he will get from this, she said. I hope that in coming here, there is some degree of learning that national interests are not necessarily in contradiction with being a responsible global citizen.Elisabeth Bumiller, Keith Bradsher and Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker and Peter Goodman on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @petersgoodman.A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Titans Wary, But Warmer To President.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUMJAN. 29, 2018
WASHINGTON — Asked to reflect on the relationship between President Trump and the news media — an abusive yet symbiotic union, if there ever was one — Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House chief strategist, paused a moment to consider.Its the first McLuhanesque presidency, he said, finally, leaning back in a chair on the parlor floor of his residence here on Thursday. One hundred percent.Mr. Bannon, who was recently excommunicated from his own media empire, Breitbart News, is not the first to draw a line from President Trump to Marshall McLuhan, the theorist whose the medium is the message mantra predicted a media-saturated era where reality is less important than its representation.Still, he has a point: Fox & Friends routinely prompts presidential edicts, tsetse-like tweets from @realDonaldTrump swarm lawmakers and shape policy, and the pronouncements of Time magazine or MSNBCs Joe Scarborough can carry outsize importance in the Oval Office.AdvertisementThe digital world is more real than the physical, analog world, Mr. Bannon said, adding, of Mr. Trump, He understands that in a very visceral way.AdvertisementSince Mr. Trump took office a year ago, the political press has endured a sustained assault from a chief executive who has called journalists the enemy of the American people. Yet the news media has also driven decisions inside the West Wing to a degree perhaps unmatched since the scandal-ridden days of Richard Nixon. And White House aides and reporters alike say that political reality is being refracted by the media in an unprecedented way.Some reporters, in unguarded moments, say that they fear for journalists safety. Margaret Talev, the president of the White House Correspondents Association, was moved to tears in an interview as she recounted the death threats that now routinely land in her colleagues emails.Other journalists — ironic, cynical or simply enterprising, depending on your point of view — have embraced the moment as the wildest ride of their lives, and a lucrative one, too: The number of Washington reporters with cable television contracts, some with salaries verging on six figures, has surged.It is a boom time for investigative reporting — witness the revelations unearthed by The New York Times, Politico, The Washington Post and others — and also for rank incrementalism. A storys buzz, variously defined by the number of retweets, Facebook likes or panicked text messages from White House aides that it generates, is at a premium, fueling news outlets that condense political reporting from 1,000-word stories into stand-alone nuggets designed to set Twitter aflame.Trust in the press has eroded thanks, in part, to Mr. Trump and his allies, the ubiquitous phrase fake news osmosing its way into the American psyche. Yet newspaper subscriptions and television news ratings, once in free fall, have perked back up.When he says youll miss me when Im gone, and your ratings will go through the floor, hes absolutely correct, Mr. Bannon said, mischievously, of Mr. Trump. Thats McLuhan talking through Trump.Mr. Bannon played a not-minor role in creating the current media atmosphere: At Breitbart News, where he was executive chairman until his abrupt exit this month, he whipped up anger against CNN and other major news organizations; upon entering the White House, he instructed the news media to keep its mouth shut and just listen for a while.AdvertisementWearing four visible layers of shirts (including a zip-up fleece from West Point, which one of his daughters attended), Mr. Bannon declined to speak on the record about his own role in making the fraught new media environment. But there were signs that, like Mr. Trump, he is aware he has benefited from the same news media that he likes to denigrate.A copy of Devils Bargain, a chronicle of Mr. Bannons rise to prominence by the Bloomberg Businessweek journalist Joshua Green, sat on the mantel above the fireplace. The book is being adapted into a television series by the powerful Hollywood producer Jason Blum, who recently flew to Washington to meet with Mr. Bannon at his home.A year ago, the worries of Washington journalists were manifold: eviction from the West Wing, the end of regular pool reports and briefings, a Breitbart takeover of White House coverage. None of these anxieties came to fruition; in fact, last week, when Mr. Trump wandered into a small reporters briefing with his chief of staff, John F. Kelly, Breitbarts White House correspondent was one of the journalists grumbling afterward about not being invited.Mr. Trump has forsaken formal news conferences, and his usual forum for sit-down interviews has been Fox News. (Last week, in Davos, the president acquiesced to interviews with CNBC and the British presenter Piers Morgan, who has usually been friendly toward Mr. Trump.) But he has embraced the so-called pool sprays — journalist jargon for a White House photo-op — to spar with reporters off-the-cuff, sometimes for nearly an hour at a time.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Amid the insanity of the attacks on our industry, you have this journalistic nirvana, said Jim VandeHei, a co-founder of Politico who now runs Axios, an outlet that went live a year ago with the aim of distilling Washingtons complexities into highly tweetable micro-scoops. You get play-by-play visibility you could only dream of under previous presidents.Mr. VandeHei proselytized for his sites smart brevity philosophy during an interview at Axioss Virginia offices, inside a co-working space where pale ale is on tap and the coffee urns specify the altitude at which the beans are grown.Axios covers the Trump administration with a bullet-pointed morning newsletter, by the well-connected Washington journalist Mike Allen, and quick-hit scoops from its sole White House reporter, Jonathan Swan. To hear Mr. VandeHei tell it, the era of the in-depth newspaper story is over.People arent reading that long and, to be honest, they shouldnt have to, he said.An Axios buzzword is illuminate — tell readers exactly what they need to know, and nothing more. Mr. Swan, a newcomer to Washington who regularly breaks news, does not attend White House briefings, where fresh information can be scarce.His avoidance of the ritual is likely to cheer liberal critics who say the Washington press has been too meek and rigid in adjusting to the Trump juggernaut. There were groans, in November, after a briefing during which the press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, asked White House reporters to preface their questions with a list of what they were thankful for — a schoolyard exercise that some journalists played along with.AdvertisementBut Ms. Talev, a Bloomberg News correspondent and the president of the Correspondents Association, said that the briefing remains an opportunity to force the administration to speak on the record — a crucial forum in an era when truth is blurred. We think briefings serve people; we think open dialogue serves people, she said in an interview at Peets Coffee, a block from her West Wing desk.Ms. Talev said that her father escaped Communist Bulgaria in the 1960s, where dissent was squashed and criticizing government officials was forbidden. Her work, she said, feels personal these days. Under her watch, the Correspondents Association has created a new committee on reporters security, to assist members who receive threats, an increasingly common occurrence.April D. Ryan, the White House reporter for American Urban Radio Networks and one of the few black correspondents in the briefing room, has described receiving menacing and racist messages; she was subsequently derided as Miss Piggy by a high-ranking official in the Department of Housing and Urban Development.Last week, a man in Michigan was arrested on suspicion of threatening CNNs Atlanta headquarters, the kind of real-world effect that reporters here worry may be the inevitable result of a president who once called the press a great danger to our country.Work in the capital, however, goes on. Beneath the White House briefing room, where about two dozen journalists occupy a warren of cramped offices and cubicles, the mood is like that of any other workplace, as it was under past administrations.But subtle subversions do exist. For months, a New Yorker cartoon has been tacked to the wall in a prominent place by the stairs. It shows two bearded prisoners hanging inside a dungeon.One prisoner to the other: Personally, I prefer the old White House pressroom.A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2018, on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: In Age of Trump, Political Reporters Are Under Attack, and in Demand.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By NICHOLAS KRISTOF

FEB. 23, 2018

Surprised? So was I when I had my urine tested for these chemicals. (A urine or blood test is needed to confirm whether you have been exposed.)Let me stress that mine should have been clean.Almost a decade ago, I was shaken by my reporting on a class of toxic chemicals called endocrine disruptors. They are linked to cancer and obesity and also seemed to feminize males, so that male alligators developed stunted genitalia and male smallmouth bass produced eggs.In humans, endocrine disruptors were linked to two-headed sperm and declining sperm counts. They also were blamed for an increase in undescended testicles and in a birth defect called hypospadias, in which the urethra exits the side or base of the penis rather than the tip.Believe me, the scariest horror stories are found in urology journals. If youre a man, you dont wring your hands as you read; you clutch your crotch.So Ive tried for years now to limit my exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals. Following the advice of the Presidents Cancer Panel, I eat organic to reduce exposure to endocrine disruptors in pesticides. I try to store leftover meals in glass containers, not plastic. I avoid handling A.T.M. and gas station receipts. I try to avoid flame-retardant furniture.Those are all common sources of toxic endocrine disruptors, so I figured that my urine would test pristine. Pure as a mountain creek.Silent Spring Institute near Boston, which studies chemical safety, offers a Detox Me Action Kit to help consumers determine what harmful substances are in their bodies. Following instructions, I froze two urine samples (warning my wife and kids that day to be careful what food they grabbed from the freezer) and Fed-Exed them off for analysis.By the way, the testing is for women, too. Men may wince as they read about miniaturized alligator penises, but endocrine disruptors have also been linked to breast cancer and gynecological cancers. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists warns women that endocrine disruptors can also cause miscarriages, fetal defects and much more.As I waited for the lab results, I continued to follow the latest research. One researcher sent a bizarre video of a mouse exposed to a common endocrine disruptor doing back flips nonstop, as a kind of nervous tic.Finally, I heard back from Silent Spring Institute. I figured this was a report card I had aced. I avoid all that harmful stuff. In my columns, I had advised readers how to avoid it.Sure enough, I had a low level of BPA, best known because plastic bottles now often boast BPA Free.But even a diligent student like me failed the test. Badly. I had high levels of a BPA substitute called BPF. Ruthann Rudel, a toxicologist who is the head of research at Silent Spring, explained that companies were switching to BPF even though it may actually be yet more harmful (it takes longer for the body to break it down). BPF is similar to that substance that made those mice do back flips.These types of regrettable substitutions — when companies remove a chemical that has a widely known bad reputation and substitute a little-known bad actor in its place — are all too common, Rudel told me. Sometimes we environmental scientists think we are playing a big game of whack-a-mole with the chemical companies.Sigh. I thought I was being virtuous by avoiding plastics with BPA, but I may have been causing my body even more damage.My urine had an average level of an endocrine disruptor called triclosan, possibly from soap or toothpaste. Like most people, I also had chlorinated phenols (perhaps from mothballs in my closet).I had a high level of a flame retardant called triphenyl phosphate, possibly from a floor finish, which may be neurotoxic. Hmm. Whenever you see flaws in my columns, thats just my neurotoxins at work.Will these endocrine disruptors give me cancer? Make me obese? Make my genitals fall off? Nobody really knows. At least I havent started doing random back flips yet.The steps I took did help, and I recommend that others consult consumer guides at ewg.org to reduce their exposures to toxic chemicals. Likewise, if I had downloaded the Detox Me smartphone app, I would have known to get rid of those mothballs, along with air fresheners and scented candles. (Science lesson: A less fragrant house means cleaner pee.)Yet my takeaway is also that chemical industry lobbyists have rigged the system so that we consumers just cant protect ourselves adequately.You should not have to be a Ph.D toxicologist to be safe from so many of the chemicals in use, Dr. Richard Jackson of U.C.L.A. told me. So much of what we are exposed to is poorly tested and even less regulated.The Trump administration has magnified the problem by relaxing regulation of substances like chlorpyrifos, Dow Chemicals nerve gas pesticide. The swamp has won.So the saddest lesson is that even if you understand the peril and try to protect yourself and your family — as I strongly suggest you do — your body may still be tainted. The chemical companies spend tens of millions of dollars lobbying and have gotten the lightest regulation that money can buy.They are running the show, and we consumers are their lab mice.I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on Twitter (@NickKristof).By KLAUS BIESENBACH, CHRISTOPHER GREGORY and ARIANA MCLAUGHLINJAN. 25, 2018
In the wake of Hurricane Marias crushing devastation of Puerto Rico, leaving half the island without power and the official death toll rising, Klaus Biesenbach, the director of MoMA PS1 and chief curator at large for the Museum of Modern Art, and Christopher Gregory, a Puerto Rican photojournalist based in New York, traveled together to see how artists were facing the challenges of a post-disaster island.Through decades of economic hardship, and years of financial crisis, the art world in Puerto Rico has had to learn to survive during lean times through a new artistic sharing economy — sharing knowledge; resources; and access to infrastructure, materials and spaces. Might these artists now serve as an example — and catalyst — for other communities?In Santurce, a district in San Juan, the visitors found Zilia Sánchez, 91, in the remnants of her studio where she had worked for nearly 50 years. Sunlight streamed through the jagged beams. There were no tarps to protect the roofless houses in her neighborhood, but Ms. Sánchez considered herself fortunate. Born in Havana in 1926, she settled here after years working abroad and is one of the most influential art teachers in Puerto Rico. Now her former students, including Jorge González, had come to help her rebuild her studio which she envisions with a protective concrete box around it, so she could continue to create the shaped paintings, suggesting female bodies, which look like ocean waves.Mr. González is now an internationally recognized artist who will be featured in a group show in July at the Whitney Museum of American Art. He took his teachers example to heart and extended his artistic practice to what can be called social practice — creating spaces for collective learning. He developed the Escuela de Oficios (Trade School), engaging participants in traditional artisanal techniques, including weaving with plant-based materials found in nature.AdvertisementIn Naranjito, the islands central region, Mr. Biesenbach and Mr. Gregory found Mr. González and Chemi Rosado-Seijo teaching a lace workshop with local children from an elementary school. Mr. Rosado-Seijo is an artist whose practice also combines community engagement and collaboration. Since 2002 he has been active in El Cerro, a rural, working-class neighborhood in the mountains of Naranjito, where he helps residents paint their houses a green shade of their choosing, in a community-building exercise that emphasized its hillside surroundings.Now the foliage here is bare, and he has helped cover the community center with a large blue tarp to save it from the unrelenting, torrential rain. The school was being used as a homeless shelter for survivors of the hurricane; the lace workshop was conducted in its courtyard.AdvertisementAn art world that has survived through modest circumstances, constantly prepared for small emergencies, has left artists better equipped for the big one. In an interview with The New York Times, Mr. Biesenbach and Mr. Gregory said they found many artists eager to help one another and their communities. These are edited excerpts from a conversation, conducted by Ariana McLaughlin, a photo editor on the Culture desk of The Times.How do you explain social practice to someone whos never heard that term before?KLAUS BIESENBACH Artists are engaged with images that surround us daily, and they also make images, but often artistic practice is also a political and social practice, because you change the environment in which we all live. Is social practice more important now because of the hurricane?BIESENBACH In Puerto Rico, social practice was very important for the last 10 years [because] Puerto Rico was undergoing a crisis already. The artists we visited were already active in social practice, in education and helping with youth projects, and with installing water filters. Art was very helpful to reassign responsibilities. Everybody, every single citizen, has creative powers and should use them in the process of making a better society, and artists are privileged. Theyre the most creative and they find the most convincing, and also the most utopian, forms.CHRISTOPHER GREGORY The arts community in a way is uniquely equipped to answer those calls, because large institutions cant move as quickly as individuals who have inroads into these areas.How do you define art? BIESENBACH For me art is changing how people look at the world. Its a disruption. It makes us look at the world differently. What was the catalyst for going to Puerto Rico?BIESENBACH We made a Facebook exchange group. We collected all the addresses, all the contact information. We asked, What do you need in case of a hurricane? We did this before Irma, and everybody was connected. And then Irma didnt really hit so badly but we had the people communicating. Then, we helped with fund-raisers. It was just necessary, after we had been in contact with certain help organizations, to go down on-site and visit artists we had worked with, to see what was needed now. And without using up anybodys resources. I was driving with a friend who had a car, staying with a friend. Chris was staying with family.Advertisement What surprised you the most once you arrived?BIESENBACH The sheer size of the destruction. As you were driving, and youre driving further, you have landslides, and then youre driving through El Yunque [National Forest, in northeastern Puerto Rico] and it looks like a bomb fell. Nearly the whole forest, 28,000 acres, was defoliated, no leaves, and giant trees were upside down. When you are on an island, you cant find an end to the hurricanes impact. It was so destroyed. I was very shocked by this.GREGORY There were places youve seen your entire life that have these layers of memory and are now gone. I think the hardest thing for me was the realization that Puerto Rico is never really going to be the same.BIESENBACH We went to Zilia Sánchezs studio. I had just been there last winter when she was preparing her Venice Biennale art, and I had seen pieces from the 70s and 80s. Now it was just a pile of garbage. We walk in, theres no ceiling. And she was very level headed! There she is, 91. She had high heels and a tank top on and she looked great and energetic. We saw art being destroyed, but not spirits being destroyed. She was amazing. What was your biggest takeaway from the trip?GREGORY Now more than ever, Puerto Rico needs artists taking things like humor, taking aesthetic beauty and using that to shed light on some of the hardships and the atrocities that are happening on the island. Whats happening in the photograph taken outside the school?BIESENBACH Chemi [Rosado-Seijo] and Jorge [González] are teaching a lacing workshop, and its beautiful because not only the kids, but also the parents came to help with this crocheting. Its normally done in this big gymnasium, but that became a homeless shelter.GREGORY  The artists had a relationship with the community before, but the first month after the hurricane, it took a big psychological toll. I think that this is a beautiful moment, witnessing the healing properties of social practice and art. Whats the significance of the painted green homes in this photograph?BIESENBACH Fifteen years ago, Chemi offered to help everyone who has a house in El Cerro paint it in different shades of green. It was really an incredible experience to see this social sculpture, conceived, made, painted, and it survived the hurricane! With the vegetation around it nearly gone, the greens of the community, all the different shades of the houses, stood up so beautifully. And everybodys proud of it, and he knows everybody. He has been welcomed in every household.A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 2018, on Page AR18 of the New York edition with the headline: In Puerto Rico,  Artists Rebuild  And Reach Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KAREN STABINERFEB. 13, 2018
Kyle Glanville should have been thrilled. All 70 of the outdoor seats at Go Get Em Tiger were taken, only three days after he and his partner opened the cafe in the Los Feliz neighborhood of Los Angeles.He was not. Everybody was at a laptop wearing headphones, Mr. Glanville said. He strode inside, unplugged the device that provided free Wi-Fi and tossed it into a bin in his office.He wanted a courtyard where people talked to one another, not a silent office for remote workers. And while anyone with a cellphone hot spot could connect without his help, he had made himself clear. On a recent weekday morning, almost a year and a half later, the courtyard was still full of people, but this time they were talking to one another. Only one was at his laptop.Remote workers have staked out coffee shops for years, but small-business owners say their ranks are rising. In 2016, 43 percent of American employees spent some time working remotely, according to a Gallup survey; the number who telecommute at least half the time has grown by 115 percent since 2005, said a report last year from FlexJobs and Global Workplace Analytics. Add in the self-employed, and the crowd gets even bigger. And while some still embrace the home-and-pajama model, a large contingent hits the corner cafe.AdvertisementStarbucks may not feel the pinch, with its multibillion-dollar revenues and legions of grab-and-go customers, but for owners of smaller businesses, the math is grim.Three hours for five dollars worth of coffee is not a model that works, said David Wynn, co-owner of Triniti, a tiny cafe that opened two months ago east of Mr. Glanvilles place, on Sunset Boulevard.AdvertisementOwners face a choice: Get tough and encourage workers to relocate, or embrace them and hope that a combination of guilt and loyalty will inspire them to spend more or leave sooner.Its hard to know which is the right answer. Theres no social order here to tell us how to behave, said Mr. Glanville, as though he were contemplating a newly formed nation, which in a way he is. He took a no-tolerance stance on Wi-Fi because a single ground rule seemed more hospitable than a litany of restrictions.Rich Nieto thought he was being tough enough when he limited workers to a dedicated laptop room at his 25-seat Sweetleaf cafe in Long Island City, Queens. But when all eight laptop seats were taken one afternoon, a customer simply retired to another room, tore away the wallpaper to expose a purposely covered electrical outlet, and plugged in.You cant win that battle, said Mr. Nieto, who had already learned his lesson the hard way. The first time I saw someone with a laptop I said, Sorry, no laptops,  he said. Right after that, I got a one-star review on Yelp.Jody Williams, who with Rita Sodi owns the West Village restaurant Via Carota and has her own smaller place, Buvette, dislikes talking about policy and prefers to say that laptops are frowned on. A staff member will approach the uninitiated customer whose laptop is open for more than a couple of minutes with a gentle but firm request to finish up what youre doing and close the laptop, please, she said.When she and Ms. Sodi open Pisellino, a new cafe, in April, the no-work attitude will be embedded in the design: a standing bar only 12 inches deep, no Wi-Fi, no outlets, five small cafe tables inside and 20 outside when the weather allows. Little opportunity to set up shop.AdvertisementEven companies committed to accommodating remote workers look for ways to improve the relationship. At Triniti, Mr. Wynn offers free Wi-Fi, but after two hours a customer must have a face-to-face interaction with an employee, he says, to get a new password. He relies on that interaction and the aromas from the kitchen to transform coffee drinkers into lunch customers, and has been gratified as the first wave of workers have started to order midday meals.Bailey Arnold, director of education for Gregorys Coffee, says that many of the Manhattan-based companys 25 outlets are in business districts to tap into a reliable stream of customers. But recently the company installed a brew bar at three branches, to emphasize coffee and conversation — and to speed turnover, and get away from what she calls the old oblivious row of laptop, laptop, laptop.If someone stakes out too much turf — if their belongings sprawl into nearby seating — its time for a polite intervention. We wont move anybodys stuff, Ms. Arnold said, but an employee might start to clean the adjacent table and hope they get the hint.And if that doesnt work, eventually the furniture will send a message. The seating isnt all that comfortable for long sessions, she said.Jason Neroni, the chef and a partner in the Rose Cafe, in the Venice, Calif., neighborhood known as Silicon Beach, said he was happy to run what he called a commissary for the nearby offices of Google, BuzzFeed and Snapchat, and for self-employed people.He sees them as the nascent regulars of tomorrow — and with 300 seats, he can afford to invest 85 to 90 cafe and patio seats in the future, and still maintain a no-laptop policy in the main dining room.He employs subtle means to influence the behavior of working customers. Logging in for two hours of free Wi-Fi requires the users email address, which goes onto the Roses mailing list — and while people can log right back in, the expiration reminds them that it might be time to order another round. Servers circulate to ask if they can get something else for a customer tied to his electronic devices. And Wi-Fi service ends at 5:30 p.m., to signal that the workday has ended and dinner service is about to begin.Mr. Neroni tried extending the Wi-Fi until 7 one night, as an experiment, he said. People looked up and figured we forgot to turn it off. And it was Oh, boy, and a line of people carrying their open laptops into the dining room so they could keep working. He reminded the disappointed throng of the dining-room no-laptop policy and resumed the 5:30 cutoff.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Like most cafes, the Rose doesnt provide electrical outlets; a dwindling battery should be a sign that its time to go.AdvertisementSome remote workers have gotten the message, and try to do their part. Jocelyn Johnson, who founded VideoInk, a digital trade publication about online video, relies on remote work sites including the Rose. She has defined a code of conduct to prove herself a good citizen.Her self-imposed rules include working in one cafe or restaurant no more than three mornings a week, for no more than three hours at a stretch. She always orders a coffee and pastry, and frequently a lunch to go. Then she packs up and heads to another spot on her preferred list.The only casualty of the plan is her social life, which she had hoped might include the Rose as well: She tried a weekend brunch there, only to realize that it felt too much like the office.I couldnt enjoy myself, she said. I kept feeling that I ought to be working.Brian Swichkow, her frequent tablemate, has no such problem. Known to friends and colleagues as the Rose Cafe guy because he frequently shows up in the restaurants Instagram photos, Mr. Swichkow, the founder of ghostinfluence.com, takes his regular seat six or seven mornings a week, from which he advises clients on how to develop digital empathy in their online marketing.He budgets $350 a month to cover coffee, frequent breakfasts and lunch to go if hes headed straight to a meeting. Business lunches or drinks are always at the Rose — and yet he figures his home away from home still costs about $100 less than a shared work space.But theres a big gap between a customer who invests in his remote work space and one who rips the wallpaper to get at an outlet. Cafe owners find it difficult to define a consistent strategy without a proven, profitable relationship model.Mr. Glanville yanked the Wi-Fi at Go Get Em Tiger, but he provides it at two other locations that are not as much of a hub for remote workers. Hell do so again at a smaller fourth cafe opening this spring in Highland Park, in northeastern Los Angeles.He cant imagine that remote workers will find the new place a comfortable home, so he has decided to take a chance and accommodate people who want recreational access.Still, theres no way to know for sure if the working masses will turn up. If they can figure out how to work squished into 15 seats with Prince blaring on the sound system, he said, with a shrug, more power to them.AdvertisementFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Unplug, Add Wi-Fi Or Both?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRIS STANFORDJAN. 30, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know:• When President Trump delivers his first State of the Union address tonight, will he offer a hard-edge appeal to his base, or a more bipartisan and conventional approach? Heres our preview.Stephen Miller, known for his far-right, anti-immigrant views, is in charge of writing the speech. But White House officials have stressed that it will be optimistic and will let Mr. Trump recount the successes of his first year. Our fact-check reporter offers an assessment of that year.Melania Trump has kept a low profile since the report that her husband paid a porn star $130,000 to keep quiet about their affair, but she is expected to attend the speech. Heres the list of people who have been invited.• The address begins at 9 p.m. Eastern. The Times will have live coverage and analysis.• For 16 years, U.S. presidents have said that the Taliban are retreating and that Afghans are on the verge of assuming control of their country.AdvertisementYet victory remains elusive, and deadly attacks continue. In the past two weeks, strikes have killed more than 130 people in the capital, Kabul, where anger at the government is growing, our correspondents there report.• Were going to finish what we have to finish, President Trump said on Monday. What nobody else has been able to finish, were going to be able to do it.Advertisement• Andrew McCabe, the bureaus deputy director, had been widely expected to retire soon, but he abruptly stepped down on Monday, saying he felt pressure to leave.President Trump has long criticized Mr. McCabe, who was at the center of inquiries into Hillary Clintons use of a private email server and the Trump campaigns connections to Russia. During an unsuccessful run for office, Mr. McCabes wife received campaign donations from the political organization of Terry McAuliffe, a friend of Mrs. Clintons.• Also on Monday, Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee voted to release a contentious secret memo that is said to accuse the Justice Department and the F.B.I. of misusing their authority in the Russia investigation. Democrats say the memo, which is being reviewed by the White House, is part of an effort to undercut the inquiry.• The Winter Games begin next week in Pyeongchang, South Korea, and The Times Magazine gets us in the spirit.Our essays explain the workout that saves the skier Lindsey Vonn from wiping out, the hidden drama of speedskating and the curious crowd favorite, curling.• Want to launch yourself off a ramp like a freestyle-skiing Olympian? Heres how. (Kids, dont try this at home.)After the U.S. government said it would cut millions of dollars worth of security aid to Pakistan, violence in Afghanistan escalated. Are the two connected?• Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase announced today that they would form a health care company to serve their employees in the U.S., a project that could disrupt the industry.Advertisement• A little-noticed provision in the new tax law seeks to drive investment to parts of the U.S. that are still waiting for the economic recovery to arrive.• Pediatric and mental health experts are calling on Facebook to kill a messaging service introduced last month for children as young as 6.• A proposal circulating in the White House that would put the government in control of a 5G mobile broadband network was opposed by federal regulators and telecommunications companies.• The media company Tronc brought in two veterans to calm tensions at The Los Angeles Times and The New York Daily News.• U.S. stocks were down on Monday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Five things to help you get through flu season.• Retiring early could lengthen your life.• Recipe of the day: Spicy beef stir-fry with basil can be on the table in 15 minutes.• The super blue blood moonLunar eclipses are not uncommon, but the one early Wednesday will be special. We explain when and where you can see it.Advertisement• A homecoming after 50 yearsAs part of an urban renewal project in 1967, tenants were forced out of a tenement on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.They were promised they would be able to return when the buildings were finished.  Some finally have.• Cleveland Indians to drop Chief WahooPressured by baseballs commissioner, the team will stop using the caricature of a Native American on its uniforms in 2019.Some view the logo as offensive and outdated, but its cherished by others.Get a nightly rundown of the days top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Best of late-night TVThe comedy hosts are looking forward to tonights State of the Union address.• Quotation of the dayIts 2018, and there are young men and women now being sent over there who were literally in diapers when we first sent troops to Afghanistan.— Will Fischer, a former Marine lance corporal, on the long U.S. involvement in the Afghan war.• The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.The U.S. government had ordered that all people of Japanese ancestry be forcibly removed from their homes on the West Coast. Fred Korematsu, then 23, tried changing his name and even underwent plastic surgery in hopes of carrying on as a normal citizen.AdvertisementBut he was arrested on a street corner in San Leandro, Calif., in May 1942.Today is the eighth annual Fred Korematsu Day of Civil Liberties and the Constitution. In 2010, Arnold Schwarzenegger, then Californias governor, established the first statewide day in U.S. history honoring an Asian-American, and several other states followed suit. New York City is holding its inaugural celebration today.Mr. Korematsu fought the discriminatory federal order, bringing his case to the Supreme Court in 1944. The court sided with the government, ruling that national security outweighed civil liberties.It took nearly 40 years for Mr. Korematsus conviction to be overturned in Federal District Court in San Francisco, though the 1944 Supreme Court ruling still stands.Mr. Korematsu remained a civil rights activist for the rest of his life. President Bill Clinton awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nations highest civilian honor, in 1998. (Heres the video.)Inyoung Kang contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Sunday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive momentOur critics and reporters offer a glimpse of whats moved and delighted them on YouTube. Read the rest of our classical music coverage here.at 2 minutes 20 secondsPresident Trumps push to build a costly wall along the United States-Mexico border is at the center of American politics. So it was moving to see how music can transcend the wall that currently separates California from Tijuana, as American and Mexican musicians gathered on both sides on Jan. 27 to perform John Luther Adamss Inuksuit, part of a monthlong percussion festival at the San Diego Symphony, programmed by Steven Schick. Watch, from the Tijuana side, as musicians play and the audience peers through a metal mesh wall at their counterparts on the American side — the avant-garde music equivalent of David Bowies Heroes. MICHAEL COOPERRead Alex Rosss report on the performance in The New Yorker.at 17 minutes 47 secondsYoung Concert Artists, which has fostered the careers of emerging musicians for 57 seasons, had a first on Wednesday: a live stream to its Facebook page of a recital by two YCA winners at Merkin Concert Hall. The fine violinist Benjamin Baker, 28, joined by the gifted pianist Daniel Lebhardt, brought virtuosity, refinement and youthful exuberance to a daunting program that included Brittens Op. 6 Suite and Elgars rhapsodic Sonata in E minor (from 1919), along with an inventive premiere by Tonia Ko for solo violin. For me, the high point came at the start, with their magnificent account of Schuberts Fantasy in C, a late masterpiece that would be played all the time were it not so difficult. I especially like the touch of sly Hungarian dance they brought to the first statement of the Allegrettos vigorous main theme. (The players dont take the stage until almost 14 minutes into the video. Just scan ahead. Its worth it.) ANTHONY TOMMASINIAt 1 minute 24 secondsThomas Adèss annual visit to the Boston Symphony Orchestra last week did not disappoint. There was Beethoven that giggled with cleverness, Stravinsky both steely and sumptuous, and a deliciously overblown suite from the composer-conductors own opera Powder Her Face. Best of all by far, though, was a smoking account of Ligetis Violin Concerto. Augustin Hadelich, the soloist, ordinarily strikes me as simply a very, very good violinist, but he played this 1992 classic with scarcely believable commitment, as if it were a repertoire piece with which he was determined to make his name. Heres the cadenza to the final movement. Mr. Adès wrote it in 2013, but theres no sense of the composers own distinctive voice. Instead, it blends in seamlessly: sketching out what has come before, all the while pushing through the bounds of virtuosity. DAVID ALLENAt 8 minutes 44 secondsWhen Steve Reich revives iconic pieces, tickets tend to sell briskly. But no one should overlook his newer works. The premiere recording of Pulse (2015) was released this week by Nonesuch Records. Members of the International Contemporary Ensemble engage in it with the composers sly, late-career manner of balancing tension and release. For much of the 14-minute piece, the electric bass sticks to a mostly rhythmic role. While strings and winds tease out Mr. Reichs rich, canon-style writing, the sole amplified instrument provides a smoothly running engine, but little more than that. That is, until everything changes and the bass breaks free of its established pattern, twisting from its otherwise restrained melodic profile. After this cascade of serenely unpredictable material, Mr. Reich gives the bassist a brief break. But when all the instruments come together, again, for the final minutes of the work, some of that same energy persists. SETH COLTER WALLSat 9 minutes 37 seconds Performers who are also active composers can bring special insights to repertory staples. This is certainly true of Stephen Hough, who gave a fascinating program at Carnegie Hall this week, juxtaposing several visionary Debussy works with major scores by Schumann and Beethoven. His recital sent me back to a performance he gave of Rachmaninoffs Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini in 2013 with the BBC Symphony Orchestra at the London Proms. In the first few minutes he astutely discusses the piece, playing excerpts. The performance is brilliantly crisp, no-nonsense, and stunningly fresh. About five minutes in, Mr. Hough makes a couple of gnarly, pummeling variations sound like outtakes from The Rite of Spring. ANTHONY TOMMASINIRead our review of Mr. Houghs Carnegie recital.AT 57 SECONDSHappy belated birthday to Schubert, who turned 221 on Wednesday. His song cycles have been on my mind since Jonas Kaufmann gave a performance of Die Schöne Müllerin at Carnegie Hall recently, with encores that dabbled in Schwanengesang and Winterreise. Mark Padmore, who has already recorded Winterreise with the pianist Paul Lewis, has just released another version of the cycle, accompanied by Kristian Bezuidenhout on a Schubert-era fortepiano. Mr. Padmore is a master of this music, but the surprise star of the record may be Mr. Bezuidenhout — or at least the revelatory brightness and twang of his piano. You can hear a taste of its sound in this video of the two performing Franz Lachners Das Fischermädchen (an homage to Schwanengesang). Mr. Bezuidenhout plays the Graf fortepiano with the kind of clarity and lyricism that make Winterreise worth, yes, yet another listen. JOSHUA BARONERead our review of Jonas Kaufmann at Carnegie Hall. AT 12 MINUTES 46 SECONDSLast weekend, Stéphane Denève led the New York Philharmonic in selections from Prokofievs Romeo and Juliet. The suite followed the ballets plot, which meant it excluded diverting interludes like Dance With Mandolins. This wasnt the first time moments like that were left out: Before the ballet had its Russian premiere in 1940, several years after Prokofiev wrote the score, he was forced to revise it heavily. The ending, once happy, became tragic, and a series of divertissements were cut. Still, Prokofiev found ways to recycle some of the music elsewhere — such as in his Fifth Symphony, which you can hear in this video of Valery Gergiev conducting the Mariinsky Orchestra. The exhilarating opening of the second movement is a scherzo passage originally meant for the ballet. If only we could hear more lost moments like this. Where is the suite of discarded Romeo dances? JOSHUA BARONERead more about the history of Prokofievs Romeo and Juliet.at 58 seconds When the Metropolitan Opera introduced its new production of Puccinis Tosca on New Years Eve, both the soprano Sonya Yoncheva, as Tosca, and the tenor Vittorio Grigolo, as Cavaradossi, were singing these touchstone roles for the first time. Though wonderful as Puccinis ill-fated lovers, they sounded a little green that night. But when I returned later in the run, they were in a zone, singing with fervor and intensity. I was reminded of Ms. Yonchevas Desdemona in the Mets 2015 production of Verdis Otello. Here, in an excerpt from the love duet (with Aleksandrs Antonenko as Otello) she conveys innocent vulnerability while also showing Desdemonas passion — early hints of a Tosca to come. ANTHONY TOMMASINIAdvertisementBy PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 28, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know:• Why attack a hotel? Why turn an ambulance into a car bomb?There appears to be a brutal calculus behind the Talibans intensified war on civilians in Afghanistan. (There were also explosions near Kabuls main military university overnight.)The countrys primary airline is struggling to operate after several staff members, including some Ukrainians, were killed in a hotel siege last week and more than 50 other employees fled.Still, a German chartered flight landed at Kabuls airport to repatriate 19 Afghan migrants._____• In Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has secured broad political backing for his offensive against Kurds in Syria. Our Istanbul bureau chief spent some time at the border, where many Turks told her they were eager for war.AdvertisementAnd a female Kurdish fighter carried out what appeared to be a suicide bombing on the Turkish military in Syria, destroying a tank and killing several Turkish soldiers with a grenade.Advertisement_____• Thousands of protesters across Russia braved icy temperatures to demonstrate against the lack of choice in the March presidential election in which Vladimir Putin is virtually certain to be re-elected.Separately, a Moscow movie theater that bucked an official ban on showing a British black comedy about Stalins death has halted screenings after a police raid.In Washington, wealthy Russians have aggressively campaigned against the publication of a list of oligarchs that the Trump administration is expected to release today._____• European election roundup: Czech voters decided to stick with President Milos Zeman, above, and his euroskeptic populism in the presidential election runoff, in part thanks to a high turnout in the countryside.In Finland, President Sauli Niinisto was elected to a second six-year term. (Many have missed the enlivening presence of Lennu, the first dog, during a largely uneventful campaign season.)And a runoff on Sunday will decide presidential elections in Cyprus after no candidate won an overall majority in the first round._____• Bots for sale: Fake accounts infest the worlds social media platforms, our investigation shows, and nearly 15 percent of Twitters active users may be bots.AdvertisementSocial media companies struggle to respond as celebrities, athletes and politicians buy millions of fake followers._____• At the Grammy Awards, Bruno Mars swept the top categories, winning album, record and song of the year.Ed Sheeran won best pop solo performance for Shape of You. Alessia Cara won best new artist. Kraftwerk won best dance/electronic album.Women of the music industry came together for a #MeToo moment. Hillary Clinton made an unexpected cameo.Heres the full list of winners, where you can also listen to the songs. Heres our full coverage.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A decade after the financial crisis, the world has hit a key marker of recovery. All of the worlds big economies are growing. Europe has emerged as a growth leader.• The winner at Davos was China, our Shanghai bureau chief writes, as many world leaders and executives courted an initiative, Belt and Road, that is intended to spread Beijings influence abroad.• Ingvar Kamprad, a Swedish entrepreneur whose ambition built the Ikea retail empire, died at 91. His success was shadowed by alcoholism, ostensible frugality and his fascination with fascism.Advertisement• Facebook, Google and others are working overtime to be ready for stringent data protection rules that will take effect in Europe in May.•  Heres a snapshot of global markets and what could move them this week, including tech and oil earnings.• Heavy snow brought relief and joy to many in drought-struck Iran. [The New York Times]• Legislation in Poland that would outlaw blaming Poles for the crimes of the Holocaust has prompted furious condemnation from Israelis across the political spectrum. [The New York Times]• Spains Constitutional Court ruled that Carlos Puigdemont, the Catalan separatist leader who remains wanted on possible sedition charges, would have to return to Barcelona to be chosen as Catalonias new leader. [Associated Press]• President Trump told a British broadcaster that he would be tougher in Brexit negotiations than the government of Prime Minister Theresa May. [Associated Press]• The Irish prime minister, Leo Varadkar, will after all campaign in favor of ending his countrys constitutional ban on abortion. [The New York Times]• Saudi Arabias most prominent investor, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, has been freed from detention at a luxury hotel in Riyadh. It is widely assumed that he purchased his freedom by handing over a chunk of his fortune. [The New York Times]• Voters in Bolivia told President Evo Morales in a referendum that it was time to retire. But he intends to run again, part of a tilt toward authoritarian tendencies in Latin America. [The New York Times]Advertisement• A French mountain climber who had been stranded on a treacherous peak in Pakistan was rescued, but her Polish climbing partner remained in peril. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Heres how to make sure your medicine makes it through customs.• This year, travel with wellness in mind.• Start the week with a red lentil stew spiced with turmeric, chili and ginger.• Conservationists are using elephants fear of bees to protect the endangered animals from farmers and poachers.• Roger Federer, 36, won the Australian Open under a controversially closed roof. It was his 20th Grand Slam singles title. Caroline Wozniacki won her first.• The African Nations Championship in Morocco is a lucrative marketplace for soccer talent scouts who can facilitate a move to Europe.• What does a suffering person want to hear? In our Opinion section, a woman living with a serious cancer weighed in.• At Yale, a course that tells students how to lead more satisfying lives may be the most popular in the universitys history.AdvertisementHe was born in San Francisco and named after a Confederate general. But he died as a celebrated poet of the United States and its people, especially the flinty farmers of New England.Robert Frost, whose life was full of paradoxes, died on this day in 1963 in a Boston hospital. A gifted observer of nature and the human spirit, he won four Pulitzer Prizes and spoke at John F. Kennedys inauguration in 1961.Frost lived for years in Vermont and New Hampshire, initially working as a farmer, reporter and shoemaker. His poetry, including works like The Road Not Taken and Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening, used colloquial language and spoke to an urbanized generation that longed for the simplicities of rural life.I dont like to write anything I dont see, he said before his 88th birthday.But he had no illusions about the life of the soil, The Times noted the day after his death in 1963, in part because he knew it could be spiritually crippling and physically exhausting.Mike Ives contributed reporting._____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 28, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know:• Why attack a hotel? Why turn an ambulance into a car bomb?There appears to be a brutal calculus behind the Talibans intensified war on civilians in Afghanistan. (There were also explosions near Kabuls main military university overnight.)The countrys primary airline is struggling to operate after several staff members, including some Ukrainians, were killed in a hotel siege last week and more than 50 other employees fled.Still, a German chartered flight landed at Kabuls airport to repatriate 19 Afghan migrants._____• In Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has secured broad political backing for his offensive against Kurds in Syria. Our Istanbul bureau chief spent some time at the border, where many Turks told her they were eager for war.AdvertisementAnd a female Kurdish fighter carried out what appeared to be a suicide bombing on the Turkish military in Syria, destroying a tank and killing several Turkish soldiers with a grenade.Advertisement_____• Thousands of protesters across Russia braved icy temperatures to demonstrate against the lack of choice in the March presidential election in which Vladimir Putin is virtually certain to be re-elected.Separately, a Moscow movie theater that bucked an official ban on showing a British black comedy about Stalins death has halted screenings after a police raid.In Washington, wealthy Russians have aggressively campaigned against the publication of a list of oligarchs that the Trump administration is expected to release today._____• European election roundup: Czech voters decided to stick with President Milos Zeman, above, and his euroskeptic populism in the presidential election runoff, in part thanks to a high turnout in the countryside.In Finland, President Sauli Niinisto was elected to a second six-year term. (Many have missed the enlivening presence of Lennu, the first dog, during a largely uneventful campaign season.)And a runoff on Sunday will decide presidential elections in Cyprus after no candidate won an overall majority in the first round._____• Bots for sale: Fake accounts infest the worlds social media platforms, our investigation shows, and nearly 15 percent of Twitters active users may be bots.AdvertisementSocial media companies struggle to respond as celebrities, athletes and politicians buy millions of fake followers._____• At the Grammy Awards, Bruno Mars swept the top categories, winning album, record and song of the year.Ed Sheeran won best pop solo performance for Shape of You. Alessia Cara won best new artist. Kraftwerk won best dance/electronic album.Women of the music industry came together for a #MeToo moment. Hillary Clinton made an unexpected cameo.Heres the full list of winners, where you can also listen to the songs. Heres our full coverage.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A decade after the financial crisis, the world has hit a key marker of recovery. All of the worlds big economies are growing. Europe has emerged as a growth leader.• The winner at Davos was China, our Shanghai bureau chief writes, as many world leaders and executives courted an initiative, Belt and Road, that is intended to spread Beijings influence abroad.• Ingvar Kamprad, a Swedish entrepreneur whose ambition built the Ikea retail empire, died at 91. His success was shadowed by alcoholism, ostensible frugality and his fascination with fascism.Advertisement• Facebook, Google and others are working overtime to be ready for stringent data protection rules that will take effect in Europe in May.•  Heres a snapshot of global markets and what could move them this week, including tech and oil earnings.• Heavy snow brought relief and joy to many in drought-struck Iran. [The New York Times]• Legislation in Poland that would outlaw blaming Poles for the crimes of the Holocaust has prompted furious condemnation from Israelis across the political spectrum. [The New York Times]• Spains Constitutional Court ruled that Carlos Puigdemont, the Catalan separatist leader who remains wanted on possible sedition charges, would have to return to Barcelona to be chosen as Catalonias new leader. [Associated Press]• President Trump told a British broadcaster that he would be tougher in Brexit negotiations than the government of Prime Minister Theresa May. [Associated Press]• The Irish prime minister, Leo Varadkar, will after all campaign in favor of ending his countrys constitutional ban on abortion. [The New York Times]• Saudi Arabias most prominent investor, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, has been freed from detention at a luxury hotel in Riyadh. It is widely assumed that he purchased his freedom by handing over a chunk of his fortune. [The New York Times]• Voters in Bolivia told President Evo Morales in a referendum that it was time to retire. But he intends to run again, part of a tilt toward authoritarian tendencies in Latin America. [The New York Times]Advertisement• A French mountain climber who had been stranded on a treacherous peak in Pakistan was rescued, but her Polish climbing partner remained in peril. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Heres how to make sure your medicine makes it through customs.• This year, travel with wellness in mind.• Start the week with a red lentil stew spiced with turmeric, chili and ginger.• Conservationists are using elephants fear of bees to protect the endangered animals from farmers and poachers.• Roger Federer, 36, won the Australian Open under a controversially closed roof. It was his 20th Grand Slam singles title. Caroline Wozniacki won her first.• The African Nations Championship in Morocco is a lucrative marketplace for soccer talent scouts who can facilitate a move to Europe.• What does a suffering person want to hear? In our Opinion section, a woman living with a serious cancer weighed in.• At Yale, a course that tells students how to lead more satisfying lives may be the most popular in the universitys history.AdvertisementHe was born in San Francisco and named after a Confederate general. But he died as a celebrated poet of the United States and its people, especially the flinty farmers of New England.Robert Frost, whose life was full of paradoxes, died on this day in 1963 in a Boston hospital. A gifted observer of nature and the human spirit, he won four Pulitzer Prizes and spoke at John F. Kennedys inauguration in 1961.Frost lived for years in Vermont and New Hampshire, initially working as a farmer, reporter and shoemaker. His poetry, including works like The Road Not Taken and Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening, used colloquial language and spoke to an urbanized generation that longed for the simplicities of rural life.I dont like to write anything I dont see, he said before his 88th birthday.But he had no illusions about the life of the soil, The Times noted the day after his death in 1963, in part because he knew it could be spiritually crippling and physically exhausting.Mike Ives contributed reporting._____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
JAN. 31, 2018
Updated 8:13 a.m.Good morning on this ice-cold Wednesday.In Manhattan, beneath a graveyard where Mayor Edward I. Koch, John Jacob Astor and more than 100 other New York City notables are buried, there lies a crypt.And in that crypt — a cavernous space with dark corners, vaulted ceilings and the ashes of past parishioners — you may listen to classical music.Crypt Sessions, which begins tomorrow underneath the Church of the Intercession, by Trinity Church Cemetery in Washington Heights, was started by the musician Andrew Ousley, who has also produced classical and opera concerts in a metal works factory in Gowanus.Its a space that you just dont expect to find in New York, he said of the 2,000-square-foot crypt. Youre running around outside — youve got bars, restaurants, et cetera — and you go, out of nowhere, through this cemetery and into a space that is just completely transformative.AdvertisementThe recitals, which Mr. Ousley described as communion-like, not religious, put a new spin on old masters like Mozart and Beethoven.AdvertisementThe goal is to shift some of the preconceptions that people have around classical music, some of the negative stigma around the concert experience, he said.Of course, taking classical music out of the concert hall has been done before in the city. Over the years, string quartets, pianists and other musicians have played classical music in these and other unconventional venues around town:• On subway platforms• On a coal barge by the Brooklyn Bridge• At the Bronx Zoo• At Madame Tussauds in Times Square• In the Arms and Armor Court at the Met• At homeless shelters and soup kitchens• In the Hall of Saurischian Dinosaurs at the American Museum of Natural HistoryThe Thursday evening crypt concert is sold out, but you can join the mailing list for tickets to the next performance, in March, which will go on sale Friday morning.Heres what else is happening:Chilly, but lovely.Sunny skies and a high around 35 — a lucky break for early risers who got to see the super blue blood moon this morning just before 6 a.m.• Kevin Corbett, a top executive at a global construction and engineering firm, will become the next executive director of the struggling New Jersey Transit. [New York Times]• The Republican state senator John A. DeFrancisco is planning to vacate his seat to challenge Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in the governors race. [New York Times]Advertisement• Citing strong support from surveyed residents, Hobokens mayor said he will move forward with plans of changing a waterfront industrial site into a park, despite opposition from a ferry company. [New York Times]• A federal judge in Manhattan ordered the immediate release of the immigrant rights activist Ravi Ragbir, calling his detention unconstitutional and cruel. [New York Times]• With over 3,000 people hospitalized, this years outbreak of influenza is proving to be the worst in nearly a decade. [New York Times]• Columbia University announced that it would not bargain with graduate students who voted to unionize, sending the case to federal court. [New York Times]• Prosecutors in the case of a New York City police sergeant who fatally shot a mentally ill woman say that the officer ignored his training, which led to the chaos resulting in her death. [New York Times]• The State Senate revised its policy on sexual harassment, adding a sentence that says false accusations are a serious act. [New York Times]• New York University, along with other colleges, is offering refuge to students from Puerto Rico whose college careers were interrupted as a result of Hurricane Maria. [New York Times]• A special election is needed to fill the State Senate seat left vacant by George Latimer, a Democrat, who won the race for Westchester County executive. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• In About New York, the columnist Jim Dwyer describes the troubling effects of a law in the title insurance industry. [New York Times]Advertisement• New Yorkers will be able to see the blood moon early Wednesday morning, when the moon will turn a copper-like color around 6 a.m. [New York Times]• Neighbors of a man who was fatally shot by police in the Bronx are eager to view the body cam footage; they are suspicious of the way the victim was subdued. [PIX 11]• Mayor Bill de Blasio walked the red carpet at the Grammys, but he was not allowed entry because of city ethics codes barring him. [New York Post]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Lesson in Select Bus Service• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• NYC Restaurant Week continues with deals on three-course lunches ($29) and dinners ($42) at hundreds of restaurants across the city, through Feb. 9.• Wild Medicine in the Tropics, an exhibition exploring the healing power of exotic plants, at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. [Prices vary]• Dr. Tenzin Dakpa leads a workshop on Tibetan astrology and divination, exploring health and auspiciousness, at the Rubin Museum of Art in Chelsea. 7 p.m. [$20]• Residents of the five boroughs can receive a 40 percent discount on tickets to the Off Broadway hit Blue Man Group, at Astor Place Theatre in NoHo. Times and prices vary.Advertisement• Islanders at Maple Leafs, 7:30 p.m. (MSG+). Nets host 76ers, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks at Celtics, 8 p.m. (NBCSB).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Our local rinks — or a movie about a certain figure skater — may have recently reacquainted you with the grace, beauty and occasional disasters of ice skating.Ice skating, it turns out, goes way back in the city.It began with a colonial canal, in the vicinity of what we now know as Broad Street in Lower Manhattan, which became a popular skating rink for Dutch and English settlers.Nearby ponds were similarly repurposed, long before Central Park became a celebrated skating destination in the late 19th century.The popularity of the pastime, and the number of rinks, grew as technology advanced. The Zamboni and tractors with ice scrapers were invented, replacing horse-drawn ice-cleaners, in the first half of the 20th century. The beloved Rink at Rockefeller Center opened in 1936.New York on Ice: Skating in the City, a new exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, explores these developments and more. Tonight, skating experts look forward, not back, exploring the future of skating in the city.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MIKE IVESJAN. 30, 2018
Good morning. The State of the Union address in Washington, a fight over thin air and an epic lunar eclipse. Heres your Morning Briefing:• This is our new American moment.That was President Trump in his first State of the Union speech. He asked Democrats to join him in overhauling immigration and rebuilding infrastructure. He praised tax cuts and the continued progress of the economy he inherited.But his successes have not changed the dismal views that a sizable majority of Americans hold of him.Heres our briefing with commentary by our correspondents and a video stream. A team of reporters fact-checked Mr. Trumps claims.Ahead of the address, a U.S. business group warned that China would retaliate against U.S. industries if Mr. Trump imposed tariffs on Chinese exports, like solar panels._____• China and Taiwan are arguing over thin air.With Chinese military drills encroaching on Taiwans airspace, Taiwan this month rejected new flights from two Chinese commercial carriers. It said they had been flying sensitive new routes in the Taiwan Strait without first asking Taiwans permission.AdvertisementThe carriers have now canceled 176 planned flights around the Lunar New Year, in mid-February — flights that would normally take home thousands of Taiwanese who work in China.Advertisement_____•  Russian leaders expressed outrage over a name-and-shame list issued by the U.S. Treasury Department that identified 210 senior Russian political and business figures.At the same time, the Trump administration has declined to impose new sanctions in accordance with a law intended to punish the Kremlin for election interference — even though the C.I.A. director warns of more interference to come in the U.S. 2018 midterms.The tensions arent just political. U.S. officials said a Russian fighter jet came within a scant five feet of a U.S. spy plane, like the one above, over the Black Sea._____•  Attacks in Kabul have killed more than 130 people over the last 10 days. Distraught and angry Afghans are asking why the government cannot protect its own heavily militarized capital.On our podcast The Daily, our Kabul correspondent discusses the connection between the wave of violence and the U.S. governments cutoff of security aid to Pakistan.And a veteran journalist argues in an Op-Ed that U.S. military aims in Afghanistan are riddled with contradictions (and illusions) that Pakistans spy agency exploits._____• I would definitely not like to be a Manning, or a Snowden, or an Assange.That was Nathan Ruser, the 20-year-old Australian National University student who shook security experts around the world with his revelation that the fitness app Strava exposes the locations of U.S. and other military bases in Afghanistan, Syria and beyond.AdvertisementHe credits part of his discovery with private group chats on Twitter, which experts say are increasingly important forums for cybersecurity discussions._____• Super blood blue moon rising.Earth will cast its shadow today over a full moon, turning it red like a giant rose in the predawn sky, our science correspondent writes. Its going to be super cool.Viewers in Asia and Australia should (for the most part) have the best seats in the global house.For further lunar background, see our handy moon guide._____What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase shook the U.S. health insurance market, announcing a plan to form a tech-based, independent health care company to serve employees.• Indias leading ride-hailing service, Ola, said that it would launch in Australia this year. The company said recently that it had raised $1.1 billion for expansion. Its investors include Tencent Holdings and SoftBank.• Uber for pooches? The SoftBank Vision Fund, a nearly $100 billion pot managed by the Japanese billionaire Masayoshi Son, is investing $300 million in Wag, a start-up based in Los Angeles whose app lets users summon dogwalkers.• U.S. stocks fell. Heres a snapshot of global markets.• Prime Minister Teresa May of Britain is scheduled to arrive in China today, with trade high on her agenda for meetings in Wuhan, Beijing and Shanghai. [BBC]• In India, the rape of an 8-month-old girl has sickened and transfixed a country grown distressingly accustomed to horrifying sex abuse cases. [The New York Times]Advertisement• Hawaiis false alert of an inbound ballistic missile was issued intentionally, after a state worker missed the announcement of a drill. [The New York Times]• Macaus gaming regulator said it had met with representatives of Stephen Wynn, a billionaire casino magnate and prominent political donor in the U.S., amid allegations that he engaged in a long pattern of sexual misconduct with employees. [Reuters]• An Op-Ed writer takes issue with what she saw as the Grammy awards programs slut-shaming of Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the U.N. [The New York Times]• Dozens of medical experts called on Facebook to kill its new messaging app that targets children as young as 6. [The New York Times]• Ferry McFerryface will be rechristened. Officials had initially said Sydney ferrys name was the result of a public poll that cost taxpayers $100,000 Australian (about $81,000 U.S.). But a news report revealed that it was handpicked by a transport official. [9NEWS]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Yes, you can stream many of this years Oscar-nominated films, including The Big Sick, above.• Figuring out how to rebuild after infidelity often results in a stronger relationship.• Order delivery and make an easy chocolate fudge for dessert.• Our Frugal Traveler offers a guide to traveling in and around China: cheap phone service, useful apps and getting online.Advertisement• Andreas Gursky, a best-selling German photographer, captures scenes that never existed. We reviewed his new retrospective in London.• Lunch with Bill Gates: Our columnist joined Mr. Gates and Steven Pinker, a psychology professor at Harvard University, for pizza. They had a wide-ranging conversation about politics, poverty and evolution.• New York commuters once looked down upon other mass-transit systems. Our new documentary explains why the citys oft-delayed trains are now a global laughingstock.Milkshake duck just missed a spot in the Oxford Dictionaries, but the phrase was honored this month by Australias Macquarie Dictionary, which declared it the word of the year for 2017.Confused? Even if you dont know the word, you know the phenomenon, the committee said in its announcement.The phrase describes when a persons 15 minutes of fame is followed by an abrupt fall from grace when distasteful past misdeeds are unearthed. In many ways, the committee said, that term captured the events of the past year.The Australian cartoonist Ben Ward wrote an absurd tweet in 2016 about the phenomenon that raced across the internet last year.The whole internet loves Milkshake Duck, a lovely duck that drinks milkshakes! *5 seconds later* We regret to inform you the duck is racistAdvertisementThe joke poked at the ridiculous ability of social media to accelerate the cycle of adulation and backlash, Mr. Ward told us last summer, when we analyzed the memes meteoric rise. I didnt mean it to mock anyone — Im as susceptible to it as anyone else is, Mr. Ward added.Isabella Kwai contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Browse past briefings here. We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Restaurant Review By                     
 PETE WELLS
 
JAN. 30, 2018

CreditSasha Maslov for The New York Times        One thing that sets Rich Torrisi and Mario Carbone apart from other very talented chefs is how happy they seem to be creating restaurants that are not about them, or even primarily about cooking. While their peers were putting their kitchen skill front and center, through tasting menus or through restaurants where decoration was minimal and amenities were pared back until there was almost nothing left but the plates, they went in the opposite direction.From their first restaurant, Torrisi Italian Specialties, inside a fake Italian grocery store, their places have been highly distracting in ways that serious chefs tend to shun. The interiors are ornamental and over the top; the servers are dressed in uniforms that we might as well call costumes; the playlists are what your friend for whom entertaining is a life-or-death matter would put together for a highly specific theme party.Other chefs would have worried that their precious food would be overshadowed by the rest of the production. Mr. Torrisi and Mr. Carbone always seemed confident that wasnt going to happen. Before they opened their Japanese restaurant, the Lobster Club, they were right.Now two months old, the Lobster Club is the third and final stage in the annexation of the Seagram Buildings dining spaces by the Major Food Group, run by the two chefs and Jeff Zalaznick. The first two stages were the Grill and the Pool, carved out of what used to be the Four Seasons.AdvertisementThe Lobster Club sits under the Pool in a space that was originally a 24-hour brasserie. Vintage East Siders such as Peter Marino, the architect who designed the Lobster Club, still talk about dropping into the Brasserie for onion soup after writhing the night away at Studio 54.AdvertisementMr. Marino apparently wanted to bring the party back. From the top of the stairs just inside the entrance, on East 53rd Street, a scene from Fellini seems to be playing out. A big square lounge in the middle of the room is bounded by zebra-striped panels of white ebony. Spurts and dribbles of paint cover the floor and the black trousers that some of the servers are wearing. It looks as if Jackson Pollock were called back for one last job.On the walls are prints Mr. Marino made from paintings he owns. The originals were painted by Richard Prince, modeled on paintings by Picasso. The Prince Picasso-painting prints have themselves been painted, gone over by Mr. Marino with thick pigment in a completely different style.Marvin Gaye is singing. He wants everybody to know that sexual healing is something that is good for him.Round tables are surrounded by pink lounge chairs that look, from behind, like enormous cartoon lips. The booths are upholstered in a chartreuse camouflage pattern, a useful fabric if the Army ever needs to hide in a green neon jungle.Blending in at the Lobster Club in winter means fur coats and designer sweaters. A man with silver hair, a double-breasted blazer and a pocket square is circling the perimeter, swiveling his head, an eager expression in his eyes, as if he had been told there would be a limbo pole. On the right, a big group is sitting around a skinny table that can be partitioned from the rest of the dining area by drawing a floor-to-ceiling curtain, as in an operating room. The curtain is made of black leather.All the bartenders are dressed like leather daddies.Isaac Hayes is singing now. He has some thoughts to share about a black private dick whos a sex machine to all the chicks.What kind of Japanese restaurant is this?It would need to be a sensational one to compete with the rest of the goings-on. It is not. In fact, the Lobster Club seems to be making an effort not to be sensational. The cooking, as a whole, suggests Japanese food as seen through American eyes at some point in the recent past.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.There is no soup, no noodles, no tofu and few vegetables. But there is salmon teriyaki, made more meticulously than any Ive ever seen, with a dark-pink medium-rare core and a translucent, unsyrupy glaze.AdvertisementThe core of the menu is steak and seafood cooked on a teppan, the steel grill introduced to the United States by the original Benihana, which by the way is still in business a few blocks away. Not that Lobster Club is an explicit homage. If its cooks are juggling spatulas and flipping shrimp into the air, they are doing it behind closed kitchen doors.My Wagyu skirt steak was a far better product than anything I remember from Benihana. Ditto the teppanyaki king mushroom stems that accompanied it along with more shishito peppers than I needed and more sauces than I can name. The mustard miso was my favorite with steak; for grilled scallops, I would go with the yuzu chimichurri.Tasuku Murakami, the executive chef, was highly regarded during his time behind the counter at Sushi Azabu, in TriBeCa. He has his seafood shipped in from Japan, including seasonal treats like black-throat sea perch and tiny white shrimp called shiro-ebi. He, or one of his followers, carves it with finesse and sets it over a wad of rice that I wished were a little warmer and more strongly vinegared.The style is very traditional, except for the rolls that combine, say, fried oysters with Wagyu. The à la carte prices are on average slightly higher than at slightly better places such as 15 East. It would be silly not to try some sushi at the Lobster Club, and just as silly to travel there for it.Two skewered appetizers were among my favorite things on the menu. One is the pork belly, lightly browned on the grill and then half-buried under a chopped pineapple sauce. The other is the tsukune, or chicken meatball, which is richer than you expect thanks to an unadvertised, invisible but very noticeable addition of foie gras.Some of Mr. Murakamis appetizers struck me as barely Japanese at all. Certain raw fish dishes could be served at any number of New York restaurants, like slices of sea bass showered with brittle strands of fried brussels sprouts, or raw cherry trout twirled around crunchy nests of fried potato threads. Both are fine things to eat, by the way. The one called wok lobster — battered and fried lobster tail pieces in a sweet-and-sour sauce — seems very Chinese. It is also very oily, like the fried rock shrimp and the teppanyaki garlic rice, which will ooze oil as you watch.I didnt expect it to remind me of Ruby Foos, said a stranger who stopped by my table on her way out. (This kind of thing is always happening at the Lobster Club.) I think I knew what she meant. If you order the wrong things the food can be surprisingly heavy, and no matter what you eat you cant quite avoid a sense that this place doesnt take its supposed inspiration as seriously as it could.Then again, it is one of the only places in the city where you can end a meal with steamed black-sugar cakes, soft and homey and rarely seen outside their hometown, Okinawa. And it is among the few to serve kakigori, a mountain of shaved ice. Stephanie Prida, the pastry chef, soaks it with blood orange-syrup on one side and condensed milk on the other.As soon as one table orders it, everybody else in the vicinity wants one. Ive never seen anybody finish it.AdvertisementFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.98 East 53rd Street(Park Avenue)Midtown East212-375-9001websiteAtmosphere Leather–boy and –girl bartenders; 70s soul; expensively repurposed art; white ebony. Servers are well versed in the clubs arcane lore and customs.Sound Shouting is not required, but raised voices may be.Recommended Dishes Sea bass and crispy sprouts; coconut rock shrimp; chicken tsukune; barbecue pork jowl; all teppanyaki dishes; blood orange kakigori; Okinawa cake. Appetizers, $12 to $37; main courses, $31 to $85, with higher market-priced items.Drinks and Wine The drinks list is long on sake and European wines, including trophy labels, but short on choices under $60.Price $$$$ (very expensive)Open Monday to Saturday for dinner.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access The dining room and an accessible restroom are served by an elevator from the building lobby.
What the Stars Mean
            Ratings range from zero to four stars. Zero is poor, fair or satisfactory. One star, good. Two stars, very good. Three stars, excellent. Four stars, extraordinary.
        
                This information was last updated: Jan. 30, 2018 A version of this review appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Where Food Has to Compete for Attention.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Rachael DenhollanderOn Jan. 16, women and girls from across the country began congregating in a courtroom in Lansing, Mich. Some of us were athletes; some of us were not. Some of us were white; some of us were black. Some of us were married; some of us were still in high school. Many of us had never met.But we shared one core, unifying experience: sexual assault at the hands of Larry Nassar. And we had one core, unifying goal: facing our abuser and confronting the culture that allowed him to prey on us without fear or punishment.It felt surreal at first — finally putting names and faces to the numbered Jane Doe designations I had wanted for so long to protect. But the pain we shared knit us together instantly. We knew what to do when someone began to weep or shake in court, because each of us had cried those tears before. We knew what to say when a grieving survivor expressed guilt or doubt, because we had experienced that same shame.Over the course of the trial, we became an army determined to expose the greatest sexual assault scandal in sports history. And we succeeded. After 156 of us gave statements, Judge Rosemarie Aquilina sentenced him on Wednesday to 40 to 175 years.But on Aug. 29, 2016, when I filed the first police complaint against Larry Nassar for sexually abusing me when I was a 15-year-old girl and chose to release a very public story detailing what he had done, it felt like a shot in the dark. I came as prepared as possible: I brought medical journals showing what real pelvic floor technique looks like; my medical records, which showed that Larry had never mentioned that he used such techniques even though he had penetrated me; the names of three pelvic floor experts ready to testify to police that Larrys treatment was not medical; other records from a nurse practitioner documenting my disclosure of abuse in 2004; my journals from that time; and a letter from a neighboring district attorney vouching for my character. I worried that any less meant I would not be believed — a concern I later learned was merited.My education as a lawyer prepared me for the process and presentation. But absolutely nothing could have prepared me for the pain of being the first to go public with my accusations in The Indianapolis Star.I lost my church. I lost my closest friends as a result of advocating for survivors who had been victimized by similar institutional failures in my own community.I lost every shred of privacy.When a new friend searched my name online or added me as a friend on Facebook, the most intimate details of my life became available long before we had even exchanged phone numbers. I avoided the grocery stores on some days, to make sure my children didnt see my face on the newspaper or a magazine. I was asked questions about things no one should know when I least wanted to talk.And the effort it took to move this case forward — especially as some called me an ambulance chaser just looking for a payday — often felt crushing.Yet all of it served as a reminder: These were the very cultural dynamics that had allowed Larry Nassar to remain in power.I knew that the farthest I could run from my abuser, and the people that let him prey on children for decades, was to choose the opposite of what that man, and his enablers, had become. To choose to find and speak the truth, no matter what it cost.As the calls began coming in to the Michigan State University Police Department and the number of reports grew, my horror did as well. Victim after victim came forward. Some were abused when they were as young as 6 years old. Some were victimized nearly three decades ago, others only days before my report was filed. Far worse, victims began to come forward who had tried to sound the alarm years before I walked into that M.S.U. clinic to meet the celebrated doctor. Not only were they suffering the devastation of sexual assault; they were suffering deep wounds from having been silenced, blamed and often even sent back for continued abuse.More than 200 women have now alleged abuse by Larry Nassar. Even more staggering than that number is the revelation that at least 14 coaches, trainers, psychologists or colleagues had been warned of his abuse. What is truly stomach-turning is the realization that a vast majority of those victims were abused after his conduct was first reported by two teenagers to M.S.U.s head gymnastics coach as far back as 1997.So how did this happen? How, for 30 years, did this monster manage to prey on little girls and young women without being caught?Partly it is because Larry was an expert predator. He was calculating, deliberate and a master manipulator. Much of the abuse, mine included, took place with our own mothers in the room, their view casually blocked by Larry, his hand hidden under a towel, a sheet or loose clothing.But Larrys cunning is only a small piece of this story. Because most pedophiles present a wholesome persona, they are able to ingratiate themselves into communities. Research shows that pedophiles are also reported at least seven times on average before adults take the reports of abuse seriously and act on them. In many ways, the sexual assault scandal that was 30 years in the making was only a symptom of a much deeper cultural problem — the unwillingness to speak the truth against ones own community.The result of putting reputation and popularity ahead of girls and young women? The vile stories you heard in that courtroom this week, all of which could have been prevented.Now that the world has been transfixed by our case, we must make sure not even one more young woman is preyed upon as I was.The first step toward changing the culture that led to this atrocity is to hold enablers of abuse accountable. There is much that needs to be done legislatively, including extending or removing the statute of limitations on criminal and civil charges related to sexual assault, and strengthening mandatory reporting laws and ensuring truth in sentencing, so that dangerous offenders are not released early to damage more children.Most important, we need to encourage and support those brave enough to speak out. Predators rely on community protection to silence victims and keep them in power. Far too often, our commitment to our political party, our religious group, our sport, our college or a prominent member of our community causes us to choose to disbelieve or to turn away from the victim. Far too often, it feels easier and safer to see only what we want to see. Fear of jeopardizing some overarching political, religious, financial or other ideology — or even just losing friends or status — leads to willful ignorance of what is right in front of our own eyes, in the shape and form of innocent and vulnerable children.Ask yourself: How much is a child worth?Every decent human being knows the answer to that question. Now it is time to act like it.Rachael Denhollander is a lawyer in Louisville, Ky.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. videoAdvertisementBy PETER BAKER and PETER S. GOODMANJAN. 25, 2018
Several world leaders highlighted integration and cooperation as vital for the global economy ahead of President Trumps arrival at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.DAVOS, Switzerland — When President Trump arrived on Thursday at the conference center where the worlds financial and political elite have been meeting, onlookers crowded a balcony and craned their heads to see the leader who has challenged the very international order that Davos represents. At first, it was quiet. Then someone called out a question.Are you going to be treated well? he was asked.You tell me, Mr. Trump replied.The reverse question was unasked but hung in the air: How was he going to treat them?If he was not exactly entering the lions den, it was nonetheless a fraught moment for both sides as the America First president ventured into the lair of the we-are-the-world banking titans, corporate magnates and international leaders who have spent decades preaching the virtues of global integration.Rather than confrontation, both sides labored for conciliation, at least to a point. For one afternoon and evening, at least, Mr. Trump threw no protectionist grenades and even broached the possibility, however remote, that he would re-enter a Pacific trade agreement that he scrapped last year, if it were renegotiated. For its part, the Davos crowd welcomed its top critic with a reception and warm words.AdvertisementThe mood was strikingly different from a year ago, when Mr. Trump was about to take office and the globalists meeting in this mountaintop getaway reeled in shock, panicked that his campaign promises meant the end of the movement they had nurtured for decades.AdvertisementA year later, many of the business and political elites remain dismissive of him, privately rolling eyes and using words like madman, but there was excitement about economic growth, and the tax cuts and regulatory rollback he has ushered in.The real test of how the two sides will deal with each other will come Friday when Mr. Trump addresses the World Economic Forum. Mr. Trumps plan is not to stick his thumb in anyones eye, aides said, but to soberly promote his view that trade should be fair and reciprocal while selling his story of economic energy and soliciting foreign investment. Whether he will follow the script, they acknowledged, was anyones guess.The question is whether hes here to be congratulated by the billionaires of Davos or to scold them on behalf of the people who elected him, said Robert A. Johnson, president of the Institute for New Economic Thinking, a research institution in New York. He will act like hes doing both.Asked his message for Davos, Mr. Trump said: The real message is we want great prosperity and we want great peace, and I think thats the message. Its been going really well. A lot of people are coming back to the United States. We are seeing tremendous investment, and today has been a very exciting day.Davos has never encountered anyone quite like Mr. Trump. For one week each year, this ski town is transformed into a festival of deal-making capitalism, international wonkery, late-night parties and earnest save-the-world panel discussions. Heads of state, corporate chieftains, policymakers and celebrities slip and slide along icy streets to stop in glass-enclosed, tech-heavy spaces set up by countries like India and South Africa and companies like Facebook and Google along the Promenade, the main drag.At times, the tensions of the outside world follow them here. The Ukrainians were chagrined to discover this year that the space they rented at Promenade 73 turned out to be right across the street from Russia House at Promenade 72. Grim jokes ensued about the Russians crossing the road to take over a room in Ukraine House.Unlike other visitors, Mr. Trump did not wander the pavilions. He attended a reception in his honor by the forum, and then was host at a dinner for about 15 chief executives from firms like Siemens, Nokia, Nestle, HSBC, Anheuser-Busch and Bayer.AdvertisementAs the executives tucked into grilled beef tenderloin or fried Swiss pikeperch with purple carrot purée, Mr. Trump flattered them as some of the greatest business leaders in the world and invited them to talk about their businesses, much as he does at cabinet meetings back home. Like his cabinet secretaries, many of the guests volunteered praise of the president and gratitude for his efforts to cut taxes and regulation.The greeting did not surprise everyone. Trump made a Christmas gift to everyone with those tax rebates, said Charles-Edouard Bouée, chief executive of Roland Berger, a global consultancy with offices in Shanghai and Munich.Even leaders with grievances against the Trump administration seemed intent on playing up to him.I found him to be a different person from his public persona, Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi of Pakistan said at a breakfast on Thursday, recalling their encounter at the United Nations, while putting aside Mr. Trumps threat this month to suspend most security aid because of what he called Pakistans lies and deceit in dealing with terrorism. He is a very warm person and he engaged me.An aide to Mr. Trump who arrived before him expressed astonishment that he was being received so warmly by people he had criticized so harshly. But outside the presidents earshot, there was still plenty of skepticism and concern.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At a separate dinner on Thursday night, George Soros, the liberal financial trader and philanthropist, called Mr. Trump the vanguard of a new wave of authoritarian rulers that threatens open society.The survival of our entire civilization is at stake, said Mr. Soros, while pointing a finger at the rise of leaders like Kim Jong-un and Donald Trump.In the days before Mr. Trumps arrival, the leaders of India, Canada, France and Germany used a series of high-profile speeches to mount an aggressive defense of the global trading system, while other officials worried that Mr. Trump and other nationalists posed grave risks.The whole world is concerned that the United States is disengaging from the global trade arena, said Cecilia Malmstrom, trade minister for the European Union. Im extremely concerned.Unlike Bill Clinton, the only other sitting president to attend Davos, Mr. Trump has threatened to scrap the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada and a separate pact with South Korea in addition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP, that he withdrew from shortly after taking office. Before leaving Washington this week, he slapped new tariffs on imported solar panels and washing machines.AdvertisementBut as he has on immigration in recent days, Mr. Trump toggled between being hard-line and accommodating. In an interview with CNBC to be aired on Friday before his speech, Mr. Trump raised the possibility of rejoining the Pacific partnership, which was negotiated by President Barack Obama but never submitted to Congress amid bipartisan opposition.I would do TPP if we were able to make a substantially better deal, Mr. Trump said. The deal was terrible; the way it was structured was terrible. If we did a substantially better deal, I would be open to TPP.For other Davos participants, more disturbing than his trade views were his utterances on race and gender, most recently in his resistance to immigrants from Haiti and Africa.Its disappointing to be written off by some ill-judged words, said Nicky Newton-King, chief executive of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Our exchange is regarded as world class. Were completely proud of what were able to do in one of these countries the president is so dismissive of.Lynette Wallworth, a virtual reality filmmaker from Australia who has traveled the world to introduce viewers to diverse cultures, expressed hope that Mr. Trump would use his time here to absorb challenging points of view.He seems to talk about barriers, she said. He needs to listen to the people who are gathered here, who are trying to make an inclusive world.Tolu Oni, a professor at the University of Cape Town in South Africa, asked if Mr. Trump was capable of absorbing opinions that conflict with his preconceptions.I wonder what he will get from this, she said. I hope that in coming here, there is some degree of learning that national interests are not necessarily in contradiction with being a responsible global citizen.Elisabeth Bumiller, Keith Bradsher and Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker and Peter Goodman on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @petersgoodman.A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Titans Wary, But Warmer To President.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By KLAUS BIESENBACH, CHRISTOPHER GREGORY and ARIANA MCLAUGHLINJAN. 25, 2018
In the wake of Hurricane Marias crushing devastation of Puerto Rico, leaving half the island without power and the official death toll rising, Klaus Biesenbach, the director of MoMA PS1 and chief curator at large for the Museum of Modern Art, and Christopher Gregory, a Puerto Rican photojournalist based in New York, traveled together to see how artists were facing the challenges of a post-disaster island.Through decades of economic hardship, and years of financial crisis, the art world in Puerto Rico has had to learn to survive during lean times through a new artistic sharing economy — sharing knowledge; resources; and access to infrastructure, materials and spaces. Might these artists now serve as an example — and catalyst — for other communities?In Santurce, a district in San Juan, the visitors found Zilia Sánchez, 91, in the remnants of her studio where she had worked for nearly 50 years. Sunlight streamed through the jagged beams. There were no tarps to protect the roofless houses in her neighborhood, but Ms. Sánchez considered herself fortunate. Born in Havana in 1926, she settled here after years working abroad and is one of the most influential art teachers in Puerto Rico. Now her former students, including Jorge González, had come to help her rebuild her studio which she envisions with a protective concrete box around it, so she could continue to create the shaped paintings, suggesting female bodies, which look like ocean waves.Mr. González is now an internationally recognized artist who will be featured in a group show in July at the Whitney Museum of American Art. He took his teachers example to heart and extended his artistic practice to what can be called social practice — creating spaces for collective learning. He developed the Escuela de Oficios (Trade School), engaging participants in traditional artisanal techniques, including weaving with plant-based materials found in nature.AdvertisementIn Naranjito, the islands central region, Mr. Biesenbach and Mr. Gregory found Mr. González and Chemi Rosado-Seijo teaching a lace workshop with local children from an elementary school. Mr. Rosado-Seijo is an artist whose practice also combines community engagement and collaboration. Since 2002 he has been active in El Cerro, a rural, working-class neighborhood in the mountains of Naranjito, where he helps residents paint their houses a green shade of their choosing, in a community-building exercise that emphasized its hillside surroundings.Now the foliage here is bare, and he has helped cover the community center with a large blue tarp to save it from the unrelenting, torrential rain. The school was being used as a homeless shelter for survivors of the hurricane; the lace workshop was conducted in its courtyard.AdvertisementAn art world that has survived through modest circumstances, constantly prepared for small emergencies, has left artists better equipped for the big one. In an interview with The New York Times, Mr. Biesenbach and Mr. Gregory said they found many artists eager to help one another and their communities. These are edited excerpts from a conversation, conducted by Ariana McLaughlin, a photo editor on the Culture desk of The Times.How do you explain social practice to someone whos never heard that term before?KLAUS BIESENBACH Artists are engaged with images that surround us daily, and they also make images, but often artistic practice is also a political and social practice, because you change the environment in which we all live. Is social practice more important now because of the hurricane?BIESENBACH In Puerto Rico, social practice was very important for the last 10 years [because] Puerto Rico was undergoing a crisis already. The artists we visited were already active in social practice, in education and helping with youth projects, and with installing water filters. Art was very helpful to reassign responsibilities. Everybody, every single citizen, has creative powers and should use them in the process of making a better society, and artists are privileged. Theyre the most creative and they find the most convincing, and also the most utopian, forms.CHRISTOPHER GREGORY The arts community in a way is uniquely equipped to answer those calls, because large institutions cant move as quickly as individuals who have inroads into these areas.How do you define art? BIESENBACH For me art is changing how people look at the world. Its a disruption. It makes us look at the world differently. What was the catalyst for going to Puerto Rico?BIESENBACH We made a Facebook exchange group. We collected all the addresses, all the contact information. We asked, What do you need in case of a hurricane? We did this before Irma, and everybody was connected. And then Irma didnt really hit so badly but we had the people communicating. Then, we helped with fund-raisers. It was just necessary, after we had been in contact with certain help organizations, to go down on-site and visit artists we had worked with, to see what was needed now. And without using up anybodys resources. I was driving with a friend who had a car, staying with a friend. Chris was staying with family.Advertisement What surprised you the most once you arrived?BIESENBACH The sheer size of the destruction. As you were driving, and youre driving further, you have landslides, and then youre driving through El Yunque [National Forest, in northeastern Puerto Rico] and it looks like a bomb fell. Nearly the whole forest, 28,000 acres, was defoliated, no leaves, and giant trees were upside down. When you are on an island, you cant find an end to the hurricanes impact. It was so destroyed. I was very shocked by this.GREGORY There were places youve seen your entire life that have these layers of memory and are now gone. I think the hardest thing for me was the realization that Puerto Rico is never really going to be the same.BIESENBACH We went to Zilia Sánchezs studio. I had just been there last winter when she was preparing her Venice Biennale art, and I had seen pieces from the 70s and 80s. Now it was just a pile of garbage. We walk in, theres no ceiling. And she was very level headed! There she is, 91. She had high heels and a tank top on and she looked great and energetic. We saw art being destroyed, but not spirits being destroyed. She was amazing. What was your biggest takeaway from the trip?GREGORY Now more than ever, Puerto Rico needs artists taking things like humor, taking aesthetic beauty and using that to shed light on some of the hardships and the atrocities that are happening on the island. Whats happening in the photograph taken outside the school?BIESENBACH Chemi [Rosado-Seijo] and Jorge [González] are teaching a lacing workshop, and its beautiful because not only the kids, but also the parents came to help with this crocheting. Its normally done in this big gymnasium, but that became a homeless shelter.GREGORY  The artists had a relationship with the community before, but the first month after the hurricane, it took a big psychological toll. I think that this is a beautiful moment, witnessing the healing properties of social practice and art. Whats the significance of the painted green homes in this photograph?BIESENBACH Fifteen years ago, Chemi offered to help everyone who has a house in El Cerro paint it in different shades of green. It was really an incredible experience to see this social sculpture, conceived, made, painted, and it survived the hurricane! With the vegetation around it nearly gone, the greens of the community, all the different shades of the houses, stood up so beautifully. And everybodys proud of it, and he knows everybody. He has been welcomed in every household.A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 2018, on Page AR18 of the New York edition with the headline: In Puerto Rico,  Artists Rebuild  And Reach Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KAREN STABINERFEB. 13, 2018
Kyle Glanville should have been thrilled. All 70 of the outdoor seats at Go Get Em Tiger were taken, only three days after he and his partner opened the cafe in the Los Feliz neighborhood of Los Angeles.He was not. Everybody was at a laptop wearing headphones, Mr. Glanville said. He strode inside, unplugged the device that provided free Wi-Fi and tossed it into a bin in his office.He wanted a courtyard where people talked to one another, not a silent office for remote workers. And while anyone with a cellphone hot spot could connect without his help, he had made himself clear. On a recent weekday morning, almost a year and a half later, the courtyard was still full of people, but this time they were talking to one another. Only one was at his laptop.Remote workers have staked out coffee shops for years, but small-business owners say their ranks are rising. In 2016, 43 percent of American employees spent some time working remotely, according to a Gallup survey; the number who telecommute at least half the time has grown by 115 percent since 2005, said a report last year from FlexJobs and Global Workplace Analytics. Add in the self-employed, and the crowd gets even bigger. And while some still embrace the home-and-pajama model, a large contingent hits the corner cafe.AdvertisementStarbucks may not feel the pinch, with its multibillion-dollar revenues and legions of grab-and-go customers, but for owners of smaller businesses, the math is grim.Three hours for five dollars worth of coffee is not a model that works, said David Wynn, co-owner of Triniti, a tiny cafe that opened two months ago east of Mr. Glanvilles place, on Sunset Boulevard.AdvertisementOwners face a choice: Get tough and encourage workers to relocate, or embrace them and hope that a combination of guilt and loyalty will inspire them to spend more or leave sooner.Its hard to know which is the right answer. Theres no social order here to tell us how to behave, said Mr. Glanville, as though he were contemplating a newly formed nation, which in a way he is. He took a no-tolerance stance on Wi-Fi because a single ground rule seemed more hospitable than a litany of restrictions.Rich Nieto thought he was being tough enough when he limited workers to a dedicated laptop room at his 25-seat Sweetleaf cafe in Long Island City, Queens. But when all eight laptop seats were taken one afternoon, a customer simply retired to another room, tore away the wallpaper to expose a purposely covered electrical outlet, and plugged in.You cant win that battle, said Mr. Nieto, who had already learned his lesson the hard way. The first time I saw someone with a laptop I said, Sorry, no laptops,  he said. Right after that, I got a one-star review on Yelp.Jody Williams, who with Rita Sodi owns the West Village restaurant Via Carota and has her own smaller place, Buvette, dislikes talking about policy and prefers to say that laptops are frowned on. A staff member will approach the uninitiated customer whose laptop is open for more than a couple of minutes with a gentle but firm request to finish up what youre doing and close the laptop, please, she said.When she and Ms. Sodi open Pisellino, a new cafe, in April, the no-work attitude will be embedded in the design: a standing bar only 12 inches deep, no Wi-Fi, no outlets, five small cafe tables inside and 20 outside when the weather allows. Little opportunity to set up shop.AdvertisementEven companies committed to accommodating remote workers look for ways to improve the relationship. At Triniti, Mr. Wynn offers free Wi-Fi, but after two hours a customer must have a face-to-face interaction with an employee, he says, to get a new password. He relies on that interaction and the aromas from the kitchen to transform coffee drinkers into lunch customers, and has been gratified as the first wave of workers have started to order midday meals.Bailey Arnold, director of education for Gregorys Coffee, says that many of the Manhattan-based companys 25 outlets are in business districts to tap into a reliable stream of customers. But recently the company installed a brew bar at three branches, to emphasize coffee and conversation — and to speed turnover, and get away from what she calls the old oblivious row of laptop, laptop, laptop.If someone stakes out too much turf — if their belongings sprawl into nearby seating — its time for a polite intervention. We wont move anybodys stuff, Ms. Arnold said, but an employee might start to clean the adjacent table and hope they get the hint.And if that doesnt work, eventually the furniture will send a message. The seating isnt all that comfortable for long sessions, she said.Jason Neroni, the chef and a partner in the Rose Cafe, in the Venice, Calif., neighborhood known as Silicon Beach, said he was happy to run what he called a commissary for the nearby offices of Google, BuzzFeed and Snapchat, and for self-employed people.He sees them as the nascent regulars of tomorrow — and with 300 seats, he can afford to invest 85 to 90 cafe and patio seats in the future, and still maintain a no-laptop policy in the main dining room.He employs subtle means to influence the behavior of working customers. Logging in for two hours of free Wi-Fi requires the users email address, which goes onto the Roses mailing list — and while people can log right back in, the expiration reminds them that it might be time to order another round. Servers circulate to ask if they can get something else for a customer tied to his electronic devices. And Wi-Fi service ends at 5:30 p.m., to signal that the workday has ended and dinner service is about to begin.Mr. Neroni tried extending the Wi-Fi until 7 one night, as an experiment, he said. People looked up and figured we forgot to turn it off. And it was Oh, boy, and a line of people carrying their open laptops into the dining room so they could keep working. He reminded the disappointed throng of the dining-room no-laptop policy and resumed the 5:30 cutoff.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Like most cafes, the Rose doesnt provide electrical outlets; a dwindling battery should be a sign that its time to go.AdvertisementSome remote workers have gotten the message, and try to do their part. Jocelyn Johnson, who founded VideoInk, a digital trade publication about online video, relies on remote work sites including the Rose. She has defined a code of conduct to prove herself a good citizen.Her self-imposed rules include working in one cafe or restaurant no more than three mornings a week, for no more than three hours at a stretch. She always orders a coffee and pastry, and frequently a lunch to go. Then she packs up and heads to another spot on her preferred list.The only casualty of the plan is her social life, which she had hoped might include the Rose as well: She tried a weekend brunch there, only to realize that it felt too much like the office.I couldnt enjoy myself, she said. I kept feeling that I ought to be working.Brian Swichkow, her frequent tablemate, has no such problem. Known to friends and colleagues as the Rose Cafe guy because he frequently shows up in the restaurants Instagram photos, Mr. Swichkow, the founder of ghostinfluence.com, takes his regular seat six or seven mornings a week, from which he advises clients on how to develop digital empathy in their online marketing.He budgets $350 a month to cover coffee, frequent breakfasts and lunch to go if hes headed straight to a meeting. Business lunches or drinks are always at the Rose — and yet he figures his home away from home still costs about $100 less than a shared work space.But theres a big gap between a customer who invests in his remote work space and one who rips the wallpaper to get at an outlet. Cafe owners find it difficult to define a consistent strategy without a proven, profitable relationship model.Mr. Glanville yanked the Wi-Fi at Go Get Em Tiger, but he provides it at two other locations that are not as much of a hub for remote workers. Hell do so again at a smaller fourth cafe opening this spring in Highland Park, in northeastern Los Angeles.He cant imagine that remote workers will find the new place a comfortable home, so he has decided to take a chance and accommodate people who want recreational access.Still, theres no way to know for sure if the working masses will turn up. If they can figure out how to work squished into 15 seats with Prince blaring on the sound system, he said, with a shrug, more power to them.AdvertisementFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Unplug, Add Wi-Fi Or Both?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Critics say the search giant is squelching competition before it begins. Should the government step in?By CHARLES DUHIGGFEB. 20, 2018
Shivaun Moeran and Adam Raff met, married and started a company — thereby sparking a chain of events that might, ultimately, take down this age of internet giants as we know it — because they were both huge nerds. In the late 1980s, Adam was studying programming at the University of Edinburgh, while Shivaun was focused on physics and computer science at Kings College London. They had mutual friends who kept insisting they were perfect for each other. So one weekend, they went on a date and discovered other similarities: They both loved stand-up comedy. Each had a science-minded father. They shared a weakness for puns.In the years that followed, those overlapping enthusiasms led to cohabitation, a raucous wedding and parallel careers at big technology firms. The thing is, though, when youre young and geeky and fall in love with someone else young and geeky, all your nerdy friends want you to set them up on dates as well. So Adam and Shivaun, who took Adams last name after marriage, approached the problem like two good programmers: They designed a dating app.The app was known as MatchMate, and the idea was simple: Rather than just pairing people with similar interests, their software would put together potential mates according to an array of parameters, such as which pub they were currently standing in, and whether they had friends in common, and what movies they liked or candidates they voted for, and dozens of other factors that might be important in finding a life partner (or at least a tonight partner). The magic of MatchMate was that it could allow a user to mix variables and search for pairings within a specific group, a trick that computer scientists call parameterization. It was like asking your best friend to set you up, Shivaun told me. Someone who says, Well, you probably think youd like this guy because hes handsome, but actually youd like this other guy because hes not as good-looking, but hes really funny. Within computer science, this kind of algorithmic alchemy is sometimes known as vertical search, and its notoriously hard to master. Even Google, with its thousands of Ph.D.s, gets spooked by vertical-search problems. Googles built around horizontal search, which means if you type in Whats the population of Myanmar, then Google finds websites that include the words Myanmar and population, and figures out which ones are most likely to answer your question, says Neha Narula, who was a software engineer at Google before joining the M.I.T. Media Lab. You dont really care if Google sends you to Wikipedia or a news article or some other site, as long as its results are accurate and trustworthy. But, Narula says, when you start asking questions with only one correct answer, like, Which site has the cheapest vacuum cleaner? — thats much, much harder.AdvertisementFor search engines like Google, finding that one correct answer becomes particularly difficult when people have numerous parameters they want satisfied: Which vacuum cleaner is cheapest but also energy-efficient and good on thick carpets and wont scare the dog? To balance those competing preferences, you need a great vertical-search engine, which was something Adam and Shivaun had thought a lot about.Soon the Raffs began daydreaming about turning their idea into a moneymaker. They didnt have the funds to compete with huge dating sites like Match.com, so they applied for a couple of patents and began brainstorming. They believed that their vertical-search technology was good — better, in fact, than almost anything they had seen online. Best of all, it was built to work well on almost any kind of data set. With just a bit of tinkering, it could search for cheap airline tickets, or great apartments, or high-paying jobs. It could handle questions with hard-to-compare variables, like whats the cheapest flight between London and Las Vegas if Im trying to choose between business class or leaving after 3 p.m.?As far as they could tell, their search technology performed better on such problems than Google did, which Adam discovered when he tried to buy an iPod online. I spent half an hour searching Google for the lowest price, and it drove me completely mad, he told me. It was impossible for him to figure out which sites were selling iPods and which were selling accessories, like headphones or charging cords. Or Google would show Adam one price, but then the actual price was completely different. Or there was an extra charge for shipping. It seemed to Adam his technology would do a much better job.AdvertisementGoogle executives, had they known of Adams frustrations, probably wouldnt have been surprised. For years, Google had been trying to build a tool for comparing online prices. The idea was you should be able to input any item, and wed show you the best place to buy it, says Brian Larson, a technical lead for what was then named Froogle and today is called Google Shopping. Larsons team was small — just himself and one other programmer at first, and roughly a dozen people at its height — and Larson would regularly test how Froogle compared with other online price-comparison services. Sometimes we were neck and neck; sometimes, not so much, Larson said. We had a hundred million product listings, which was better than competitors. But they were often outperformed by sites like PriceGrabber.com, which had many more employees devoted to price comparisons.Froogles limitations tended to pop up particularly when users included too many search parameters. For a while, Larson had a specific test search that Froogle kept failing, something like white running shoes and cheap and free shipping. Inevitably, the first result would be a Christmas elf wearing running shoes that some guy was selling online. No matter how Googles engineers fiddled with their coding, they couldnt stop the elf from appearing as the top link. Eventually, a manager bought the elf so it wouldnt appear in the search results anymore. We made elf T-shirts, Larson told me. It became our mascot.Adam and Shivauns technology was good enough to tell the difference between an elf wearing running shoes and an actual pair of running shoes. It was good enough, in fact, to figure out which websites charged hidden shipping fees and which offered truly good deals. So the Raffs quit their jobs, hired a few programmers, spent months perfecting their technology and, in early 2006, unveiled Foundem.com, a vertical-search engine for finding cheap online prices, to a small group of friends and associates. Each time someone used Foundem to buy something, the Raffs would receive a small payment from the website making the sale. Adam and Shivaun werent sure their company would succeed — there were already a couple of other big price-comparison search engines, like PriceGrabber, NexTag and, of course, Google itself — but they figured this was how the internet was supposed to work: Two people with a new idea can take on giants and, if their technology is good enough, grow into colossi themselves.The Raffs knew they would have to rely on Google to find customers. For one thing, as evidenced by the name Foundem, they werent marketing geniuses. (Its like we found em for you, you know? Shivaun explained.) But early tests indicated that Foundem usually came up high in Googles search results whenever people submitted queries like compare prices xr-1000 motorcycle helmets. Six months later, they opened Foundem to the world, and initial traffic was encouraging. Search engines liked the site, Shivaun told me. Thats supposed to be the recipe for success. As long as their vertical-search technology was strong, the Raffs figured, Google would guide shoppers to their door.Google has succeeded where Genghis Khan, communism and Esperanto all failed: It dominates the globe. Though estimates vary by region, the company now accounts for an estimated 87 percent of online searches worldwide. It processes trillions of queries each year, which works out to at least 5.5 billion a day, 63,000 a second. So odds are good that sometime in the last week, or last hour, or last 10 minutes, youve used Google to answer a nagging question or to look up a minor fact, and barely paused to consider how near-magical it is that almost any bit of knowledge can be delivered to you faster than you can type the request. If youre old enough to remember the internet before 1998, when Google was founded, youll recall what it was like when searching online involved AltaVista or Lycos and consistently delivered a healthy dose of spam or porn. (Pity the early web enthusiasts who innocently asked Jeeves about amateurs or steel.)In other words, its very likely you love Google, or are at least fond of Google, or hardly think about Google, the same way you hardly think about water systems or traffic lights or any of the other things you rely on every day. Therefore you might have been surprised when headlines began appearing last year suggesting that Google and its fellow tech giants were threatening everything from our economy to democracy itself. Lawmakers have accused Google of creating an automated advertising system so vast and subtle that hardly anyone noticed when Russian saboteurs co-opted it in the last election. Critics say Facebook exploits our addictive impulses and silos us in ideological echo chambers. Amazons reach is blamed for spurring a retail meltdown; Apples economic impact is so profound it can cause market-wide gyrations. These controversies point to the growing anxiety that a small number of technology companies are now such powerful entities that they can destroy entire industries or social norms with just a few lines of computer code. Those four companies, plus Microsoft, make up Americas largest sources of aggregated news, advertising, online shopping, digital entertainment and the tools of business and communication. Theyre also among the worlds most valuable firms, with combined annual revenues of more than half a trillion dollars.In a rare display of bipartisanship, lawmakers from both political parties have started questioning how these tech giants grew so powerful so fast. Regulators in Missouri, Utah, Washington, D.C., and elsewhere have called for greater scrutiny of Google and others, citing antitrust concerns; some critics have suggested that our courts and legislatures need to go after tech firms in the same way the trustbusters broke up oil and railroad monopolies a century ago. But others say that Google and its cohort are guilty only of delighting customers. If these tech leviathans ever fail to satisfy us, their defenders argue, capitalism will punish them the same way it once brought down Yahoo, AOL and Myspace.At the core of this debate is a question that is more than a century old: When does a megacompanys behavior become so brazen that it violates the law? In the early 1900s, just after the Industrial Revolution, the federal government provided an answer by suing one of Americas largest companies, Standard Oil, on the novel theory that big becomes bad when a giant uses its dominance not only to defeat its competitors but also to extinguish the possibility that competition might occur.AdvertisementIn its technological innovation, Standard Oil was the Google of its day. The companys founder, John D. Rockefeller, had become the richest man in America by spending millions of dollars hiring scientists to transform how oil was refined and transported. And those innovations earned the publics admiration. In 1858, before Standard Oil was founded, lighting a home required whale oil, which cost up to $3 a gallon, putting illumination out of reach for all but the wealthiest of households. By 1885, after Standard Oil figured out how to refine kerosene, it cost just 8 cents a gallon to brighten the night. Let the good work go on, Rockefeller wrote to a partner. We must ever remember we are refining oil for the poor man and he must have it cheap and good.Standard Oils technological discoveries gave the company huge advantages over its rivals, and Rockefeller exploited those advantages ruthlessly. He cut secret deals with railroads so that other firms had to pay more for transportation. He forced smaller refineries to choose between selling out to him or facing bankruptcy. Rockefeller and his associates did not build the Standard Oil Co. in the boardrooms of Wall Street, wrote Ida Tarbell, a muckraking journalist of the day. They fought their way to control by rebate and drawback, bribe and blackmail, espionage and price cutting, and perhaps more important, by ruthless, never slothful efficiency of organization.In 1906, President Theodore Roosevelt ordered his Justice Department to sue Standard Oil for antitrust violations. But government lawyers faced a quandary: It wasnt illegal for Standard Oil to be a monopoly. It wasnt even illegal to compete mercilessly. So government prosecutors found a new argument: If a firm is more powerful than everyone else, they said, it cant simply act like everyone else. Instead, it has to live by a special set of rules, so that other companies get a fair shot. The theory was that competition is good, and if a monopoly extinguishes competition, thats bad, says Herbert Hovenkamp, co-author of a seminal treatise on antitrust law. Once you become a monopoly, you have to start acting differently, and if you dont, then what youve been doing all along starts breaking the law.The Supreme Court agreed and split Standard Oil into 34 firms. (Rockefeller received stock in all of them and became even wealthier.) In the decades following the Standard Oil breakup, antitrust enforcement generally abided by a core principle: When a company grows so powerful that it becomes a gatekeeper, and uses that might to undermine competitors, then the government should intervene. And in the last century, as courts have censured other monopolies, academics and jurists have noticed a pattern: Monopolies and technology often seem intertwined. When a company discovers a technological advantage — like the innovations of Rockefellers scientists — it sometimes makes that firm so powerful that it becomes a monopoly almost without trying very hard. Many of the most important antitrust lawsuits in American history — against IBM, Alcoa, Kodak and others — were rooted in claims that one company had made technological discoveries that allowed it to outpace competitors.For decades, there seemed to be a consensus among policymakers and business leaders (though not always among targeted companies) about how the antitrust laws should be enforced. But around the turn of this century, a number of tech companies emerged that caused some people to question whether the antitrust formula made sense anymore. Firms like Google and Facebook have become increasingly useful as they have grown bigger and bigger — a characteristic known as network effects. Whats more, some have argued that the online world is so fast-moving that no antitrust lawsuit can keep pace. Nowadays even the biggest titan can be defeated by a tiny start-up, as long as the newcomer has better ideas or faster tech. Antitrust laws, digital executives said, arent needed anymore.Consider Microsoft. The government spent most of the 1990s suing Microsoft for antitrust violations, a prosecution that many now view as a complete waste of time and money. When Microsofts chief executive, Bill Gates, signed a consent decree to resolve one of its monopoly investigations in 1994, he told a reporter that it was essentially pointless for the companys various divisions: None of the people who run those divisions are going to change what they do or think. Even after a federal judge ordered Microsoft broken into separate companies in 2000, the punishment didnt take. Microsoft fought the ruling and won on appeal. The government then offered a settlement so feeble that nine states begged the court to reject the proposal. It was approved.What eventually humbled Bill Gates and ended Microsofts monopoly wasnt antitrust prosecutions, observers say, but a more nimble start-up named Google, a search engine designed by two Stanford Ph.D. dropouts that outperformed Microsofts own forays into search (first MSN Search and now Bing). Then those two dropouts introduced a series of applications, like Google Docs and Google Sheets, that eventually began to compete with almost every aspect of Microsofts businesses. And Google did all that not by relying on government prosecutors but by being smarter. You dont need antitrust in the digital marketplace, critics argue. When our products dont work or we make mistakes, its easy for users to go elsewhere because our competition is only a click away, Googles co-founder, Larry Page, said in 2012. Translation: The government ought to stop worrying, because no online giant will ever survive any longer than it deserves to.Once Foundem.com was available to everyone, the companys honeymoon lasted precisely two days. During its first 48 hours, the Raffs saw a rush of traffic from users typing product queries into Google and other search engines. But then, suddenly, the traffic stopped. Alarmed, Adam and Shivaun began running diagnostics. They quickly discovered that their site, which until then had been appearing near the top of search results, was now languishing on Google, mired 12 or 15 or 64 or 170 pages down. On other search engines, like MSN Search and Yahoo, Foundem still ranked high. But on Google, Foundem had effectively disappeared. And Google, of course, was where a vast majority of people searched online.AdvertisementThe Raffs wondered if this could be some kind of technical error, so they began checking their coding and sending email to Google executives, begging them to fix whatever was causing Foundem to vanish. Figuring out whom to write, and how to contact them, was a challenge in itself. Although Googles parent company bills itself as a diversified firm with about 80,000 employees, almost 90 percent of the companys revenues derive from advertisements, like the ones that show up in search. As a result, there are few things more important to Googles executives than protecting the firms search dominance, particularly among the most profitable kinds of queries, such as those of users looking to buy things online. In fact, at about the same time the Raffs were starting Foundem.com, Google executives were growing increasingly concerned about the threats that vertical-search engines posed to Googles business.What is the real threat if we dont execute on verticals? one Google executive emailed his colleagues in 2005, according to internal documents later shared with the Federal Trade Commission. Loss of traffic from Google.com because folks search elsewhere for some queries, he wrote, in answer to his own question. If one of our big competitors builds a constellation of high-quality verticals, we are hurt badly, the internal documents continued. Another executive put it more bluntly: Googles core business is monetizing commercial queries. If users go to competitors such as Amazon to do product queries, long-term revenue will suffer.Google executives began holding battle-plan meetings for the vertical war. Shortly after Foundem.com went online, one executive issued an order: Henceforth, Googles own price-comparison results should appear at the top of many search pages, as quickly as possible, even if that meant disregarding the natural results of the companys search algorithm. Long term, I think we need to commit to a more aggressive path, a high-ranking Google employee wrote to colleagues. Eventually, a mandate came from the chief executive: Larry thought product should get more exposure, a senior official wrote.One way to get that exposure was to influence the rules governing how Google displayed search results. In 2006, Google instituted a shift in its search algorithm, known as the Big Daddy update, which penalized websites with large numbers of subpages but few inbound links. A few years later, another shift, known as Panda, penalized sites that copied text from other websites. When adjustments like these occurred, Google explained to users, they were aimed at combating individuals or systems seeking to game our systems in order to appear higher in search results — using low-quality content farms, hidden text and other deceptive practices.Left unsaid was that Google itself generates millions of new subpages without inbound links each day, a fresh page each time someone performs a search. And each of those subpages is filled with text copied from other sites. By programming its search engine to ignore other sites doing the same thing that Google was doing, critics say, the company had made it nearly impossible for competing vertical-search engines, like Foundem, to show up high in Googles results.Shivaun and Adam sent email after email to Google executives, but no one responded with anything useful. So the Raffs started making phone calls. Those didnt help much, either. Adam and Shivaun had worked in technology for decades. They were well known and had connections to important people inside Google and at other big firms. But none of that seemed to matter.As the months went by and Foundems bank accounts dwindled, the Raffs, desperate, began approaching other websites, offering to adapt their technology to power those sites internal search engines. Soon they were providing back-end technology for a popular motorcycle site and a large magazine publisher. Eventually, about 2.5 million people were seeing Foundems search results each month. Foundem was named one of Britains best travel comparison sites by The Times of London and celebrated on a popular British gadget show. But without traffic from Google, the Raffs were barely holding on.Three years passed this way. Some nights, Shivaun would sit at her computer, exhausted, Googling phrase after phrase — How do you lift a Google website penalty? Who at Google reviews mistakes? Google and deindexed and phone number and help — hoping that some magic combination of words might yield a new solution. It just felt so unfair, Shivaun told me. We had great technology. It was winning awards. But we couldnt even get an explanation from Google about why we werent showing up. Eventually, they sought out a public relations firm, in the hope that a newspaper article might get Googles attention. The P.R. firm had an additional suggestion: Why not file an antitrust complaint? To Adam and Shivaun, that seemed like a waste of time. If Microsoft had been able to shrug off the antitrust attacks of the United States government, why would Google care about a complaint filed by some small firm?But they didnt see many other options. So Adam and Shivaun pulled out their laptops and began assembling a long document detailing everything they had experienced. Then they went to Brussels, to the headquarters of the European Commission, the agency charged with regulating competitive behavior, and filed a complaint accusing Google of violating antimonopoly laws.AdvertisementAs the years passed, Shivaun and Adam got into the habit of visiting message boards where people obsessively discussed Googles many peculiarities. They began to notice an interesting pattern among companies complaining about the search giant: Often, the aggrieved parties had, in some way, posed some kind of threat to Googles business. And they seemed to have suffered dire consequences.There was, for instance, Skyhook Wireless, which had invented a new navigation system that competed with Googles location software and had signed major deals with the cellphone manufacturers Samsung and Motorola. Skyhooks accuracy is better than ours, one Google manager speculated in an internal email later revealed in a lawsuit filed by Skyhook against Google. Not long after that note was written, according to the lawsuit, a high-ranking Google official pressured Samsung and Motorola to end their relationships with Skyhook — and implied that if they didnt, Google could make it impossible for them to ship their phones on time. (Google has denied doing anything inappropriate.) Soon, Samsung and Motorola canceled their Skyhook contracts. Skyhook sued Google, and though one suit was dismissed, Google ended up paying $90 million to settle a patent-infringement claim. But by then it was too late. Skyhooks founders, bereft of other partnership options, had been forced to sell their company at a large discount.Then there was Yelp, a website with millions of user-generated reviews of local brewpubs, auto-body shops and other businesses. Yelp grew quickly as local queries — like best nearby steakhouse — became a third of all online searches. For years, Yelp appeared near or at the top of millions of Google searches. Google, hoping to capitalize on that traffic, tried to buy Yelp in 2009, but Yelps founders rejected those advances. Then Google started pulling Yelps content into its own results, which meant many users didnt have to visit Yelps website. Yelp complained — to Google and later to the F.T.C. — but Google said the only alternative was for Yelp to remove its content from Google altogether, according to documents filed with federal regulators. The same thing happened at other fast-growing review sites like TripAdvisor and Citysearch, which also complained to the F.T.C. We still exist, says Luther Lowe, a vice president at Yelp, but Google did everything it could to ensure that wed never present a threat to them. Its bullying, but theyre the 800-pound gorilla.The more Adam and Shivaun looked, the more examples they found. Getty Images had created a popular search engine to help users comb through the firms 170 million photographs and other visual art. Then, in 2013, Google adjusted how it displayed images so that rather than directing people to Gettys website, users could easily see and download Gettys high-definition images from Google itself. Our traffic immediately fell 85 percent, says Yoko Miyashita, Gettys general counsel. We wrote to Google, and said, Hey, this isnt cool. And their response was, Well, if you dont agree to these terms, well just exclude you  — by letting Getty remove itself from the search engine entirely, Miyashita said. Thats not really a choice, because if you arent on Google, you basically dont exist.TradeComet.com, which operated a vertical-search engine for finding business products, initially prospered by buying ads on Google, but as the site grew, Google raised my prices by 10,000 percent, which strangled our business virtually overnight, the companys C.E.O. at the time, Dan Savage, said when he filed an antitrust lawsuit in 2009. KinderStart.com, a vertical-search engine for parents, sued Google after it received a PageRank of zero, making it essentially unfindable. (TradeComet.coms suit was dismissed on a technicality; KinderStart.coms was dismissed for insufficient evidence.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Shivaun and Adam filled notepads with the names of companies that had complained about Googles tactics — eJustice, a vertical-search engine for legal information; NexTag, the fellow price-comparison site; BDZV, a group of German newspapers. They printed out lawsuits and regulatory complaints until their living room was a maze of paper.Eventually the Raffs reached out to the F.T.C., which, they knew, was the American equivalent of the European Commissions antitrust office, and the U.S. regulators invited them to visit. The F.T.C.s staff, it turned out, had been quietly collecting complaints about Google for years. In 2012, those officials wrote a confidential 160-page report that said Google had adopted a strategy of demoting, or refusing to display, links to certain vertical websites in highly commercial categories. That memo, about half of which was accidentally sent to reporters at The Wall Street Journal after they submitted a Freedom of Information Act request, said that Googles conduct has resulted — and will result — in real harm to consumers and to innovation.Google has strengthened its monopolies over search and search advertising through anticompetitive means, which will have lasting negative effects on consumer welfare, F.T.C. officials wrote. They cited instances in which Google seemed purposely to be privileging less useful information, substandard search results and suboptimal links. Although it displays its flight search above any natural search results for flight-booking sites, Google does not provide the most flight options for travelers, the regulators wrote. Whereas a decade earlier someone searching for steakhouses would have seen a long list of websites, now the most noticeable results pointed to Googles own listings, including Google maps, Google local search or advertisers paying Google. Some F.T.C. staff recommended that the Commission issue a complaint against Google for copying material and certain advertising and contract practices, though not search-engine bias.AdvertisementGoogle responded to the reports claims by arguing that the changes it made to the search engine benefited users. Our testing has consistently showed that users want quick answers to their queries, Google said in a statement when contacted about this article. If you are searching for weather, you probably want a forecast, not just links to weather sites. And when it comes to online shopping, the statement read, if someone is searching for products, they likely want information about price and where they can buy it. They probably dont want to be taken to another site where they have to enter their search again. . . . We absolutely do not make changes to our search algorithm to disadvantage competitors. Claims to the contrary, like those made by Foundem, are untrue, Google maintained. We make hundreds of changes to search every year, all with the same goal: Delivering users the best, most relevant search results, the company continued. Each change, large and small, affects millions of sites, some who see their rankings improve, others who drop. And, Google concluded, our ultimate responsibility is to deliver the best results possible to our users, not specific placements for sites within our results.When the F.T.C.s politically appointed leadership considered the staffs recommendations, they declined to sue Google, surprising many inside the agency. While not everything Google did was beneficial, on balance, we did not believe that the evidence supported an F.T.C. challenge, the agencys chairman at the time, Jon Leibowitz, said when he announced the decision in 2013.The F.T.C.s decision, according to agency insiders, was motivated in part by a debate that has also sparked battles within antitrust courts over the last 40 years: Should the law protect consumers or encourage competition? Theyre not always synonymous. It wasnt consumers who were complaining about Standard, says Hovenkamp, the antitrust scholar. It was the other oil companies. Similarly, few users are kvetching about Google; its primarily other tech firms. United States judges have increasingly held that the government must show consumer harm to win in court.Adam and Shivaun didnt have to wait for the official F.T.C. announcement to know that their case was going nowhere. Meeting with officials in Washington, they could tell: These people were not going to prosecute. They had come to the United States at their own expense. They had written memo after memo arguing that Google was treating them unfairly and as a result hurting users. They had done everything they were asked. Standard Oil controlled 64 percent of the market for refined petroleum when the Supreme Court broke it into dozens of pieces. Google and Facebook today control an estimated 60 to 70 percent of the U.S. digital advertising market. And the F.T.C. seemed happy to let them keep doing it. To the Raffs, it felt as if history was repeating itself, as if the pointless, ineffectual Microsoft case was happening all over again. It felt as if nobody cared.If you are younger than 29 — which just happens to be the average age of a Google employee, according to a survey done by PayScale — then odds are good you dont remember much about the Microsoft antitrust battles of the 1990s. So, a quick primer: For almost a decade, starting in 1993, federal and state prosecutors besieged Microsoft in courtrooms across the nation, arguing that the company had acted in ways that were predatory and dishonest to preserve its software monopoly. One Microsoft executive was quoted in court as threatening to cut off the air supply of a competitor. Is Bill Gates the 90s answer to Don Corleone? Time magazine asked. I expected to find a bloody computer monitor in my bed, a witness told investigators.Along the way, Microsoft was accused of widespread bullying, coercion and general obnoxiousness. And Microsoft basically said: Whatever. Theres one guy in charge of licenses, Bill Gates told reporters after he signed a consent decree with the Department of Justice in 1994. Hell read the agreement. Everyone else, the implication was, would ignore it.Even when a judge ruled in 2000 that Microsoft was violating antitrust law, conventional wisdom held that the victory was largely pyrrhic. Microsoft successfully appealed, and prosecutors eventually threw in the towel, agreeing to abandon their attacks and settle if Microsoft agreed to token reforms, such as making its products more compatible with competitors software and giving three independent observers unfettered access to the companys records, employees and source code. Microsofts executives thought that three observers, versus 48,000 employees, sounded like pretty good odds.This was the history the Raffs recalled when they heard the F.T.C. was abandoning its investigation. But then, they also remembered a discussion they had once had with a lawyer named Gary Reback, who told them that everything theyd heard about the Microsoft trials was wrong. Reback is something of a legend in Silicon Valley, both because of his accomplishments as an antitrust provocateur and because of his anxious — some might say paranoid — worldview. Reback has been known to call other lawyers late at night and leave long, obsessively detailed voice mail messages about legal arguments and economic theories. He was featured on a 1997 cover of Wired magazine with the headline This Lawyer Is Bill Gatess Worst Nightmare, a boast that wasnt far-off: Working on behalf of clients like Netscape and Sun Microsystems, Reback had browbeaten the Department of Justice into suing Microsoft for antitrust.AdvertisementBy the time Adam and Shivaun started visiting the F.T.C., Reback had exchanged his antipathy of Microsoft for a disdain of Google and had accompanied them on their visits with regulators. Theres a loose coalition of economists and legal theorists who call themselves the New Brandeis Movement (critics call them antitrust hipsters), who believe that todays tech giants pose threats as significant as Standard Oil a century ago. All of the money spent online is going to just a few companies now, says Reback (who disdains the New Brandeis label). They dont need dynamite or Pinkertons to club their competitors anymore. They just need algorithms and data.Reback had told Adam and Shivaun that it was important for them to keep up their fight, no matter the setbacks, and as evidence he pointed to the Microsoft trial. Anyone who said that the 1990s prosecution of Microsoft didnt accomplish anything — that it was companies like Google, rather than government lawyers, that humbled Microsoft — didnt know what they were talking about, Reback said. In fact, he argued, the opposite was true: The antitrust attacks on Microsoft made all the difference. Condemning Microsoft as a monopoly is why Google exists today, he said.Surprisingly, some people who worked at Microsoft in the 1990s and early 2000s agree with him. In the days when federal prosecutors were attacking Microsoft day and night, the company might have publicly brushed off the salvos, insiders say. But within the workplace, the attitude was totally different. As the government sued, Microsoft executives became so anxious and gun-shy that they essentially undermined their own monopoly out of terror they might be pilloried again. It wasnt the consent decrees or court decisions that made the difference, according to multiple current and former Microsoft employees. It was the constant scrutiny and being in the newspaper all the time, said Gene Burrus, a former Microsoft lawyer. People started second-guessing themselves. No one wanted to test the regulators anymore.In public, Bill Gates was declaring victory, but inside Microsoft, executives were demanding that lawyers and other compliance officials — the kinds of people who, previously, were routinely ignored — be invited to every meeting. Software engineers began casually dropping by attorneys desks and describing new software features, and then asking, in desperate whispers, if anything theyd mentioned might trigger a subpoena. One Microsoft senior executive moved an extra chair into his office so a compliance official could sit alongside him during product reviews. Every time a programmer detailed a new idea, the executive turned to the official, who would point his thumb up or down like a capricious Roman emperor.In the early 2000s, Microsofts top executives told some divisions that their plans would be proactively shared with competitors — literally describing what the company intended to create before software was even built — to make sure it wouldnt offend anyone who was likely to sue. Microsofts engineers were outraged. But they went along with it.And most important, as Microsoft lived under government scrutiny, employees abandoned what had been nascent internal discussions about crushing a young, emerging competitor — Google. There had been informal conjectures about reprogramming Microsofts web browser, the popular Internet Explorer, so that anytime people typed in Google, they would be redirected to MSN Search, according to company insiders. Or, perhaps a warning message might pop up: Did you know Google uses your data in ways you cant control?Microsoft was so powerful, and Google so new, that the young search engine could have been killed off, some insiders at both companies believe. But there was a new culture of compliance, and we didnt want to get in trouble again, so nothing happened, Burrus said. The myth that Google humbled Microsoft on its own is wrong. The governments antitrust lawsuit is one reason that Google was eventually able to break Microsofts monopoly.If Microsoft hadnt been sued, all of technology would be different today, Reback told me. Weve known since Standard Oil that advances in technology make it easier for monopolies to emerge. But whats less recognized is the importance of antitrust in making sure those new technologies spread to everyone else. In 1969 the Justice Department started a lawsuit against IBM for antitrust violations that lasted 13 years. The government eventually surrendered, but in an earlier attempt to mollify prosecutors, IBM eliminated its practice of bundling hardware and software, a shift that essentially created the software industry. Suddenly, new start-ups could get a foothold simply by writing programs rather than building machines. Microsoft was founded a few years later and soon outpaced IBM.AdvertisementOr consider AT&T, which was sued by the government in 1974, fought in court for eight years and then slyly agreed to divest itself of some businesses if it could keep its most valuable assets. Critics complained AT&T was getting the deal of a lifetime. But then start-ups like Sprint and MCI made millions building on technologies AT&T championed, and AT&T found itself struggling to compete. Its completely wrong to say that antitrust doesnt matter, Reback argues. The internet only exists because we broke up AT&T. The software industry exists because Johnson sued IBM.It was critical that the Raffs continue fighting, Reback told them. Social embarrassment and sustained attacks have the power to succeed when courtrooms or political agencies fail. After their F.T.C. disappointment, the Raffs flew back to England to consider their options. And then one night they were at home watching television when the phone rang. Someone they had met in Brussels was calling to share some remarkable news. The European Commission had issued a decision on the complaint they filed six years before.What changed everything was a middle-aged Danish politician named Margrethe Vestager, who had recently been named the European Unions commissioner for competition. Vestager was an unusual choice for the post. She wasnt a populist crusader or a pro-business acolyte; she was, instead, a moderate whose claim to fame, at that point, was having served as an inspiration for the television show Borgen, a fictional series about a Danish politician. But Vestager was awarded the commissioners post in 2014 after arguing that European marketplaces needed to do a better job of giving everyone an equal chance to succeed. Since assuming her office, Vestager has become, unexpectedly, the most prominent antitrust official in the world, invited to speak at conferences and mobbed by autograph seekers.By the time Vestager took office, Google had already transitioned its price-comparison service to its present incarnation, which is effectively an advertising system that prominently features links only from companies that pay for the promotion. (Users are notified by a small logo that says sponsored.) After reviewing the complaints submitted by the Raffs and others, Vestager announced she intended to formally charge Google with antitrust violations. (She has also embarked on investigations into the European tax practices of Starbucks, Amazon and Apple, as well as anticompetitive tactics at Qualcomm, Facebook and Gazprom.)Over the next two years, Vestagers staff reviewed data from 1.7 billion Google queries. They scrutinized how people fared when they conducted searches on topics in which Google had a vested interest, versus those where the company had nothing to gain. Then, in June of last year, the commission issued its final verdict: What Google has done is illegal under E.U. antitrust rules, Vestager said in a statement released at the time. It denied other companies the chance to compete on the merits and to innovate. And most important, it denied European consumers a genuine choice of services and the full benefits of innovation. Google was ordered to stop giving its own comparison-shopping service an illegal advantage and was fined an eye-popping $2.7 billion, the largest such penalty in the European Commissions history and more than twice as large as any such fine ever levied by the United States.The verdict rocked Silicon Valley. Some think Europes assertiveness makes it more likely American regulators will act as well. And theres evidence thats already starting. Donald Trump appealed to voters, in part, by attacking the tech monopolies. In a case of truly odd bedfellows, that puts him in alignment with Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, who have long called for greater scrutiny of technology companies. Last year, a group of Democratic lawmakers in Congress, led by Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, sponsored legislation to boost antitrust enforcement by forcing companies to assume the burden of showing that a merger wont hurt the public.Meanwhile, a bipartisan assortment of state attorneys general have urged the F.T.C. to reopen its investigation of Google. Most major antitrust battles, including the federal suits against Microsoft and Standard Oil, have begun as state actions. A Missouri investigation is particularly notable because the states Republican attorney general, Josh Hawley, who is running for the United States Senate, has subpoenaed information to see if Google has manipulated searches to disadvantage potential competitors. The Obama-era F.T.C. did not take any enforcement action against Google, did not press this forward and has essentially given them a free pass, Hawley told reporters after revealing his inquiry in November. I will not let Missouri consumers and businesses be exploited by industry giants.As attacks against Google have escalated, the company has tried to limit the damage. After Yelp complained to the F.T.C. about Googles stealing its content, Google promised to make it easier for websites to opt out of automatic copying, a pledge it reaffirmed a few months ago. And earlier this month, in exchange for Getty Images withdrawing its complaint to the European Commission, Google signed a licensing agreement with Getty promising to more clearly display images copyright information. Other titans like Facebook are similarly trying to get ahead of criticisms, voluntarily pledging greater transparency and promising to work more cooperatively with regulators.AdvertisementThe implication is clear enough: Google and the other tech titans understand that the landscape is shifting. They realize that their halos have become tarnished, that the arguments they once invoked as a digital exception to American economic history — that the internet economy is uniquely self-correcting, because competition is only a click away — no longer hold as much weight. When you get as big as Google, you become so powerful that the market bends around you, Vestager told me. The notion that antitrust law isnt needed anymore, that we must choose between helping consumers or spurring competition, no longer seems sufficient reason to exempt the tech giants from century-old legal codes. If anything, Vestagers verdict and state investigations indicate that companies like Google may have more in common with the monopolists of old than most people thought. Silicon Valleys bigwigs ought to be scared.If Europe can prosecute Google, then we can as well, says William Kovacic, a law professor and former Republican-appointed chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. Its just a question of willingness now.If the internets potentates are frightened, however, theyre doing a good job of hiding it. Google has appealed the European Commissions decision and has vigorously defended itself online. The companys arguments are the same ones that it was putting forth on company blogs over the course of the investigation. We disagree with the European Commissions argument that our improved Google Shopping results are harming competition, Googles top lawyer wrote in one post. The commission drew such a narrow definition around online shopping services that it even excluded services like Amazon, undermining the contention that Google is dominant. Google delivered more than 20 billion free clicks to aggregators over the last decade, he wrote in another post. Forcing it to direct more clicks to price-comparison aggregators would just subsidize sites that have become less useful for consumers. Googles data indicates that users appreciate how the search engine has shifted over the years. Thats not favoring  Googles interests, the company said. Thats giving customers and advertisers what they find most useful.Some legal theorists think that Google might have a point. To what extent are consumers, rather than competitors, being harmed by Google? says Hovenkamp, the antitrust scholar. If the answer is not much, then Im suspicious of an antitrust remedy. Others say the risks are too high. There are very real costs associated with suing a company like Google, says Geoffrey Manne, executive director of the International Center for Law & Economics, a nonpartisan research center. Youre potentially impairing a firm that provides vital services to millions of people, and potentially benefiting competitors who dont deserve that support.Those are fair arguments. But they are also, in some ways, beside the point. Antitrust has never been just about costs and benefits or fairness. Its never been about whether we love the monopolist. People loved Standard Oil a century ago, and Microsoft in the 1990s, just as they love Google today.Rather, antitrust has always been about progress. Antitrust prosecutions are part of how technology grows. Antitrust laws ultimately arent about justice, as if success were something to be condemned; instead, they are a tool that society uses to help start-ups build on a monopolists breakthroughs without, in the process, being crushed by the monopolist. And then, if those start-ups prosper and make discoveries of their own, they eventually become monopolies themselves, and the cycle starts anew. If Microsoft had crushed Google two decades ago, no one would have noticed. Today we would happily be using Bing, unaware that a better alternative once existed. Instead, were lucky a quixotic antitrust lawsuit helped to stop that from happening. Were lucky that antitrust lawyers unintentionally guaranteed that Google would thrive.Put differently, if you love technology — if you always buy the latest gadgets and think scientific advances are powerful forces for good — then perhaps you ought to cheer on the antitrust prosecutors. Because there is no better method for keeping the marketplace constructive and creative than a legal system that intervenes whenever a company, no matter how beloved, grows so large as to blot out the sun. If you love Google, you should hope the government sues it for antitrust offenses — and you should hope it happens soon, because who knows what wondrous new creations are waiting patiently in the wings.For the Raffs, however, its probably too late. By the time Vestager announced her verdict and record-setting fine last year, it had been 12 years since Adam and Shivaun started Foundem.com. During that time, their lives slowly but inexorably became devoted to battling Google. They had spent thousands of hours corresponding with regulatory agencies across the globe. They had filed a civil suit against Google in British court, a case that is ongoing. They basically shut down Foundem, creating more time for them to give advice to other companies and regulators fighting Google. This consulting work, some of which was funded by Googles competitors, has helped to keep the Raffs afloat. And if the Raffs win their lawsuit against Google, it could be worth millions. But its a different business model than we expected, Adam told me. Its also deeply frustrating, because we became technologists in order to build new technologies. We never intended to be professional plaintiffs or antitrust crusaders.One of the most difficult things for the Raffs over the past decade has been figuring out how to explain this journey to themselves and others. Even friends and family didnt fully understand what was going on. It feels really good to be validated like this, to be told we were right, Shivaun told me, referring to Vestagers verdict. But that doesnt turn back the clock and give us another chance. Even if we win in Brussels, or win our lawsuit, in some ways, we were still defeated. We were still beaten by Google.Charles Duhigg is the author of Smarter Faster Better and The Power of Habit. He last wrote for the magazine on the economic lessons of the fidget spinner.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page MM35 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: The Case Against Google.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
JAN. 25, 2018
Updated, 11:30 a.m.Good morning on this bright, cold Thursday.Shes been called a Trump-whisperer, Trumps favorite foe and "the best reporter in the room.Maggie Haberman, The New York Timess White House correspondent, consistently breaks front-page news with deeply sourced articles about the Trump White House.We recently spoke to Ms. Haberman as part of an interview series in which successful New Yorkers offer advice to newcomers to their industries. She got her start as a clerk at The New York Post and became a reporter there. She also worked at The Daily News and Politico before joining The Times — where her father, Clyde Haberman, has written for more than 40 years — in 2015. She splits her time between Washington and New York City, and we reached Ms. Haberman, 44, at The Timess Washington bureau. Her responses have been lightly edited and condensed.How does someone get started in journalism today?Its not what it was when I started, which was you worked at a local paper — in my case, the tabloids in New York. Its still a good idea to clerk somewhere, either a print newsroom or TV network. But youre going to be doing a lot of grunt work for not a lot of pay early on. It was always a difficult field to get into. Its harder now.AdvertisementWhats your best advice for a young journalist?Basically, outwork everybody: Start out earlier and end your day later. Go to every stakeout that you can on a story. Always make the additional phone call. When a rival beats you on a story, try to figure out how they got it and go from there. Meet with whoever asks to meet with you, although were in a bit of a gotcha environment now, so you have to be more careful.AdvertisementHow do you avoid burnout?I dont know. Im very tired (laughs). But were all very tired. I think that the demands of reporters now are very different. The only way to avoid burnout is to take cues from your body and your brain. If youre making mistakes in your copy, take a few extra minutes and look it over a few extra times. Double-check yourself. That doesnt really deal with the feeling of I cant keep doing this, but if you need to take a break, take a break.Whats something that newcomers to the industry might not understand about your job?Theres a difference between letting your sources take advantage of you and having good sources.What are the most important qualities in a journalist today?Not being afraid. A lot of times people are afraid of writing something because someone will get mad or theyll lose access. That can never be a concern. Ever. That was true 50 years ago, and even more so now because the culture of bullying reporters has become more intense.Heres what else is happening:The sun is out, but zip up your jacket: Todays high is only 34.• Harendra Singh, a restaurateur and campaign donor to Mayor Bill de Blasio, secretly pleaded guilty in federal court to trying to bribe the mayor to win favorable lease terms. [New York Times]• A new bureau of the Bronx district attorneys office, located inside the Rikers Island jail complex, has changed the way prosecutors investigate crimes by inmates and visitors. [New York Times]• A federal judge acquitted Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey and his co-defendant of seven bribery and mail fraud charges, leaving them to face 11 charges at retrial. [New York Times]• The owner of the $65 million animal transit facility at Kennedy International Airport known as Ark claims he is incurring massive operational losses and has sued the Port Authority. [New York Times]• Mayor Bill de Blasio won the latest battle in his feud against Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo when the Metropolitan Transportation Authority put off a vote on the governors plan to add amenities to 33 subway stations. [New York Times]Advertisement• After the F.B.I. raided the home of Joseph Percoco, the first call he made was to his ally and close friend: the governor. [New York Times]• New York City expanded a taxi dispatch program to allow people in wheelchairs in boroughs outside of Manhattan to request a wheelchair-accessible cab. [New York Times]• A jury in Queens convicted a detective of lying under oath about the circumstances of a drug arrest, raising concerns about the prevalence of false testimony in court cases. [New York Times]• Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that he no longer planned to attend the mayors conference in Washington, D.C., which would have been his first gathering with Donald J. Trump since he assumed the presidency. [Crains New York]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A New York police officer is facing accusations in federal court of firing his service revolver in an attempt to rob another man. [New York Daily News]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Leather Jacket on the Bus.• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• An ice-skating exercise class (not for beginners) at the Rink in Bryant Park in Midtown. 8 a.m. [Free]• Learn how to make a book at a workshop at the Greenbelt Nature Center on Staten Island. 4 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• Listen to historical recordings of Leonard Bernsteins music, followed by a discussion about American music, at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts near Lincoln Center. 6 p.m. [Free]• The author Lorraine Passero presents her hybrid history and coloring book, P.S.1: A School for the Centuries, about the schoolhouse that became MoMA PS1, at the Greater Astoria Historical Society in Long Island City, Queens. 7 p.m. [Free]• Vaudeville performances by women, part of Ladyweirdo, at the Cobra Club in Bushwick, Brooklyn. 9 p.m. [$10]• Knicks at Nuggets, 9 p.m. (MSG). Islanders at Knights, 10 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers at Sharks, 10:30 p.m. (MSG2).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Theres been a lot of talk in these parts lately about marijuana.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced last week that New York would study whether its possible to legalize recreational marijuana in the state. In New Jersey, Gov. Philip D. Murphy, who campaigned on full legalization of marijuana, signed an executive order on Tuesday aimed at easing access to medical marijuana. And in Vermont, the states Republican governor, Phil Scott, signed a bill on Monday with mixed emotions that legalized recreational marijuana.Even so, states face the potential challenge of a federal crackdown on legalization by the Trump administration.But wed like to know what you think: Do you support the legalization of recreational marijuana in New York? Why or why not?AdvertisementLet us know in the comments or send an email at nytoday@nytimes.com. Please include your full name, age and the neighborhood or city in which you live. We may include your response in an upcoming New York Today column.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.A version of this briefing appears in print on January 30, 2018, on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: Maggie Haberman on Reporting (And Advice for Young Journalists).  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DUSHKO PETROVICHFEB. 12, 2018
THE OFFICIAL PRESIDENTIAL portrait began with George Washington, who was painted in 1796 by Gilbert Stuart, among the pre-eminent American artists of his time. This tradition, of a painter depicting a president, usually soon after the end of his final term, continued after the advent of photography mostly as a matter of ceremony. For hundreds of years, the presidential portrait was a ho-hum affair, failing to generate headlines or even a worthy anecdote, with the possible exception of Theodore Roosevelt, who was so displeased by Théobald Chartrans 1902 portrait — he thought it made him look too coy — that he first hid it in a less-trafficked corner of the White House before finally burning it.Rarely do these commissions make any kind of larger statement about American art, but last fall, when Barack Obama selected Kehinde Wiley — a figurative painter who deploys the techniques, poses and patterns of the grand tradition of Baroque European paintings to portray contemporary black and brown men he finds on the street — to paint his official portrait for the Smithsonian, it at least reflected the Obamas well-developed connections to the world of culture. The Obamas are connoisseurs — they were the first presidential family to display work by African-American painters like Glenn Ligon and Alma Thomas — and yet their choice stood out, because Wiley is an artist whose stature in the art world comes close to matching Obamas in politics. When he first started showing his work in the early 2000s, Wileys reversals of classical figuration were an outlier at a time when most painters dealt in abstraction. His ascent was swift; he had not one but two shows at the Brooklyn Museum, in 2004 and in 2015. More recently, his works were featured on the hip-hop television series Empire, a show that also has featured portraits by artists like Kerry James Marshall, Mickalene Thomas and Barkley Hendricks. But what might be most important about Wileys selection was that it seemed to signal contemporary portraitures new relevance, the reconsideration of a mode that had been thought out of fashion, if not downright taboo, for decades. Long confined to historical museums and musty mansions, it seemed like portraiture had suddenly been rushed out of storage.For centuries, of course, portrait painting was art. But by the second half of the 20th century, it had almost disappeared. By this time, critics routinely announced the death of painting with every new technological and aesthetic innovation. First there was the proliferation of photography, then the ready-made. Then there was the internet, and social media, whose rise seemed to render the medium of painting — not to mention portraiture — completely irrelevant: Why paint someones picture in the age of the selfie? Most painters responded by getting weirder, more abstract, more experimental; representational figurative art was anachronistic, inert, crusty — a form of vanity exclusive to the rich.And yet portraiture — in the classic, realist sense — has become increasingly essential (and visible) in the last few years. You saw it at the Baltimore Museum of Arts fall 2017 solo show by Njideka Akunyili Crosby, who paints intimate scenes of herself and her husband lounging around their house; at a September 2017 solo show at the Casey Kaplan gallery in New York by Jordan Casteel, whose humanizing portraits often depict black men in everyday situations (scrolling through a phone, walking a dog, sitting on the sofa); at the extremely popular Martin Wong show at the Bronx Museum in 2015, where the artist walked a line between playful and gritty in his social realist paintings; at a show organized by the critic Hilton Als at David Zwirner in New York last February, where portraits by Alice Neel, who died in 1984, looked as urgent and as vital as ever, the lonely eyes of her subjects holding a kind of mirror up to life, pouring in energy from both sides — the sitters and the artists, as Als wrote in his essay for the exhibition.AdvertisementSo why is portraiture returning now? For one, there is an institutional urgency to speak to a more diverse audience with painting that depicts the black community, the Asian-American experience, the Latino face, to attract the various people who had been excluded from the museum by remaking the history of figurative painting, this time with color. Not that the trend toward realist portraits is exclusive to artists of color. It is evident in the rococo renderings of Sam McKinniss, who paints pop culture figures — Prince, Lorde, Flipper — like hallowed aristocrats. It was clear in a series of self-portraits by Justin Vivian Bond — who is best known for experimental cabaret performances — that were displayed at the New Museum last fall, and seemed to casually but definitively announce Bonds identity as a trans artist.And there is another reason for figurative paintings resurgence as well: We live in a time in which reality is almost daily warped in ways that were unimaginable even 18 months ago. We have swiftly entered an era where the very notion of truth, or facts, is considered fungible. As we reassess the various power structures that landed us here, it is stabilizing and reassuring to look at the work of an artist who is clearly in control of her craft, who is able to depict a reality that is material and grounded in recognition — of seeing, in the Facebook age, a painting that looks like who it is meant to.
CreditPrince (Under the Cherry Moon), 2016, oil and acrylic on canvas. Courtesy of the artist and Team Gallery, New York        THE CURRENT GENERATION of figurative paintings owes a debt to Kerry James Marshall, whose 2016 multicity retrospective cemented the artists often-stated goal, one that is as straightforward as it is enormous: to put blackness into art history. The painters brilliantly simple gambit, one that has allowed for decades of elaboration, was to literalize that blackness. Starting in 1980 with a mischievous little egg-tempera — A Portrait of the Artist as a Shadow of His Former Self, which features a grin missing a crucial tooth — Marshall has painted his African-American subjects mostly in unmixed black paint. Ever since, these figures have been seen — boldly and yet barely — in a variety of settings: the artists studio, the hairdressers, parks, bedrooms, outer space. Their blackness makes each inclusion subtly register as an exclusion.AdvertisementThis idea is expanded upon in the work of Amy Sherald, who was Michelle Obamas choice to paint her official portrait. Sherald uses grisaille — a method of painting in gray monochrome — for her subjects skin. Because her gradations slyly allude to the mixed and often unacknowledged backgrounds of African-Americans, Sheralds paintings make an important statement about our racial history. One 2016 image, Listen, You a Wonder. You a City of a Woman. You Got a Geography of Your Own, features a woman wearing a skirt dotted with black flowers. As if to underline the point, she is suspending a black purse in front of her belly.Artists like Marshall and Sherald suggest that in its exclusion of people of color, the issue of representation in painting is really a matter of misrepresentation. The best portrait painters working today introduce something new into art not through stylistic innovations, but by whom they choose as subjects. Aliza Nisenbaum, who was among the most prominent artists in last years Whitney Biennial, looks at undocumented immigrants from Latin America in her work. The artist, who hails from Mexico City, shifted her painting practice from abstract to portraiture around 2010, while working with Cuban artist Tania Brugueras Immigrant Movement International, an art project in Queens which provides social services to the neighborhoods large immigrant community. Nisenbaum realized that the portrait process — long, slow, intimate — gave her a way to get to know this community. Additionally, she recognized that painting these peoples pictures would be one way to address their erasure in other areas of life. Nisenbaum has since expanded the project to include portrait-making workshops for the immigrants themselves. As if to complete the circle, the 2017 work Wise Elders Portraiture Class at Centro Tyrone Guzman. En Familia hay Fuerza with mural on the history of immigrant farm labor to the United States, shows the students holding the portraits they themselves learned to draw.Whats most surprising about the recent return of classical portraiture is realizing how utterly absent it was from the art world for so many years, to such an extent that Andy Warhol — one of the people ostensibly responsible for killing the form — helped found the New York Academy of Art in 1982 in order to salvage the kind of technical fine arts training (most notably figure drawing) that seemed at the time in danger of becoming extinct. The Neo-Expressionism of the 1980s — led by painters like Julian Schnabel and David Salle — helped popularize abstraction by making it into a desirable commodity, but it also rendered the realism of a painter like Alice Neel passé. But painting, perhaps because it is so old, seems unusually inclined to rebirth, to responding to its time in surprising ways. As the commercialism of the art world expanded in the 2010s, painting became a subset of interior decorating, something that was easy to mass produce and inoffensive to live with: paintings marked by bold colors and forms, sometimes literally depicting flowers (the work of Nate Lowman) or sunsets (Alex Israel). In 2014, at the peak of this stylistic moment, New Yorks Museum of Modern Art hung its first survey composed exclusively of contemporary painting since 1958, The Forever Now, a show that responded to the current age of distraction, in which contemporaneity was constantly being replaced by something newer. Only the works of Amy Sillman and Nicole Eisenman, who both have portrait-painting practices, hinted at the fact that in our next, emphatically historical moment, something old would be doing the replacing.But an ever-widening chasm exists between 2014 and today. If the news of the world feels every day more like a pulpy political thriller with an unhinged plotline, painters have responded by grounding their work in observable, human reality. Most of this work isnt overtly political on its surface — there is Henry Taylors monumental 2012 portrait of a woman grilling chicken on a barbecue, or Celeste Dupuy-Spencers 2016 painting of a man making a playlist on his laptop, a cigarette-filled ashtray in front of him. But they also suggest that, in a time of chaos, there could be nothing more necessary — more defiant — than simply showing life as its being lived.A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page M2167 of T Magazine with the headline: It Looks  Like  You.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Off the Menu By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 6, 2018
ANNICKA RESTAURANT AND BAR A significant and unusual feature of this airy yet intimate new spot is that all the beers, wines, ciders and spirits served are produced in New York State, often using ingredients grown in the state. Thats because the owner, Ed Raven, who also owns Greenpoint Beer & Ale nearby, is running the restaurant under a farm brewery license from the state. It permits him to serve beer by the glass without a separate license and, as a brewery owner, to open an off-premises restaurant or retail establishment. Mr. Raven has also collaborated with North Brooklyn Farms in Williamsburg for many of the ingredients used by the three chefs, each of whom has a specialty. Christian Perkins, who worked at Marlow & Daughters, is the butcher. Emma Jane Gonzalez, a vegan, and the omnivorous Kenneth Monroe come from North Brooklyn Farms. Their menu features seafood, steaks, sausages and vegetable specialties like charred sweet potatoes with kale and tahini, celery root with apples and crispy nori, and a green chile stew. Seats are at marble tables and a long, circular bar: 544 Manhattan Avenue (Driggs Avenue), Greenpoint, Brooklyn, 718-599-1556, annickanyc.com.SCARPETTA John Meadow, whose restaurant company LDV Hospitality owns Scarpetta, orchestrated a very quick turnaround. The original location, on West 14th Street for 10 years, closed three weeks ago, and hes set to reopen the restaurant in the just-renovated James New York-NoMad. New features in this location include a 50-seat bar and cafe for food and drinks all day and evening, and a private dining room. The main dining room, for dinner only, is handsomely done in pale wood with dark contrasts by Thomas Juul-Hansen. The chef, Jorge Espinoza, who was on board when the original opened, is offering an Italian menu with many of the pastas that were popular from the beginning, along with a new emphasis on vegetables. (Opens Wednesday): 88 Madison Avenue (29th Street), 212-691-0555, scarpettarestaurants.com.GENERAL DEBS Sichuan sizzle comes to Bushwick, Brooklyn, in the hands of Kevin Adey, the chef and owner of the nearby farm-to-table restaurant Faro. The place is named for his wife, Debbie Adey, the general manager and a partner, who takes care of the wine, beer and other drinks. It sounds as if you dont want to mess with her. (Daniel Blumberg is another owner.) In an intimate red and black space that permits a glimpse into the kitchen, Mr. Adey is dishing up favorites like smashed cucumbers, dan-dan noodles, twice-cooked pork and mapo tofu with homemade tofu, as well as more esoteric bang bang rabbit and noodles in soup with red-cooked cow head. (Thursday): 24 Irving Avenue (Jefferson Street), Bushwick, Brooklyn, 718-417-3300.MR. WHITE Jeffrey White, who was on the finance side of the hospitality industry, is opening this taste of New Orleans with Kelly Rheel, who worked with him on several bars. Elegant décor with crystal chandeliers, gold and black accents, a fireplace and velvet curtains are meant to evoke a Southern mansion. The chef and partner, Andrew Dunleavy, is serving chargrilled oysters, collard green spring rolls, smoked duck, shrimp and grits and brûlée bananas. Theres beer and French wine for now; that Sazerac will have to wait until the full liquor license comes through. (Monday): 123 St. Marks Place (Avenue A), 212-510-7229, mrwhitecooks.com.AdvertisementPORTERHOUSE BREW CO. With Eddie Travers and Dervila Bowler, the owners of historic Fraunces Tavern in the financial district, and Jason Francisco, another partner, this brewery based in Dublin, Ireland, has opened its first stand-alone Irish pub in the United States. The company has six places in England and Ireland. The New York branch will not include a brewery. Its a spacious affair, with 190 seats. The restaurant is starting with a preliminary menu of Irish bar foods, like oysters, and a short rib and stout pie, and will introduce a more complete menu this month. The space is shared by a fancy liquor bar, the Lovelace, named for a bar that once occupied the space; it specializes in gin, notably Dingle Gin, distilled by Porterhouse Brew: 66 Pearl Street (Water Street), 212-425-7171, porterhousebrewconyc.com.AdvertisementNODA Once upon a time just about every neighborhood had a bodega. Now it seems that a tiny, high-end sushi bar is the new local staple. This one is distinguished by having its eight seats at a half-moon counter staffed by Shigeyuki Tsunoda, whose $285 omakase is wrought with seafood flown in from Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo. The owners, Justin Hauser and David Hess, have installed a Japanese whiskey and sake lounge with servers clad by Comme des Garçons in the front of the space: 6 West 28th Street, 917-873-9708, noda.nyc. LA CENTRALE This is among the first of a flurry of food halls set to open in Miami this year. The Italian theme sprawls over 40,000 square feet on three floors, where the emphasis is on eating, not shopping, though there are some retail components among the 14 different areas laid out in an open plan. Restaurants are dedicated to various Italian regions and categories of food, including seafood and meat. Except for a chocolatier and gelateria, run by an outside vendor, theyre all managed in-house. The managing partners are Jacopo Giustiniani, who owns the Felice wine bars in New York, and Matthias Kiehm, whose résumé includes the Harrods food hall in London. The chef is Vincenzo Scarmiglia, who worked for many years at Italian restaurants in Las Vegas. Customers can request recipes served in the restaurants and come away with the necessary ingredients. (Friday): 701 South Miami Avenue, Miami, 305-720-2401 lacentralemiami.com.SWEET CHICKA What was Sweet Chick on the Lower East Side has temporarily become a spot for tacos holding fillings like pork belly and blackened catfish. The shift occurred because the restaurants gas was suddenly turned off pending the installation of a new meter: 178 Ludlow Street (Houston Street), 646-657-0233, sweetchick.com.OPHELIA A spacious all-weather enclosed rooftop lounge has been added to the Beekman Tower. Merchants Hospitality and Public Agenda have collaborated on the food and drinks for the 26th-floor aerie, which also has an outdoor terrace. (Monday): 3 Mitchell Place (49th Street and First Avenue), 212-980-4796, opheliany.com.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.MARKET LINE AND ESSEX STREET MARKET This vast shopping hub for food, fashion, art and music is to be completed on the Lower East Side by the end of 2020. This year, it will open its first phase at Delancey and Essex Streets. There will be dozens of new food sellers in the market, including Saxelby Cheesemongers and Formaggio Kitchen, from the historic Essex Street Market, which is being relocated from across the street because its original building is coming down. The developers have just confirmed a vibrant mix for the starting lineup: Tortilleria Nixtamal, Veselka for Ukrainian comfort food, Nom Wah dim sum, Schaller & Weber for German goods, Kuro-Obi from Ippudo, Cafe Grumpy, Pilot Kombucha, Ends Meat for charcuterie and Essex Pearl for seafood. Another dozen or so will be announced soon. The market will stretch over three city blocks and eventually comprise 150,000 square feet of space — most of it on the cellar level, with about two-thirds devoted to food. The markets developers are already comparing it to world-class establishments like the Grand Bazaar in Istanbul; Boqueria in Barcelona, Spain; and Borough Market in London. marketline.nyc.MARSIA TAHA, one of the head chefs at Gustu, the restaurant in La Paz, Bolivia, that Claus Meyers Melting Pot Foundation started five years ago, will be cooking dinners at two of Mr. Meyers New York restaurants. On Feb. 20, she will be at Restaurant Norman, 29 Norman Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, serving a four-course dinner, $70, with tickets available at gustuatnorman.splashthat.com. On Feb. 21, she will take over the kitchen at Agern in Grand Central Terminal and prepare a five-course tasting menu, $155, as well as serve some dishes for the à la carte menu, agernrestaurant.com/events.EDS CHOWDER HOUSE After nine years, this seafood staple just steps from Lincoln Center has closed.GASTRONOMIE 491 The Upper West Side fancy food market and cafe has closed. Nicole Ahronee, the owner, said it may reopen in a few months as a different food-related entity.AdvertisementVIA EMILIA The appealing Flatiron district outpost for the food and wine of the Emilia-Romagna region, in business since 1994, has bid arrivederci.MICHELIN FRANCE 2018 The Michelin Red Guide for France 2018 was just published, and it added two restaurants to the top-tier three-star level. Christophe Bacquié, of the restaurant that bears his name in Provence, is known for his creative interpretations of the food of the region. La Maison des Bois-Marc Veyrat, in the mountainous Savoie region of eastern France, celebrates a chef who was among the early foragers and whose standing in the guide has fluctuated over the years. These additions bring the total three-star count to 28. Also in Savoie, among the five new two-star awards, is the Auberge du Père Bise, on the shores of Lake Annecy, with a new owner, Jean Sulpice. The restaurant and inn, once a celebrity magnet and now more than 100 years old, had three stars for decades starting in 1951 but sank in the ratings in recent years.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Vows By                     
LOIS SMITH BRADY

FEB. 9, 2018
Mariana Virginia Marshall loves being on the move and even has a blog called Mariana on the Move, on which she chronicles her far-flung travels and adventures. She grew up in Weeki Wachee, Fla., in a house full of books, she writes on the blog, with people who love the sunshine. After high school, she moved to Boston to attend Emerson College, and then to Colorado and Utah to work as a park ranger and a ski instructor.She spent the fall of 2011 walking through Spain on the Camino de Santiago and in the winter of 2012 beach-hopping in the Dominican Republic. She prefers to travel alone so she can burrow her way into the local culture in her own reserved and unassuming way.Friends dont ask me, How is Mariana? said Myriam Marshall, her mother. They ask me, Where is Mariana?In the fall of 2014, not long after a trip to Japan, she headed to Granada, Nicaragua, to volunteer as an English teacher with La Esperanza Granada, a nonprofit dedicated to improving the lives of local children. Initially, the two most striking things about this particular experience were the bats in her open-air bedroom and the children she taught, tiny bodies desperate for my love and affection.A few weeks after Ms. Marshall, now 29, started working, Thomas Forsyth Kelland, a new volunteer, arrived on a motorcycle he had been riding around Central America for weeks. He grew up in Sumner, New Zealand; studied chemical engineering at the University of Canterbury in Christchurch; got a job and then quit that job to travel. There are very few Kiwis Im aware of who have gone from college into a good job and stayed in it, said Peter Down, a longtime friend and fellow Kiwi. We tend to have itchy feet.AdvertisementMr. Kelland, now 28, made a strong impression. Within days, he had built a ramp from the street to the front door of the house where he lived with several volunteers from different parts of the world. He would ride his motorcycle directly in and out of the house and roar around town, often with more than one passenger hanging on.AdvertisementMs. Marshall lived in a house nearby and couldnt help but notice him. I was drawn by how people were drawn to him, she said. Everyone wanted to be around Tom. He had this amazing attitude, happy-go-lucky. He was gregarious to the extreme, yet he carried himself with a special sort of humble confidence, she said.Mr. Kelland mainly helped La Esperanza with building projects, but he occasionally worked as an assistant in the classroom and always managed to make the children laugh. One time, I was telling the kids to sit down, he recalled. I thought the word for sit down was suerte. Suerte, he soon discovered, actually means luck.I was just yelling Luck! at them and pointing at their chairs, he said. These were 5- and 6-year-old kids. The teacher must have thought, Theyre really scraping the bottom of the barrel with the volunteers.Although he was usually busy doing something hilarious or dangerous, he definitely noticed Ms. Marshall. She was a dark-haired beauty, he said, with a relentless mind thats always working. The other volunteers turned to her for advice about everything, including the best cure for food poisoning and the safest place to camp while surfing on Nicaraguas Pacific Coast.Mariana is very friendly, very confident, said Matt Conrady, a fellow volunteer who has remained a friend. She always looks like she knows whats going on. Shes somebody you cant mess with.Mr. Kelland, Ms. Marshall and a few others became particularly close, calling themselves the Familia. The Familia traveled on weekends, usually by chicken bus — old, converted school buses that serve as public transportation, for people as well as animals.The buses traveled slowly, which gave Ms. Marshall and Mr. Kelland time to get to know each other. We could talk about anything, and it was never dull, he said.AdvertisementThe one subject they were afraid to discuss was the fact that they were falling in love. Eventually, she texted him late one night — the date was Oct. 23 — saying that she had something important to tell him. Although she is shy, she said, she is even more impatient. It was way past midnight but he texted back, saying he would be right over.She waited on the steps outside her house. I had this image that he would ride up on his motorcycle and kiss me, she said.Instead he rode up on a rickety little bike he had borrowed. (He didnt want to wake anyone by riding his motorcycle.) The trip over there was something special, he said. I was riding a small push bike on the streets of Granada at about 2 a.m. to talk to the girl I cant stop thinking about. I wasnt nervous. It was actually quite calming.They sat on the steps for awhile, shoulder to shoulder, before she simply asked him if hed like to be her boyfriend. I was ecstatic, he said.As a couple, they continued exploring Nicaragua together and discovered they are very different travelers. She consults maps, guidebooks and the internet whenever possible, while he ignores all that and actually enjoys getting lost. He helps me live more in the moment and put down the book for a second, she said.Friends at home began realizing they were no longer solo travelers. I kept in touch with her while she was in Nicaragua through Facebook, said Emily Mohney, who worked with Ms. Marshall at Canyonlands National Park in Utah. She told me, Oh, by the way, I met this awesome, incredible guy. I have an adventure partner now. I think thats when I thought it could be serious, when she started calling him an adventure partner.In January 2015, Ms. Marshall moved to New York City to begin graduate school at Teachers College at Columbia University. Mr. Kelland followed her and secretly moved into her dorm room. He prepared dinner every night, often a pot of curry and a box of wine. It was a small space, but we were happy, she said.He eventually returned home, working as a chemical engineer, this time at CSL Limited, a biotechnology company in Melbourne, Australia. The lack of his presence was a physical sensation, Ms. Marshall said. I literally felt like someone was sitting on my chest.AdvertisementTo stay more closely connected, they instituted rituals such as drinking a bottle of champagne together — via Skype — on the 23rd of every month, to celebrate the fact that they officially started dating on Oct. 23, 2014. Because of the time difference, Mr. Kelland often imbibed before dawn. There were plenty of 23rds where Tom Skyped me from bed with a bottle of champagne and got dutifully drunk with me first thing in the morning in the name of love, she wrote in an email.In July 2016, a month after earning a masters degree in elementary education, she moved to Melbourne and is now an elementary schoolteacher there. On Christmas Eve that year, he proposed while they were walking on some seaside cliffs in his hometown, as waves crashed below and he played their favorite road trip tune on his iPhone, Songbird by Fleetwood Mac.Ms. Marshalls bachelorette party was the opposite of a wild weekend in Vegas. I went to Bali by myself and got my diving certification, she said. It was a terrifying adventure that left me with a feeling of accomplishment. That seemed like a good way to celebrate my wedding.On Jan. 5, Songbird played through speakers as the bride entered the Broad Axe Barn at Devils Thumb Ranch, a rustic lodge surrounded by mountains in Tabernash, Colo. Ms. Marshall, who has done a lot of skiing, hiking and river rafting in the vicinity, calls Colorado the area of the world where I really came to know myself.The wedding began just as sunset was beginning, and a yellowy-pink glow eventually transformed the scene outside, as if an Instagram filter had been applied.The ceremony was led by Hamish Kelland, the bridegrooms father, and Myriam Marshall, the brides mother. (In Colorado, couples can choose anyone to legally officiate at their wedding since no type of authorization is required.) The grooms mother, Ronene Kelland, and the brides father, Tim Marshall, watched nearby.Hey, kids, the brides mother began. The vows you are about to take will reward you as much as they will test you.She then added: Marriage is like catching the chicken bus. You jump on it and you hope for the best. You dont know exactly where its going, but you sure hope it takes you more or less where you want to go. Sometimes, the trip will have you crying with terror. Sometimes, the ride will have you squealing with thrills. But in both cases, you hang on tight.ON THIS DAYWhen Jan. 5, 2018. Where The Broad Axe Barn at Devils Thumb Ranch, a rustic lodge in Tabernash, Colo.Man of Letters Before the wedding, the groom gave the bride a wooden box containing several letters, with instructions about when to read them. One was to be read on the morning of their wedding, another on their first anniversary and another on their 10th. There was even a letter to be opened on their 50th.Dancing Lights After dinner, glow sticks were handed to the 100 or so guests, for wearing on the dance floor. People created necklaces and crowns and bracelets and anklets, said Abbey Hoefling, the wedding coordinator. The effect was something like the northern lights gone berserk.Trekking Together The next adventure will be a multiday backpacking trip on the Kepler Track in Fiordland National Park on the South Island of New Zealand.Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: Their First Adventures Began on a Slow Bus.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE NEW YORK TIMESFEB. 12, 2018
The Reader Center is one way we in the newsroom are trying to connect with you, by highlighting your perspectives and experiences and offering insight into how we work.How likely would impeachment proceedings be if the Russia investigation uncovers obstruction of justice? Could the inquiry unveil President Trumps tax returns? Why are anonymous sources necessary to our investigative work?Mark Mazzetti, The Timess Washington investigations editor, discussed the Russia inquiry in New York on Feb. 13 with fellow Times reporters Michael Schmidt and Scott Shane, and Nina Khrushcheva, a professor of international affairs at The New School. You can view a recording of the panel below.Last month, in preparation of the event, we asked readers to send us their questions for Mark about the Russia investigation. More than 300 readers wrote in. Here are Marks responses to a selection of the questions, which were lightly edited for clarity.Advertisement_____If President Trump is interviewed, does that signal that the investigation is nearing its end, or could it still be years before we know what will happen?— Daniel Kritz in Ann Arbor, Mich.AdvertisementExactly where Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation, is in his inquiry is speculation, largely because he and his team have been very effective in keeping a lid on the details. During these types of investigations, an interview with someone at the top is usually a signal that the inquiry is beginning to wrap up. By this logic, Mr. Mueller would want to have as much evidence as possible before speaking to the president, because the expectation is that he and his team would have only one shot at an interview.However, I said usually, and almost everything about this episode is unusual. It would be foolish to try to make predictions with any certainty. The expectation is that Mr. Mueller will deliver his findings to Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who will then decide how to proceed from there._____Will Mr. Mueller be able to access Mr. Trumps taxes, and will he be able to bring charges should there prove to be any impropriety in them?— Michael in New York CityYes, I would assume that Mr. Mueller has access to any financial documents he wants, including the presidents tax returns. As for bringing charges, it is generally assumed that the special counsel wont bring criminal charges against the president if he finds anything criminal, whether its financial crimes or something else. The current Justice Department guidance is that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and most legal experts believe that Mr. Mueller will follow that guidance.Instead, its generally assumed that Mr. Mueller would make recommendations to Mr. Rosenstein, who would then pass them along to Congress._____As I read The Timess coverage of the Russia investigation, I sometimes wonder if the paper has lost its way. Ive subscribed to it for decades, and I havent had this issue so much in the past. I am a Democrat and voted twice for President Obama, but I just cant understand why you put so much emphasis on Russia, helping to stir up even more of this unhealthy Cold War rhetoric. I am currently abroad, and I feel a growing frustration with the U.S., and its not just Mr. Trump. Will we soon have some facts that justify such a big investigation, or will this be going until doomsday?— Uschi Schueller in ZurichI think your frustration is natural, especially because The Times and other news outlets have been covering an investigation that doesnt have a clear end. And I agree with you that there is a real danger of creating an anti-Russia hysteria that would be dangerous not only in this country but also overseas.AdvertisementAt the same time, Ill defend the amount of attention that The Times has paid to the Russia story and to Mr. Muellers investigation. It is an extraordinary moment: Intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia took active steps to disrupt an American presidential election, and the Justice Department is investigating whether President Trump or his advisers helped assist that campaign. The investigation has already brought the indictment of the former Trump campaign chairman — albeit on charges unrelated to Russian collusion — and Mr. Trumps former national security adviser has pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. during the course of the investigation. These are very significant developments, and reason to keep digging on the story._____If the president is found guilty of obstruction, do you believe the Republican House will initiate impeachment proceedings?— Diogenes in FloridaIts still difficult to imagine the circumstances under which the Republican-controlled House of Representatives would move to impeach the president. If Mr. Muellers report to Mr. Rosenstein contains evidence of obstruction of justice — or lays out an argument for why President Trump has broken the law in another way — then that would certainly increase the pressure on Congress to act in some fashion. If such a report goes to Congress, in theory the House Judiciary Committee could begin impeachment proceedings. Again, thats very difficult to imagine in the current Congress.If the Democrats retake the House in the November election, then obviously the odds of impeachment proceedings would go up significantly._____Whos paying the lawyer fees for Mr. Trumps defense in the Russia investigation?— Joe Henson in DallasThe presidents personal lawyers said in November that Mr. Trump had begun to cover his own legal costs. Before then, the Republican National Committee had spent several hundred thousand dollars footing the legal bills.Mr. Trumps presidential campaign has used some of its cash to cover the legal fees for Mr. Trumps son, Donald Trump Jr. According to campaign finance filings, the campaign paid nearly $238,000 in July and August to the office of Alan S. Futerfas, the lawyer for Donald Trump Jr._____When using an anonymous source in reporting on the Russia investigation, U.S. official or something similar, what methods does The Times employ to ensure its reporting is not advancing a potential hidden agenda of the source? What investigations are undertaken to evaluate the sources possible motivations? And shouldnt this back story also be included to allow readers to evaluate the trustworthiness of the information?— Kathryn Locatell in Placerville, Calif.AdvertisementMany readers raise concerns about the use of anonymous sources, and not just on stories about the Russia investigation. Anonymous sources are not ideal, and we should always try to make available as much information as possible about any motivations or rationale the sources have for remaining anonymous.That said, stories about the Russia investigation — or any sensitive national security issue — would not be possible without the use of anonymous sources. During an ongoing federal investigation, much of it involving classified information, sources often will only speak to reporters if they are assured that their names wont be used. We believe its important to get the information they have in order to write stories that get to the facts underlying all the facets of this investigation: from Russias attempts to disrupt the 2016 election, to the contacts between President Trumps advisers and Russians, to Mr. Trumps efforts to undermine Mr. Muellers inquiry.But this doesnt mean we accept any information, grant anonymity and publish it. We always have to assess the motivations and potential biases of sources, and judge the information they provide against information we get from other sources. Readers need to trust that we dont publish stories that blindly advance the agenda of anonymous people, and its up to us to earn that trust._____If it is proved that Trump campaign officials received information from Russians and used it in the campaign, is that a crime?— Ed Surette in Wakefield, Mass.Not necessarily. Most legal experts say that colluding — or working together — with a foreign power during an election is not illegal in and of itself. Where campaign officials could get into trouble is if they were coordinating with Russia to do something that violates American law. If, for example, campaign officials told Russians to break into the Democratic National Committees servers, then the officials could be in legal jeopardy._____Im concerned that the National Rifle Association may have been a weak spot for the United States since its so conservative (and pro-Trump). Did Russia perhaps find a way to donate to Mr. Trump via the N.R.A.?— Pete Lindner in New York CityIts an interesting question that has been explored a bit, although theres certainly more work to do. McClatchy had a good story on this question, and reported that money to the N.R.A. is one of the issues that Mr. Mueller is examining. In November, The Times reported about a strange overture  during the campaign by Alexander Torshin, a top Russian official and longtime N.R.A. member, who was trying to broker a meeting between Mr. Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Trump campaign received the overture before the N.R.A.s annual convention in 2016 in Louisville, Ky._____A friend of mine says, Well, the C.I.A. has participated in interfering with elections, destabilizing governments and installing puppet regimes, so whats the big deal if Russia does it? (He cites Central and South American countries.)— Michael Waterhouse in Sydney, AustraliaAdvertisementYour friend is right. The C.I.A. has a long history of so-called influence operations to help favored candidates in foreign elections with money or propaganda, and on a few occasions even helping overthrow elected leaders seen as hostile to the United States. Such operations were more common during the Cold War, when the Soviet Union was often assisting a leftist candidate, and frequently involved open assistance as well as espionage. Election meddling by Americans appears to have become rarer in recent decades, though such covert operations sometimes dont come to light for years.But that does not mean the Russian meddling in 2016, which used hacking and social media fraud, was not a big deal. Americans understandably do not want the Kremlin to have a covert role in determining who becomes the American president._____Why is there so little reporting or investigation relative to attempts by Russians to hack into actual voting systems in multiple states?— Jerry Wortzman in Natick, Mass.One reason is in your word attempts. According to government agencies, there is no evidence that Russian hackers have managed to change vote totals or otherwise undermine the integrity of the actual vote. And there has been a good bit of reporting on the attempted hacking. But youre right that so much media attention has been focused on what Russia successfully did in 2016 — stealing and leaking emails and hijacking Facebook and Twitter — that the danger posed by future attacks on voting software has received too little attention._____Does the administration have a plan to prevent outside interference in our elections, whether its from Russia or China or another country? So far, I have read many news reports about the investigation, but very little about preventing a recurrence.— Dorothy Signal in Foster City, Calif.Youre right, there has been vastly more attention paid to what happened in 2016 than what could happen in future elections. Thats true of the media, Congress and most of the rest of the government. Occasionally, members of Congress will speak out about how there needs to be a coordinated focus to prevent the same thing from happening in the November elections and, of course, the next presidential election in 2020, but there doesnt seem to be any comprehensive plan to deal with the problem yet. American law enforcement and intelligence officials have already warned that Russian operations are underway to try to disrupt the 2018 campaign, though its unclear exactly what they are seeing at this point.View a recording of our panel Russia and the 2016 Election: What Lines Were Crossed? here:Michael S. Schmidt and Scott Shane contributed reporting.Follow the Reader Center on Twitter: @ReaderCenter.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Wines of The Times By                     
 ERIC ASIMOV
 
FEB. 8, 2018
The early reports on the 2014 vintage through much of Europe were not optimistic: rain, lots of it. In some places, it lasted through the spring. In parts of Italy, it carried on through much of the growing season.Farmers depend on rain when it comes at the right time and in the right amount to keep their vines healthy. But too much, combined with warm temperatures and plenty of humidity, can be a disaster, leading to mildew, fungus and rot. Yields can be diminished and, without the utmost care, the quality of the wines can be harmed.Yet to the surprise of many people who follow vintage reports as if they were the gospel, the wines from some areas where gloom was deepest have turned out surprisingly well.The Piedmont region of northwestern Italy was one such place where pessimism seemed to have the upper hand. But early reports on the 2014 Barbarescos from those who had visited the region — and tasted from barrels and bottles — indicated that the wines were not at all bad. On the contrary, most tasters asserted, they were quite good.AdvertisementAt one time, perhaps as recently as 25 years ago, a vintage like 2014 might have been a total washout. Growers did not always have the resources or the know-how to combat such looming problems.AdvertisementBut today, regions where growing conditions were once on the cusp of being acceptable — like the Piedmont, Champagne or the Mosel Valley in Germany — experience far fewer bad vintages than they once did. The reasons include climate change, and an increased ability to manage vineyards under difficult circumstances.When conditions are not ideal, the best producers know what to do. They have the equipment, philosophy and labor force to get it done. But it means a lot of hard work in the vineyard, examining vines and grapes, bunch by bunch, first trying to provide them with the best chance to prosper, and then looking for evidence of damage and eliminating problems.With the 2014 Barbarescos beginning to show up in shops, the wine panel decided it was a good time to check in on them, and recently tasted 20 bottles. Florence Fabricant and I were joined for the tasting by two guests: Jenni Guizio, wine director at Maialino near Gramercy Park, and Joe Campanale, owner and beverage director of Fausto, which opened recently near Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn.Barbaresco has sometimes been an overlooked and underestimated wine, especially when compared with the more exalted Barolo, its sibling to the southwest, which, like Barbaresco, is made entirely of the nebbiolo grape.The Barbaresco region is slightly warmer, lower and more protected than the Barolo zone, and the soils tend to be sandier. As a result, the wines are often a bit more accessible at an earlier age than Barolo. They are required by law to be aged for at least two years before they can be released, as against Barolos three years.Even so, these wines are never easy to drink young. Nebbiolo is notoriously tannic, with plenty of acidity, and regardless of how it compares with Barolo, Barbaresco is powerful in its own right. Even the most immediately appealing of the 2014s would benefit from another few years of aging before drinking.In the tasting, we found many good bottles, characterized by freshness, expressiveness and a lovely balance. But the wines were inconsistent. Some were oddly green, or overly astringent. And we were all surprised by how oaky some wines seemed, enough so that the barrel flavors may never integrate.AdvertisementOakiness was a particular problem in the Piedmont in the 1980s and ′90s, when many younger producers began to age their wines in small barrels of new French oak rather than in the traditional big vats, made of Slavonian oak, which were used year after year.The Slavonian oak allows minute amounts of oxygen to interact with the wine, giving it the structure and stability to age for many years. Since the vats are generally not new, they impart little in the way of wood flavors or oak tannins.New, small barrels of French oak, by contrast, permit a faster exchange of oxygen, which softens the grape tannins more quickly. But the wines absorb oak tannins, which have a markedly different texture than grape tannins, as well as wood flavors. New oak also tends to fix the color of the wine at a darker hue. Some producers prefer that, as nebbiolo naturally fades to a kind of garnet color, which consumers sometimes mistakenly associate with weakness in wines.By the 2000s, many of the producers who had adopted French oak had moderated their use, so the wines no longer had the extreme oaky character of some of the previous vintages. Perhaps thats why we were taken aback by some of the wines in the tasting, in which the oak was overbearing and out of balance.Oakiness was not an issue in the bottles we liked best. Our top wine, from De Forville, was a classic Barbaresco of the old school, with beautiful floral and anise flavors and an earthy minerality. It was a complete wine and, though accessible now, will only get better with age — say, five years or more. It was also our best value at just $30.Our No. 2 bottle came from Produttori del Barbaresco, one of the great wine cooperatives of the world and always a reliable producer. We found the 14 to be impeccably balanced with flavors of red fruit, herbs and menthol. No. 3 was the Basarin from Marco e Vittorio Adriano, dense, tannic and powerful, yet pretty, with floral and mineral aromas and flavors.I should note that this was in no way a complete tasting of the 2014s. Rather, it was a cross-section of the vintage, an indication of what may be found when more wines become available. We would not in any case have been able to include some of the most renowned wines, like those from Angelo Gaja or Bruno Giacosa, who died last month, as they exceed our $100-per-bottle price cap.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At No. 4 was the Rio Sordo from Cascina delle Rose, an elegant, relatively soft wine, with aromas and flavors of red fruits and flowers. No. 5 came from Luca Bosio, a producer whose wines I have not tried before. The 2014 was dense and substantial, and it will definitely take time before the flavors of dark fruit and anise reveal themselves.Our No. 6 wine, the Rombone from Fiorenzo Nada, was clearly of a modern style, aged in French oak barrels. But unlike some of the wines we rejected, their presence in the Nada was not overbearing or heavy-handed, and the ripe fruit and oak should integrate well.AdvertisementOther 2014s that were worth noting were the elegant Castello di Neive; the tannic Vallegrande from Ca del Baio; the subtle, earthy Ceretto and the somewhat oaky, but balanced Sottimano Pajoré.In the end, we were inclined to like the vintage and look forward to drinking our favorites. Nonetheless, we were puzzled by the inconsistency in the tasting.Jenni suggested that some producers may not have had the resources to manage 2014s tricky weather conditions, which, as I said, would have required much labor-intensive work in the vineyards. Its yet another reminder, after a year of devastating hurricanes and destructive wildfires, that nature still often has the last say.BEST VALUE★★★½ DE FORVILLE BARBARESCO 2014 $30Structured yet approachable, with pure, pretty floral and mineral aromas and flavors. (Rosenthal Wine Merchant, New York)★★★ PRODUTTORI DEL BARBARESCO BARBARESCO 2014 $35Impeccable balance of fruit, tannins and acidity, with flavors of red fruit, herbs and menthol. (Vias, New York)★★★ MARCO E VITTORIO ADRIANO BARBARESCO BASARIN 2014 $32Densely flavored and tannic, with pretty aromas of flowers and great minerality. (Monsieur Touton, New York)★★½ CASCINA DELLE ROSE BARBARESCO RIO SORDO 2014 $52Soft, elegant and accessible, with aromas and flavors of red fruit and flowers. (Polaner Selections, Mount Kisco, N.Y.)★★½ LUCA BOSIO BARBARESCO 2014 $40Densely structured and substantial, with underlying flavors of dark fruit and anise; needs time. (Quintessential, Napa, Calif.)Advertisement★★½ FIORENZO NADA BARBARESCO ROMBONE 2014 $50Modern style, with ripe fruit and well-integrated oak. (Martin Scott Wines/Winebow, New York)★★ CASTELLO DI NEIVE BARBARESCO 2014 $33Elegant, with flavors of menthol and licorice and a touch of well-integrated oak. (Leonardo LoCascio Selections/Winebow, New York)★★ CA DEL BAIO BARBARESCO VALLEGRANDE 2014 $45Powerfully tannic, with resolute floral aromas and flavors of dark fruit. (Omniwines, Flushing, N.Y.)★★ CERETTO BARBARESCO 2014 $39Subtle and earthy, with aromas of dark fruit, flowers and a touch of oak. (Leonardo LoCascio Selections/Winebow)★★ SOTTIMANO BARBARESCO PAJORÉ 2014 $58Straightforward flavors of red fruits, flowers and oak. (Skurnik Wines, New York)Recipe: Tagliatelle With Mushrooms in Red WineHow do you tame tannins? I look for foods with meatiness and fat — and perhaps some bitter swagger — to keep in check the demanding dryness in wines like Barbaresco, especially young ones. In this dish, fresh pasta is tossed with pancetta, cremini mushrooms, and some tomato and red wine. Anchovy paste contributes a gloss of pantry-shelf umami. The meal is easily assembled in less than an hour, but, for the best outcome, it calls for some hand work. The pancetta should be diced by hand, the mushrooms are best chopped with a knife, and the tomatoes crushed with a fork. The upside is that you will not have to wash the food processor. Use tongs, instead of a colander, to drain the tagliatelle so some water clings to the pasta instead of going down the drain. Use extra pasta water if needed, to moisten the mixture before serving. FLORENCE FABRICANTFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Nice Surprises Emerge From the Rainy Gloom of 2014.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ERIC SCHMITTFEB. 4, 2018
WASHINGTON — Thousands of Islamic State foreign fighters and family members have escaped the American-led military campaign in eastern Syria, according to new classified American and other Western military and intelligence assessments, a flow that threatens to tarnish American declarations that the militant group has been largely defeated.TURKEYAfrinEUPHRATESVALLEYRaqqaDeir al-ZourSYRIAEuphratesIRAQAl ShafahLEBANONDamascus100 milesFEB. 4, 2018
As many of the fighters flee unfettered to the south and west through Syrian Army lines, some have gone into hiding near Damascus, the Syrian capital, and in the countrys northwest, awaiting orders sent by insurgent leaders on encrypted communications channels.Other battle-hardened militants, some with training in chemical weapons, are defecting to Al Qaedas branch in Syria. Others are paying smugglers tens of thousands of dollars to spirit them across the border to Turkey, with an eventual goal of returning home to European countries.The sobering assessments come despite a concerted effort to encircle and annihilate — as Defense Secretary Jim Mattis put it — Islamic State fighters in Raqqa, the groups self-proclaimed capital, which fell in the fall, and pursue other insurgents who fled south into the Euphrates River Valley toward the border with Iraq.AdvertisementISIS fighters are fleeing Syria and Iraq, the homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, said in remarks in Washington last week. Jihadists are going underground, dispersing to other safe havens, including on the internet, and returning to their home countries.AdvertisementGen. Paul J. Selva, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters last week that the remaining Islamic State leadership, even while on the run, still had fairly robust communications with its shadowy network of fighters now on the lam.While President Trump highlighted the liberation of almost all of the Islamic States territory in Iraq and Syria in his State of the Union address last week, American military and intelligence officials say the group is still able to inspire and enable followers to carry out attacks. Mr. Trump seemed to acknowledged this in his speech, noting, There is much more work to be done.Analysts say they are also seeing signs that Islamic State fighters are adopting guerrilla tactics to terrorize civilians.The group is transitioning into an underground organization that places more weight on asymmetric tactics, like suicide bombings against soft targets in government-secured areas like Baghdad, said Otso Iho, a senior analyst at Janes Terrorism and Insurgency Center at IHS Markit in London.Mr. Iho cited an attack by two suicide bombers in Baghdad last month that killed three dozen people and injured 90 more. The attack took place in a busy Baghdad square where day laborers gather to look for work.Estimates of how many fighters may have escaped into the deserts of Syria or Iraq and beyond are difficult to pin down, but American and other Western intelligence and counterterrorism analysts with access to classified assessments put the number in the low thousands. Many are traveling with spouses and children who are likely to have been radicalized during more than three years of Islamic State control of the region and could pose security risks as well, analysts say.In December, Col. Ryan Dillon, the chief spokesman for the American-led military campaign in Iraq and Syria, said in a briefing with Pentagon reporters: Syrian regime commanders in eastern Syria suggest that ISIS fighters from the Middle Euphrates River Valley may have slipped through porous Syrian and Russian defenses to arrive in areas near Damascus.AdvertisementAsked late last month by The New York Times about indications that as many as 1,000 fighters and family members had fled the Euphrates River area just in recent days, Colonel Dillons command replied in a statement: We know that the Syrian regime has given ISIS the leeway to travel through their area of operations, but we cannot confirm any alleged incidents or operations that are taking place outside our area of operations.The United States military is concerned that a Turkish offensive against the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces in Afrin, in northern Syria, has worsened the problem. The S.D.F. has been working with the Americans in former Islamic State-held areas to interdict fleeing jihadists, but those efforts have been greatly reduced as the Kurds have shifted resources to reinforce Afrin.Mustafa Balli, a spokesman for the Syrian Democratic Forces headquarters, blamed the Turkish assault on Afrin for what he said was the Islamic States resurgence.Since this invasion of Afrin by Turkey, ISIS is getting stronger in the south, he said. The battle against ISIS in the south, and the Turks in Afrin, is the same battle. The Turks want to give another chance to ISIS to grow again. Before the Turkish invasion, we were very close to finishing ISIS.Some 40,000 fighters from more than 120 countries poured into the battles in Syria and Iraq over the past four years, American and other Western officials say. While thousands died on the battlefield, officials say many thousands more probably survived to slip away to conflicts in Libya, Yemen or the Philippines, or have gone into hiding in countries like Turkey. About 295 Americans are believed to have traveled to Iraq or Syria, or tried to, American officials said.Of more than 5,000 Europeans who joined those ranks, as many as 1,500 have returned home, including many women and children, and most of the rest are dead or still fighting, according to Gilles de Kerchove, the European Unions top counterterrorism official.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The thought that these foreign fighters who have participated in this fight now for over two years will quietly leave Syria and return to their jobs as shopkeepers in Paris, in Brussels, in Copenhagen, is ludicrous, said General Selva, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Thats a very compelling problem.Still, the number of Islamic State fighters returning home to Europe and North Africa has been much smaller than anticipated, counterterrorism officials say. That is in part because the Trump administration intensified its focus on preventing fighters from seeping out of Raqqa and Mosul, their former stronghold in Iraq, and more militants fought to the death than expected. Hundreds also surrendered in Raqqa.Hundreds of others have been captured and are being held by American-backed Kurdish militias in northern Syria, raising fears among United States military officials of potentially creating a breeding ground for extremists — repeating a key security mistake of the Iraq war.AdvertisementBut the new assessments, bolstered by reports from analysts and smugglers in the region, suggest that Islamic State fighters are fleeing to more hospitable parts of Syria and Iraq, or to third countries where they can lie low.Beyond the recent suicide bombings in Baghdad, a major American airstrike last month demonstrates the Islamic States continued resiliency and threat, military officials said.Armed Reaper drones and Navy F/A-18 fighters from the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt carried out a strike on Jan. 20 in Al Shafah, Syria, in the Euphrates River Valley, that killed about 150 fighters, the American military said. The strike, one of the largest single aerial assaults against the Islamic State in three years, was based on intelligence collected over about a week. The strike hit two large buildings that were used as a command headquarters and a media distribution center, military officials said.The size and concentration of fighters took American officials by surprise. The ISIS headquarters contained a heavy concentration of ISIS fighters who appear to have been massing for movement, Maj. Gen. James B. Jarrard, commanding general for Special Operations forces in Iraq and Syria, said in a statement.ISIS continues to demonstrate the ability to mass large numbers in its attempt to retain a stronghold in Syria, the American-led command in Iraq said in the same statement.Ahmad Ramadan, the head of the Euphrates Center Against Violence and Terrorism in Istanbul, said that the Islamic State was still present in many villages east of the Euphrates River — the informal demarcation line between Russian-backed Syrian troops to the west and American-backed Syrian militias to the east. ISIS nowadays are spreading all over Syria, he said via Facebook chat.Government and independent analysts in Syria and in Washington, including the Institute for the Study of War, said there was a thriving trade in smuggling Islamic State fighters across the border into Turkey, where intelligence officials believe they are linking with clandestine cells.According to the independent British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, senior Islamic State operatives from Raqqa and Deir al-Zour, in the Euphrates River Valley, have paid bribes of $20,000 to $30,000 for safe passage into Turkey.AdvertisementI smuggled about 50 ISIS fighters into Turkey, said Abu Omar, a smuggler between Syria and Turkey, adding that they were a mix of Syrian and foreign fighters, often disguised in womens clothes to help elude Turkish border patrols.Abu Omar added that the number of fleeing Islamic State fighters and senior leaders, including many foreigners, increased over the summer when the American-backed offensive against Raqqa began.I was really shocked when I saw them, he said in a WhatsApp message. They were wearing cool clothes, classic jeans with many necklaces, trying to disguise as much as they can. They hid their passports in their boots. They were completely shaved; you never guess they are ISIS. They didnt speak any Arabic, few words.Hwaida Saad contributed reporting from Beirut, Lebanon, Rod Nordland from Kobani, Syria, and Karam Shoumali from Berlin.A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: ISIS Fighters Flee Syria Front Line For New Battles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Restaurant Review By                     
 PETE WELLS
 
FEB. 6, 2018

CreditCole Wilson for The New York Times        Among his other innovations, Grant Achatz is a pioneer in menu typography. At Alinea, in Chicago, courses on his tasting menus used to be printed in a long, snaking column; sweeter dishes drifted out to the right margin and more savory ones swayed left.At the Aviary, the willfully atypical cocktail lounge he founded in Chicago in 2011, the name of each drink is preceded by a bird silhouette like the ones on the endpapers of Roger Tory Petersons field guides. The nearer the silhouette is to the name, the more the cocktail will resemble something Nick and Nora Charles would have recognized. The farther away the bird, the weirder the drink.During my first flight at the Aviarys new Manhattan incarnation, my server pointed to the entry for Bring Another Smurf, a mezcal and coconut drink. If you look over here, he said, sliding his finger left, the bird is all the way out.Is a cocktail improved when its bird is all the way out? The question pecked at me each time the elevator let me out on the 35th floor of the Mandarin Oriental New York, site of the Aviary NYC and its quieter, shadow-filled sibling, the Office NYC. It also is originally from Chicago, where Mr. Achatz and his partner, Nick Kokonas, have built one superb, genre-bending establishment after another.AdvertisementFor years they have flirted with New York. It took a hotel deal to get them here. The cloned Aviary and Office are undeniably expressions of Mr. Achatzs aesthetic, with his fondness for Rube Goldberg devices, audience participation, old ideas tilted off their usual axis and novel ideas launched into orbit.AdvertisementThe wildest notions are reserved for drinks in the Aviary. Mr. Achatzs food plays second fiddle in both rooms, and plays it beautifully. Yet neither space really shows off his full powers. In this perch above Central Park, the bird is half out — or, if you look at a different way, half in.Like many Aviary drinks, the one called Science A.F. (ostensibly a reference to the microbiologist Alexander Fleming) is made at the table. A small blue flame compels Scotch and other ingredients in the lower chamber of a vacuum coffee maker to ascend to an upper chamber filled with fruit tea, as dry-ice fog carpets the table. This took about five minutes and produced something that tasted like the fruit punch that might be served at a convention for designated drivers.It does not quite give you your birds worth, I think. On the other hand, I admired the balance and complexity of the Wake and Bake, a mutant rye manhattan made with coffee- and orange-flavored vermouth. What I cant imagine ever loving is being asked by a server to stick my head inside the inflated plastic bag in which it is served, to see that it really did smell like an everything bagel. It did, but it was one of several moments when I felt like a parent helping the Aviary staff to complete a project for the science fair.After a round or two, the alert drinker may become gun-shy. A friend Id invited for lunch gamely sipped a Boom Goes the Dynamite, which had never cooled below tepid despite having fumed vigorously from the dry ice inside its laboratory flask. Leaving a third undrunk, she asked for a Bloody Mary.Our Bloody Mary is very unique, our server said brightly. It takes about 15, 20 minutes to make.Is it served ... cold? my friend asked, hope flickering weakly in her voice.It was. A few minutes later, a relatively traditional Bloody was poured over many tiny ice marbles inside the bowl of what looked like a small spittoon. Around the spittoons broad brim were arranged five garnishes, or side dishes, or condiments, including chopped razor clam with celery sorbet and a little pillbox of horseradish jelly.When we were alone again, she sighed and said, I was hoping for a glass. The Aviarys Bloody Mary, by the way, costs $38.AdvertisementWe had come to try the daytime menu the Aviary recently introduced after two months or so of nighttime-only business.While the drinks gave us a bumpy ride, all was smooth once we embarked on the three-course, $45 lunch, starting with a roasted squash soup and a salad. Both had pieces of fruit and vegetable that had somehow been talked into tasting like more than they were. Finally there was a sandwich of fried, buttermilk- and yuzu-brined chicken thigh with pickles and shredded iceberg lettuce on a bun with more sesame seeds to the square inch than Ive ever seen. The dressing was a toasted sesame sauce, and, like everything else about the sandwich, it was excellent.Apart from a fried pork rind the size of a dish towel, the items on the evening menu are generally wispy: a single, wonderful tempura shrimp with slices of yuzu-scented pear; an octopus croquette under streamers of bonito. There is one of Mr. Achatzs earliest inventions, the raviolo filled to the bursting point with black-truffle broth. It is still a marvel. There was only one dish I did not like, but boy, did I not like it: cold pork belly in a bland goo of banana curry, sandwiched between flat discs of iceberg lettuce.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.These plates run from $11 to $29. Two or three would make for an interesting postcard from the inside of Mr. Achatzs head. Ordering the whole roster would leave you a couple hundred dollars poorer and no wiser, though. The menu is not designed for that kind of eating.Neither is the Aviary, although its hard to say just what it is designed for. Deals between chefs and hotels invariably entail compromise, but Mr. Achatz and Mr. Kokonas may have given up too much here.Sunk a few steps below the hotel lobby and dominated by a view of the Central Park skyline, the space is an awkward combination of destination and waiting room. Achatz devotees who paid for their spots weeks earlier through Mr. Kokonass reservations and guest-tracking service, Tock, may find themselves at curved leather lounge chairs next to hotel guests taking phone calls between meetings.Theres no sense of arrival, nothing to suggest youre entering the domain of a restaurant group that has always refused to do things the usual way.You do get that sense when you enter the Office. The Chicago Office is downstairs from the Aviary; in New York it is behind a wooden door just past the Aviarys cocktail-assembly station. Suddenly faceless hotel luxury gives way to a den of leather club chairs, parquet floors, clothbound books, manual typewriters, contemporary art, eccentric antiques.The two Offices are usually called speakeasies. This one looks to me more like the library of stately Wayne Manor.AdvertisementThe theme is tradition. This being an Achatz project, the theme is pushed to its limits and beyond. Micah Melton, the beverage director of both lounges (in both cities), scours auctions and private sales for old bottles of spirits. Some of the older ones go here for $500 an ounce or more, straight up. Others are mixed into what the menu calls dusty bottle cocktails.As a way to get rid of money, this is both alluring and appalling. I couldnt bring myself to order a $475 old-fashioned stirred from bourbon bottled in 1969. But I couldnt resist learning what happens when 75 grams of shaved truffle soak in a bottle of Chartreuse. (Its fascinating, but not more delicious than untruffled Chartreuse.)The short food menu appears to have been printed by letterpress. On it are a number of time-honored plutocratic pleasures, such as cold oysters, foie gras terrine, and a really fine and forcefully seasoned tartare of ivory-veined rib-eye.Steamed mussels in cream with leeks and bacon are $35. If any pot of mussels is worth that much money, this is it. Vegetable crudités may sound like nothing. Theyre very much something, a miniature forest of fruits and vegetables treated this way and that, then set on chipped ice with a dip — a harmonious, understated vadouvan-squash cream the last time I went.The contortions that Mr. Melton and Mr. Achatz put liquor through at the Aviary are as imaginative as cuisine gets; they probably have more freedom than they would if the place were a restaurant. But rather than asking how a Bloody Mary, say, can be improved, or what its essence is, they seem to ask: How would the Aviary serve it?The answer always seems to require equipment. The bird-all-the-way-out drinks especially are like elaborate magic tricks with metal boxes into which the beautiful assistant will vanish. Somehow, the boxes upstage the assistant. The cocktails at the Office are more like close-up card tricks. My favorite is: Mix me a drink and Ill make it disappear.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.80 Columbus Circle(West 60th Street)Upper West Side212-805-8800websiteAtmosphere The Aviary is a comfortably modern if generic hotel lounge; the Office does a hushed impersonation of a movie millionaires library. Service is extremely pleasant. Some servers are still learning the ropes, but there are a lot of ropes to be learned with any Grant Achatz endeavor.Sound Moderate.Recommended Dishes Aviary: black truffle explosion; octopus croquette; tempura Hawaiian shrimp; giant crispy pork skin. Office: mussels; salmon rillettes; rib-eye tartare. Aviary: $11 to $29. Office: $21 to $64.Drinks and Wine The Aviary is inventive and the Office respects tradition, but both mix an array of cocktails that would be unimaginable anywhere else. Beer and wine are available, but beside the point.Price $$$ (expensive)Open Aviary: Daily from lunch until late night, with a one-hour late afternoon break. Office: Daily from cocktail hour until late night.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access An elevator serves the accessible restrooms and the dining rooms, with some sunken areas reached by ramps.
What the Stars Mean
            Ratings range from zero to four stars. Zero is poor, fair or satisfactory. One star, good. Two stars, very good. Three stars, excellent. Four stars, extraordinary.
        
                This information was last updated: Feb. 6, 2018 EMAIL petewells@nytimes.com. And follow Pete Wells on Twitter: @pete_wells.A version of this review appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Science-Minded Chef Tries Cloning.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Jonathan WolfeGood morning on this brightening Monday.Will New York be the next state to legalize marijuana? Gov. Andrew M. Cuomos 2018 budget plan calls for a study of the pros and cons.If legal weed comes to New York City, it would finally achieve legitimacy in a place with a long, mixed record of tolerance and crackdowns. Heres a quick spin through the cultural history of pot here.• In the 1930s, as authorities nationwide waged war on reefer madness, a doctor at the Manhattan Detention Complex urged treatment, not incarceration, for the citys marijuana addicts, including jazz musicians who find it necessary to take it before playing.•  Pot moved out of jazz clubs and marginalized communities and into mainstream (read: white) culture with the help of the Beat authors. Jack Kerouac, according to his first wife, took his first hit from the saxophonist Lester Young at Mintons Playhouse in Harlem in the early 1940s.• The New York Academy of Medicines 1944 La Guardia report, commissioned by the mayor, debunked the myth of the murderous marijuana fiend. Researchers found that a typical smoker readily engages in conversation with strangers, discussing freely his pleasant reactions to the drug and philosophizing on subjects pertaining to life in a manner which, at times, appears to be out of keeping with his intellectual level.• By 1950, cannabis plants grew as tall as Christmas trees in vacant lots and underpasses in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens. But a 1951 eradication effort yanked up 41,000 pounds of the plant.• One of the first pro-pot marches took place outside the New York Womens House of Detention in Greenwich Village in 1965, spearheaded by Allen Ginsberg.• And in the late 80s  the underground green aid movement, a forerunner to legal medical marijuana, supplied ganja to AIDS patients to ease the effects of the harsh drugs given to patients at the time.Theres no question: New York has played a very important role, historically, as a location for the cannabis phenomenon in the United States, said Martin A. Lee, the author of Smoke Signals and the director of Project CBD, a nonprofit that publicizes research on medical uses of cannabis.• The city cracked down again in the 1990s under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose aggressive policing tactics, like stop-and-frisk, disproportionately affected blacks and Latinos and made New York the pot arrest capital of America.• Mayor Bill de Blasio — who toked as an N.Y.U. undergrad — promised to cut back on marijuana arrests, but they have barely budged and racial disparities persist.Culturally, New York has been way out ahead of the law when it comes to cannabis, Mr. Lee said. But politically, New York is certainly not a pioneer or a profile in courage. Now, its more toward the caboose instead of the front of the train.Heres what else is happening:Welcome to your workweek. The skies will clear this morning, but a cold breeze is blowing and the temperature will drop and hover around freezing.Things get messy again on Wednesday.• Years of investigation into the corruption allegations against Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey unraveled over a two-week span in January. [New York Times]• An ex-Albany insider turned star witness in the bribery case against a former senior aide to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is expected to tell all in court, but many say his word cant be trusted. [New York Times]• Forced to leave Puerto Rico, a man who suffers from anxiety and depression found comfort in sharing his possessions with others who had to flee the island post-Hurricane Maria. [New York Times]• The owner of a vintage clothing store is being forced to move it because of developing high-rises in Long Island City — the second time residential developments pushed her out. [New York Times]• A church in New Jersey honored four chaplains who gave their life vests to others as their military transport ship was sinking during World War II. [New York Times]• As Black History Month shines a spotlight on African-American culture, a deeper look reveals that many stories go untold. These photographs begin to tell them. [New York Times]• A security guard at the National September 11 Memorial and Museum is being charged with trafficking firearms. [New York Times]• New Jersey lawmakers are debating proposed legislation to ban menthol cigarettes, which would make it the first state to do so. [CBS New York]• Governor Cuomo signed an executive order that bans state agencies from doing business with companies that promote or tolerate discrimination. [New York Daily News]• A carriage horse that was startled by a toppling umbrella along Central Park crashed into two parked cars, injuring its three passengers. [New York Post]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Kiss on the Platform• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• The once-banned 1973 film The Spook Who Sat By the Door, about a black C.I.A.-agent-turned-militant, screens at BAM Rose Cinemas in Brooklyn. 4:30 and 9:30 p.m. [$15]• The New York Timess chief dance critic, Alastair Macaulay, talks about the choreographers Frederick Ashton and George Balanchine at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts near Lincoln Center. 6 p.m. [Free, reservation required]•  A blues concert by Valerie June will be held at Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• Sample food and kosher wine from around the world at the Kosher Food and Wine Experience at Chelsea Piers. 6:30 p.m. [$125]• The author of the book The Suffragents discusses the history of the Mens League for Woman Suffrage at the Greater Astoria Historical Society in Long Island City, Queens. 7 p.m. [Free]• Islanders host Predators, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers at Stars, 8:30 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.In other marijuana news, here are some of your responses to last months request for thoughts on legalization:For:Not only does cannabis have, almost without argument, various medical uses, but the amount of revenue brought in by taxes on cannabis could help pay for things we obviously are having trouble finding money for: maintenance and repair of New Yorks fading and failing infrastructure, homelessness issues, affordable housing issues and drug rehabilitation issues.— Jamie Legon, 66, Morningside HeightsPetty arrests for possession of marijuana have disproportionately targeted low-income communities of color for too long. As a step toward making our justice system more fair and modern, lets rethink how we criminalize drug use.— Dylan Lee, 22, Bedford-Stuyvesant, BrooklynRecreational marijuana should definitely be legal in New York. However, we as a society need to have an honest conversation about the pros and cons of using marijuana — there are many. We also need to remove any and all barriers into medical research of the drug by unbiased scientists so that we can improve our understanding of the effects of this substance that so many of us consume.— André Salerno, 32, Williamsburg, BrooklynAgainst:I am against legalization simply because it smells bad and New Yorkers live and commute in tight spaces. In New York City the skunky stink seeps into my apartment and I can smell it walking on the sidewalk or lingering on the clothes of subway riders.— Marianne Harmon, 41, Upper West SideI am absolutely against America becoming a nation of potheads. We need our critical thinking more than ever now, and marijuana is scientifically documented to slow reaction time and motivation, cause changes in the brain and negatively affect the lungs.— Anne Russell, 80, Wrightsville Beach, N.C.I do not support the legalization of marijuana for a simple reason that the cost treating people with potential side effects of the drug is enormous.— Howard Zhang, 26, West New York, N.J.Wait, Im confused:Oh, its not legal in New York? I walk down the street smelling its pungent aroma just about everywhere in the city. You can get it delivered to your home in an hour. Why on earth dont we legalize it? Everyone would be way happier and more chill.— Joanne Bernbaum, 59, Williamsburg, BrooklynNew York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFixesBy Tina RosenbergGene Sharp died last week. What Sun Tzu and Clausewitz were to war, Sharp, who was 90, was to nonviolent struggle — strategist, philosopher, guru. An American academic who worked from his modest Boston home, Sharp studied and cataloged examples of nonviolent resistance, looking at why they succeeded or failed.His most influential work was From Dictatorship to Democracy, a pamphlet written for Burmas opposition in 1993. It has been translated into dozens of languages — often clandestinely — and became a handbook for civic resistance movements around the world. (Much of Sharps writing is available free on the website of his organization, the Albert Einstein Institute.)Sharp is best known as a strategist for movements in the most dire circumstances — those trying to create political change when there is no institutional path. But his ideas have shaped civic protest movements in the United States and other democracies, and they contain some surprising advice for the resistance to President Trump.First, heres a brief summary of what Sharp taught the world:Nonviolence is usually the most effective strategy for winning power. When Sharp began studying the history of nonviolence, it was seen — and dismissed — as a tactic used by saints and pacifists: sitting in front of bulldozers, appealing to the consciences of men with none.Sharps major contribution was to demonstrate that nonviolent struggle is not only effective, its superior to armed struggle in most circumstances. Nonviolent action is not an appeal to a dictators conscience. It is a war, but fought without arms.Research studies support this point. As a way to topple dictators, nonviolent struggle has double the success rate of violent resistance. And the bigger the role played by mass nonviolent resistance, the freer the country and the more durable the freedom that emerge.Every leader, no matter how despotic, relies on the consent of his people. If they withdraw their consent — stop carrying out orders — the regime falls.Some groups are vital pillars of governing regimes — typically the police, the military, political officials and wealthy businessmen. They can also be labor unions, farmers, older people, young people. The job of the resistance is to pull out these pillars from supporting the dictator.Some examples:International sanctions target a dictatorships important officials and civilian friends — and try to persuade them they would be richer under a different government.In Birmingham, Ala., in 1963, the civil rights movement boycotted downtown stores owned by politically influential backers of the citys segregationist policies, turning them into opponents of those laws.In Serbia, old people provided the critical support for Slobodan Milosevic, who relied on nationalism to keep himself in power after starting four Balkan wars. During his re-election campaign in 2000, the resistance group Otpor figured out how to turn this constituency against him. It had young people provoke the government into jailing them and calling them spies and traitors. This got many a Grandma angry.People have more power than they think.But they are often trapped by their perception of helplessness. One must strengthen the oppressed population themselves in their determination, self-confidence and resistance skills, he wrote in From Dictatorship to Democracy.Nonviolent protest involves more than walking around with a sign. Sharps first work, The Politics of Nonviolent Action, a three-volume series published in 1973, lists 198 tactics that movements use. Marches and parades are just two. The other 196 include holding mock awards ceremonies, staying home from work, skywriting, rude gestures, suspending sports matches, performing guerrilla theater, staging work slowdowns — even withholding sex.The list, of course, does not include tweeting and liking posts on Facebook. It is nevertheless still a thought-provoking source of ideas. (The liberal group MoveOn.org recently use a form of skywriting: It hired a plane to fly a banner over the districts of three California members of Congress during the debate over Trumpcare..)What can the resistance to Trump make of Sharps ideas?Dont just work through institutions. Work around them.The civic protest groups formed since the 2016 election have two goals. Some aim to win elections in 2018. Others aim to influence the vote of members of Congress now. Thats the major work of the several thousand Indivisible groups around the country, for example.This is straightforward. The best impact is to use the power of local groups and nonviolent movements to exert pressure in the ways the system was designed to receive pressure, said Elizabeth Beavers, who covers foreign policy issues for Indivisible.Indivisible modeled its tactics on those of the Tea Party, and they are smart ones: Go in person to see your own member of Congress. Focus on the issue he or she will vote on next.Sharp calls this haunting officials — No. 31 on his list. This is  pulling out the pillars, said Ben Wikler, the Washington director of MoveOn.org. There is no more important pillar holding up the Trump administration than Congressional Republicans. And the way to pull them away from Trump is to demonstrate that their support for his agenda threatens their re-election.But the strategy has had only limited success. Most members of Congress need not worry about the general election, in part thanks to gerrymandering. But they do worry about a primary challenge — and Trump remains very popular among Republican primary voters.Sharp, of course, didnt focus on how to use institutional structures, because dictatorships, by definition, dont have them. He wrote about how to work outside institutions by building mass social movements.Is that relevant to the United States today? Unlike most of Sharps eager readers abroad, Americans have plenty of established avenues for citizens to take power. We just dont use them.Americans dont do activism. We dont even vote (turnout was 61.4 percent in 2016). Eric Liu, author of Youre More Powerful Than You Think, makes the point that theres no such thing as not voting. If you dont bother, you are handing your power over to someone else — most likely wealthy, white and older people, who reliably turn out.The challenge for any movement in the United States is to get people involved. And one way to do that is to build social movements.Activism begets activism. Ask who got involved and started a group through the Womens March, said Paul Engler, who with his brother, Mark, wrote This Is an Uprising.A huge portion of activists will raise their hands, Engler said. Most people arent activated by phone calling. But protests generate more and more energy.People wont march every week, however. Nor should they. Marches should be saved for extraordinary circumstances. Unfortunately, we may be facing one soon: the slow-motion assault by Trump and his allies on the Robert Mueller investigation — a Saturday Night Massacre by drip poisoning.MoveOn.org (together with other groups) is asking people to sign a pledge to march if Trump fires Mueller, replaces Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, or does something else that disables the investigation. Its smart to pre-organize times and routes, and to warn the administration there will be mass resistance — although the vast majority of people who will march are unlikely to sign up in advance.A social movement demonstrates commitment and numbers, adding power to the insider strategy. It can produce momentum — or the illusion of it — keeping the resistance and its issues in the news. Perhaps most important, it builds habits of participation.The opposition has recently shifted to focus on the midterm elections, said Jamila Raqib, Sharps closest colleague and the executive director of the Albert Einstein Institute. My reading of Genes work is that this is perhaps a missed opportunity — the wrong use of this unique moments energy. A lot of people are recognizing they have a role to play in our democracy. This is an opportunity for us all to figure out what that role is to get through this crisis — and the next one.That requires more than the sporadic march. Fortunately, Sharp has 196 other ideas.Diversify and decentralize.People get involved, and stay involved, if they feel useful, competent and valued.Otpor in Serbia recognized this. The groups leadership decided that people could do anything and call themselves Otpor if they followed two rules. If you were anti-Milosevic and nonviolent, you could go naked with Otpor painted on your chest, said Milja Jovanovic, an Otpor founder.Mark Engler said that Act Up, formerly known as the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, used this strategy well: They had a lot of little working groups, which enabled them to be creative. Its activists draped a giant condom over the house of their nemesis, Senator Jesse Helms. They chained themselves to the New York Stock Exchange to protest the high price of the AIDS drug AZT. Act Up was always doing something — usually something outrageous and highly photogenic.That had a huge role in elevating public awareness about AIDS and keeping it in the public eye and forcing politicians who didnt want to touch the issue to respond, Engler said.Act locally. Trump is such an attention magnet, said Wikler of MoveOn.org. Hes drawn a lot of focus and fear and anxiety toward Washington. But theres an extraordinary wave of activism across the country. Wiklers recommendation — the recommendation of everyone I spoke to — was for people to get involved in whatever they cared about. Raise money for the local library or bail fund. Speak out for MeToo or Black Lives Matter. Form a reading group or a walking group.Effective political action isnt innate. You have to learn it — and it starts with connecting with your neighbors. Movements that have been successful paid attention to that institution building and capacity building, said Raqib. In our context, its how do we move people from this sense of apathy or helplessness.Sharps fundamental takeaway, Wikler said, is that people power can overcome what seems like intractable odds. He added: Not that it always happens — but it can happen and does happen. In the moment when political power is almost entirely concentrated in hands of people willing to do things that seem ghastly to the majority of Americans, a reminder that public mobilization has overcome even greater odds is a light in the darkness.Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book The Haunted Land: Facing Europes Ghosts After Communism. She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World and the World War II spy story e-book D for Deception. She is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.To receive email alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementBy TEJAL RAOFEB. 5, 2018
When Edward Lee was growing up in Brooklyn, his grandmother fermented traditional Korean foods at home to stock the pantry, making her own gochujang and doenjang, along with several kinds of kimchi and rice vinegars.Mr. Lee now makes his own vinegars at 610 Magnolia, his restaurant in Louisville, Ky., using whole raw persimmons, peaches and fennel. Like many cooks who value the complex and sometimes unpredictable flavors of these homemade fermentations, Mr. Lee reaches for vinegar as an editing tool, using it to brighten and filter his dishes in delicate ways, boosting sauces and buoying broths.He adds a glug of mushroom vinegar to a dish of smoked mushrooms with potato purée, just before its served. He brushes fruity vinegar all over rib-eye steaks and pork, after the meat has been browned and finished with butter.I use vinegar in everything, Mr. Lee said. Not just vinaigrettes. The magic, transformative power of vinegar isnt in vinaigrettes.AdvertisementThe Food and Drug Administration requires that what is labeled vinegar contain four or more grams of acetic acid per 100 milliliters. That acid, produced when certain bacteria metabolize alcohol, is what broadly defines vinegar and its flavor — the sharpness on your tongue, the prickling in your nostrils.But vinegar enthusiasts, including a growing group of chefs and home cooks across the country, have a far more nuanced understanding. And what Mr. Lee makes is only distantly related to the harsh, distilled vinegars used for household tasks, or diluted for basic brines.The word comes from the French vin aigre, or sour wine, but great vinegars can be made from the slow, controlled fermentations of many different fruits, vegetables, grains and syrups. They can be cloudy or clear, mouth-puckering or sweet, fruity or gamy, with endless variations.A great vinegar has all the characteristics of the initial product — thats the most important thing, said Harry Rosenblum, the author of the 2017 book Vinegar Revival and a founder of the Brooklyn Kitchen, a cooking school with two locations in New York.Mr. Rosenblum sees the uptick of interest in quality vinegar as a part of the home-brewing and fermentation movements — an ingredient with history, and roots all over the world, that also welcomes creativity.AdvertisementMaking your own vinegar isnt foolproof, but part of its appeal is that it requires little in the way of an initial investment, and few tools. (Though serious vinegar-makers may rely on pH meters and other gadgets, a wide-mouthed jar and a piece of cheesecloth are all you really need to get started.)Vinegar, the result of acetic fermentation, simply requires oxygen, bacteria and alcohol. You can start the process with ready-made alcohol — a bottle of wine, sake or cider — or create your own alcohol by fermenting fresh peaches or coconut water. From there, the microbes get to work, turning the alcohol into vinegar.Mr. Lee has a space-saving method at his restaurant. He seals fruit with sugar and water in clear plastic bags and stacks these on sheet pans in the walk-in refrigerator. As the fruit rots, the bags puff. But before they burst open, Mr. Lee transfers the contents to finish fermenting in small two- to three-quart jars.He often draws out the process over several months, until the bacteria start to metabolize the acetic acid itself. Now, the vinegar changes, taking on new layers of flavor. Its sharp edges soften. As it ages, it becomes increasingly mellow.For me, good vinegar is something thats alive, Mr. Lee said. It has a good shot of umami; it makes your mouth water.In her Dallas apartment, the chef Misti Norris ferments a jumble of vinegars in glass containers and covered oak barrels, in a dark, temperature-controlled nook equipped with a dehumidifier that keeps the vinegars around 65 degrees. Some will mature for a few months, others a year.I like to work on things that take a long time, said Ms. Norris, who runs the pop-up restaurant Petra and the Beast.When she began making vinegar a few years ago, she was giving bottles away to friends in the restaurant business, but as the taste and demand for great vinegar have increased, so has Ms. Norriss production. She plans to sell her vinegars later this year, including some made from local mustang grapes, passion fruit, peony flowers and figs, as well as collaborations with local brewers, made from sour beers and fruit-infused saisons.Jori Jayne Emde, who runs Lady Jaynes Alchemy in Chatham, N.Y., lets her vinegars ferment slowly, over many months, in an open-air barn. Come winter, she steps away, letting the steel containers freeze where they stand. When the weather warms, she says, the vinegars thaw out and pick up where they left off.AdvertisementMs. Emde owns Fish & Game with her husband, the chef Zak Pelaccio, and was drawn to vinegar-making in part as a way to avoid food waste. All the things that might get put in the trash or composted, I mix with wine and ferment, she said, I call it whole utilization.She collects food scraps and leftover wine dregs, transforming the miscellany into an array of vinegars, from carrot and tomato to sour cherry and brown bread. The kitchen at Fish & Game uses these bottles, and never fresh citrus, to tinker with the acidity in their dishes, seasoning it on snails roasted with absinthe and garlicky herb butter, or using it to dress winter greens.Ms. Emde works with six-gallon steel drums full of pith, seeds, stems, tops, peels and cores fermenting in a base of wine. She lets the vinegars sour naturally, without a starter, and develop acetic acid over time. But since her production is outdoors, she occasionally takes the spent yeast from previous batches and splashes it around the barn. She says it ensures that the microbes she values, the ones she wants in the vinegars, are thriving nearby.Many vinegar-makers will speed up the process slightly with a mother — a jellylike disk of acetobacteria and cellulose that may form naturally on the top of a vinegar as it ferments, or can be bought online.In his book On Food and Cooking, the science writer Harold McGee calls vinegar alcohols fate, neatly summing up both its process and history, which goes back as far as the making of wine, beer and mead.The earliest vinegars were likely produced in the Middle East, somewhere along the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers. Before refrigeration, there was simply no way to put the brakes on the fermentation process: Ripe fruit produced alcohol, then charged ahead in warm climates, turning to vinegar.Michael Harlan Turkell, a writer and photographer who makes honey vinegars in his Brooklyn backyard, traveled the world researching the ingredient for his 2017 cookbook, Acid Trip.AdvertisementVinegar probably wasnt a culinary ingredient until around 1500 B.C., he said. Around that time, it was used not only as a preservative but also as a flavoring agent, poured over noodles in China, and forming the base of dipping sauces.Once vinegar made the leap, it persisted. Like alcohol, vinegar was refined all over the world in different ways, shaping cuisines as both a preservative and a flavoring. Where nipa palms and coconuts grew, vinegar could be made from sap and water. Where rice and sugar cane grew, it could be made from sake and juice.In Paris, Mr. Turkell met the French chef Bertrand Auboyneau, who used a generous amount of rich, tannic red wine vinegar to brighten oeufs en meurette, the bistro dish of poached eggs in a red-wine sauce. And at a cooking school in Tokyo, the Japanese instructor Naoyuki Yanagihara taught him to make sumiso, the yolk-rich sauce seasoned with rice vinegar and white miso.Ms. Norris, the Dallas chef, emulsifies her vinegar made from foraged Texan grapes into melted butter and uses it like a sauce to dress pasta. The more rounded, fruity vinegars end up in her desserts, like a mustang grape and white chocolate tart, made with sunflower and passion fruit seeds.I think that balance of salt, acid and fat is what makes people want to eat, Ms. Norris said. Vinegars can add such subtle nuances, and so much character.Mashama Bailey, the chef and owner of the Grey, in Savannah, Ga., compared her use of sherry vinegar and white balsamic to a little squeeze of lemon, brightening everything up just before its served. The better the vinegar, she said, the fewer other ingredients, and less cooking the dish needs to shine.When you have a really beautiful aged balsamic, you drizzle a little on a piece of cheese, said Ms. Bailey, and it becomes the star.When vinegar makers get talking, they sound a little like wine lovers. They refer to the expression of the fruit, the structure of the flavors, the complexity of aromas in the nose.AdvertisementWere going from rotten fruit to this beautiful, flavorful, elegant acidic thing that you can drink, Mr. Lee said. After a decade of making vinegar from scratch, he added, the process remains somewhat mysterious to him. Things are so scientific, and so standardized in the kitchen. Weve figured it all out. But not vinegar!About 20 percent of the time, the vinegar doesnt work out, he said. A spore mold finds its way into the jar, ruining the entire batch. Or the liquid becomes too rich in ammonia or somewhat rancid-tasting, or everything turns the bad kind of moldy.His cooks find vinegars lack of certainty irritating, but for Mr. Lee, it only underscores his affection.Every time I make a vinegar and it works out, its like a minor miracle, he said. Im over the moon.Recipes: Poached Eggs in Red Wine (Oeufs en Meurette) | Homemade Red Wine VinegarMaking (Bad) Vinegar at Home: A Critics Confession, by Eric AsimovFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Sweet Soul of Vinegar.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By EMILY COCHRANEFEB. 4, 2018
WASHINGTON — As part of a monthlong challenge to declutter her digital life, Kristi Kremers vowed she would cut off her online addictions: Instagram, Facebook and the news websites she checks hourly.Her resolve dissolved within days. She checked the Drudge Report, a one-stop shop, she admitted, for all of her news updates. She caved with Facebook, using the network to coordinate birthday plans (When its your birthday, its like the best Facebook day ever, she said). And then she gave in to the allure of her social media feed to keep tabs on the Minnesota Vikings through the N.F.L. playoffs.I was basically set up for failure from the beginning, Ms. Kremers, an employee at the University of Minnesota, said with a laugh. Going completely cold turkey in all of these different realms at once was too much.The challenge through January was issued by Cal Newport, an associate professor of computer science at Georgetown University. Mr. Newport, who runs a blog about managing digital productivity, encouraged his thousands of readers to remove every piece of digital interaction that wasnt critical to their work and lives. At the months end, he instructed, slowly add everything back in.AdvertisementIts like cleaning out your whole house and deciding, O.K., what do I want to put back into the house? Mr. Newport said. His own online weakness, he said, is baseball trading rumors.AdvertisementHe assured his followers that there was no reason to eliminate anything essential: email for work, checking finances, staying in touch with family. Dont get rid of anything that would jeopardize work or family.With Silicon Valley under pressure to address the addictive quality of its innovations, Mr. Newport described his informal experiment as a way for people to control their digital intake, particularly since the 2016 presidential election. It sought to address what he described as a widespread complaint: Theres too much news. I need a break.That is a particularly dominant complaint in Washington, he said, where President Trumps proclivity for one  certain online medium — Twitter — can dictate at least a day of news and reaction.Theres a lot of complexity and uncertainty in the role that these technologies should play in personal and professional life, Mr. Newport said. Were past the stage where theyre novel, but not to the point where theyre stable.He estimated that nearly 2,000 people worldwide said they would participate in his challenge, tailoring their restrictions to match their work demands but hoping to at least limit their daily diet of news and social media.At her university in Boras, Sweden, Elin Hedin, 23, stopped using Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Messenger and Instagram. She also tried to limit the amount of time she browsed websites.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the first week, it felt like a vacation and she slept better. But then, she said, the loneliness kicked in.Ive often felt isolated, and kind of lonely, she wrote in an email. I miss reading about peoples days, seeing what theyre up to on Instagram, reading about their opinions on the latest news, and so on.AdvertisementI guess Im just used to getting that extra bit of socializing, she added.For Anya Mushakevich, a 20-year-old Belarusian studying at the University of Pennsylvania, the lack of online socializing made clear which of her friends abroad would make the effort to stay in touch outside the convenience of Facebook. Who among her circle in Belarus or in Singapore, where she attended high school, would take the time to find her email or phone number?I feel more invested in the time I spend with people. And because we interact less frequently, we have this idea that we want to make the most of the experience, said Ms. Mushakevich, who says she is unlikely to reinstall the Facebook app on her phone. That makes it seem more meaningful than if we had all of the time in the world, like we do on Facebook.Mr. Newport continues to send messages of daily encouragement to readers who participated in his challenge. It made most realize, he said, how dependent they had become on websites and mobile phone apps.Their role in your life has grown without your permission, he said. No one had that in mind when they signed up for Facebook to stay in touch with their college roommate.A majority of the people who reported back to Mr. Newport with their results in unplugging noted that they had picked up new hobbies: painting, exercise, the opportunity to write a book. They said they also imposed strict guidelines to keep themselves from slipping: Keep the phone charger in another room. Ask the people texting to instead please call. Stop the reflex click to a favorite sports website instead of focusing on work.Ms. Kremers, who gave up early in the challenge, says she plans to try again later in the year, with a better understanding of how easy it is to slip into old habits.I think its a beautiful idea, really, she said. It demands a new form of resilience from us.A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Answering Call to Limit Daily Digital Diet in a World That Gorges on Social Media.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NICOLE PHILLIPFEB. 2, 2018
Lindsey Underwood, the editor of The Edit, a newsletter written for college students and recent grads, answered questions on Facebook Live about the process of applying to be a contributor. The deadline to apply is Feb. 2.The Reader Center is one way we in the newsroom are trying to connect with you, by highlighting your perspectives and experiences and offering insight into how we work. Calling all young writers: The New York Times wants your help. The Edit, a newsletter created specifically for college students and recent graduates, is looking for five contributors.The Times has already received thousands of submissions, but its not too late to apply. The deadline has been extended to Feb. 2. Lindsey Underwood, the editor of The Edit, explained the application process in a Facebook Live video this week.Watch her conversation with live viewers in the video above, and read more about how to apply.Follow the Reader Center on Twitter: @ReaderCenter.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 20, 2018
Queens has taken its place alongside cities like Paris, Venice, Hong Kong and San Francisco in the 111 Places series of global travel books, crammed with insider tips. About a third of the one-page recommendations will direct you to something to eat in New Yorks most ethnically diverse borough. The book reveals watering holes like the Anable Basin Sailing Bar & Grill in Long Island City, sources for Romanian charcuterie in Astoria, the story behind Spaghetti Park in Corona and even advice on the Malaysian hawker food menu at Curry Leaves in Flushing: 111 Places in Queens That You Must Not Miss by Joe DiStefano (Emons, $19.90).Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Guide: Savoring a Borough, In All Its Deliciousness.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By FLORENCE FABRICANTFEB. 20, 2018
Hamantaschen, the triangular pastries for Purim (which starts next Wednesday), are usually filled with prune, apricot or poppy seeds. This year, they are getting the chocolate treatment at By the Way Bakery, a small chain that makes gluten-free, dairy-free pastries, cakes and breads. By the Ways hamantaschen have a creamy dark chocolate center enclosed in rich chocolate pastry. Theyre available, along with the traditional jam-filled pastries, now through March 4 for pick up at the shops: Chocolate hamantaschen, $3 each, $15 for a bag of six, By the Way Bakery with locations on the Upper East and Upper West Sides of Manhattan, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Greenwich, Conn., btwbakery.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Celebrate: For a Purim Pastry, A Twist of Chocolate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Wordplay By                     
 DEB AMLEN
 
JAN. 28, 2018
SPECIAL POST — Mac Knight, a daily commenter on Wordplay and friend, died Jan. 28 after a 10 year battle with multiple myeloma. He was 65.A retired fire battalion chief who lived in Washington State, Mac loved his wife, Merrilee, his sons, Micheal, Matthew and Martin, his grandchildren, reading, crosswords, photography and probably much more, knowing him.We got to know each other a bit through Facebook, and I truly admired his love for his family, his intellectual curiosity and his supportiveness.Throughout his illness, he made every effort to post a daily positive thought on Wordplay, and he will be missed.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 30, 2018
To celebrate the Lunar New Year, Hakkasan restaurant has enlisted Jay McInerney, the author of Bright Lights, Big City, to create cynical fortunes. If at first you dont succeed try Botox will not make your day. The Year of the Dog, indeed. Theyre inserted in very New York-style cookies, black-and-white macarons, and those who dine during February at the restaurant will receive one: Hakkasan, 311 West 43rd Street (Eighth Avenue), 212-776-1818, hakkasan.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Amuse: Fortune Cookies Suited To Satisfy Cynical Tastes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byFront BurnerBy Florence FabricantBlackbarn — the sprawling home goods store, cafe and bar in Chelsea Market, which is affiliated with Black Barn restaurant in NoMad — has a new line of packaged foods. They are created by its chef, John Doherty, who founded the company with Mark Zeff, an interior designer. Kristen Zeff, Mr. Zeffs wife, is also a partner. Highlights include preserves, notably a honeylike craft beer version ($14.95); white chocolate-and-matcha hot chocolate mix ($17); intense black-truffle paste ($55); truffle-and-Parmesan sauce ($13.90); and 72 percent dark chocolate bars ($9.85): Blackbarn Foods for the Home, 75 Ninth Avenue (15th Street), 212-620-3110, blackbarnshop.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Advertisement
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 20, 2018
Bourekas are filled Middle Eastern pastries, usually savory, and popular in Israel, Turkey and elsewhere. Often shaped as triangles, they can also be oblong. At Yotel, theyre now featured to go at the Espresso Bar and are served in the Green Fig restaurant, both on the fourth floor. Sami Boztepe, Green Figs new pastry chef and a native of Turkey who lived in Israel, is fashioning shatteringly flaky long bourekas. Think ministrudels filled with potato, mushroom, cheese, or spinach and cheese. Serve them as is or slice them to accompany drinks: Bourekas, $4.95 each, Green Fig, fourth floor, 570 10th Avenue (42nd Street), 646-449-7790, greenfignyc.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Share: A New Kind of Treat, Stuffed and Flaky.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 12, 2018
For the past two years, Icelandic Provisions has been making skyr, a thick, custardy fermented milk similar to yogurt, in upstate New York. For its ninth flavor, the company asked the chef Gunnar Gislason, who has been advising the company, to devise a flavor. Mr. Gislason, who owns a restaurant in Reykjavik and is also the executive chef of Agern in Grand Central Terminal, dipped into his childhood and the Icelandic countryside for an elegant mauve-colored cherry-black currant skyr. Icelandic Provisionss skyr, which is made with cultures from Iceland, is creamier and not as tart as what he grew up eating, he said. Skyr like this is an amazing development, he said: Skyr Cherry-Black Currant, $1.75 to $1.99 for 5.3 ounces, icelandicprovisions.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Dollop: An Icelandic Chef Adds Flavor to the Mix.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 12, 2018
Nothing as obvious as a pumpkin-turned-coach inhabits the pages of this whimsical book of drawings. Gretchen Röehrs, whose drawings have appeared in The New York Times, illustrates a wardrobe of produce. The outfits and accessories, like chanterelle miniskirts, lettuce-leaf ball gowns, fennel fringes, fiddle-leaf earrings and yes, that banana jumpsuit (do not try this at home) are as chic as a spread in Vogue. Theyre all arranged according to color in seven chapters: Edible Ensembles: A Fashion Feast for the Eyes From Banana Peel Jumpsuits to Kale Frocks by Gretchen Röehrs (Rizzoli, $24.95).Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Amuse: Fruits and Vegetables Dressed to the Nines.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
FEB. 2, 2018
Updated 8:13 a.m.Good Friday morning. Bundle up: It will get cold.Its Super Bowl weekend: The Philadelphia Eagles face the New England Patriots in Minneapolis on Sunday.New York is sandwiched between Philadelphia and New England, the teams home turfs, so as a city we may be feeling split in our loyalties.Whether you are serving Philly cheesesteak or Boston cream pie, here is some New York football trivia, lest we be forgotten. There will be New Yorkers on the field.Eagles safety Corey Graham and defensive end Steven Means are from Buffalo. (Mr. Graham, along with the teams star safety, Malcolm Jenkins of New Jersey, has already won a Super Bowl.)AdvertisementThe Patriots star tight end, Rob Gronkowski, is from Amherst, N.Y., running back Dion Lewis is from Albany and safety Devin McCourty was born in Nyack.AdvertisementRoughly 40 of the 300 athletes in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio, played for New York teams — not only the Jets and the Giants, but also the now-defunct Staten Island Stapletons, the New York Yankees, the New York Bulldogs, the New York Titans (now known as the Jets) and the Brooklyn Dodgers.We were there  first.Both current New York teams, the Jets and the Giants, won the Super Bowl before the Eagles and the Patriots. The Jets win was in 1969; the Giants first, in 1987. (The Eagles have yet to win in the Super Bowl era.)Also on the list of Giants victories: two Super Bowl wins against the Patriots. The first time, in 2008, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City and Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston placed a bet on the outcome. After New York prevailed, Mr. Menino sent 100 cups of New England clam chowder, 144 Boston cream pies, and other local delicacies to Mr. Bloomberg. (The food was donated to charity.)And the last time the Patriots lost the Super Bowl, it was also to the Giants.Whens the game?The indoor game starts at 6:30 p.m. Eastern time on Sunday on NBC.Heres what else is happening:Spring will come early, the groundhog declared. But not today.A cool gray morning turns into a bright but bitterly cold afternoon, with temperatures falling through the 20s and a lunchtime windchill around 15.Freezing cold tonight, clear and chilly again on Saturday, then clouds roll in on Sunday. They may rain on your Super Bowl party.• The Hempstead school district, which has been plagued with corruption and infighting at the students expense, now faces a deadline for change. [New York Times]• A Shinnecock Indian is set to argue that fishing for a valuable eel in a section of Long Island is his tribal right, despite state regulations. [New York Times]Advertisement• Mayor Bill de Blasio called for a spending increase after his first term saw growth in tax revenue and economic expansion, unveiling an $88.7 billion budget. [New York Times]• The federal government is preparing to dock the state $14 million for the I ♥ New York signs installed on highways by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, calling them distracting to drivers. [New York Times]• The state of Connecticut warned that weekend train service on three branches of the New Haven Line could be eliminated as a result of the states $3.5 billion deficit. [New York Times]• E.M.T.s who responded to an episode involving a mentally ill woman who was fatally shot by the police in the Bronx are offering a different account of what happened. [New York Times]• Balanchines ballet Square Dance returned to New York and will be performed at Lincoln Center. [New York Times]• A couple that needed to escape the space constraints of living in New York City found a new home with a skyline view in Jersey City. [New York Times]• The Jewish Museum on Fifth Avenue is adding a fresh take on its collection by focusing on visual art, not just history. [New York Times]Advertisement• Two high-ranking editors of The Daily News, Rob Moore, the executive editor, and Alexander (Doc) Jones, the Sunday editor, were fired after an investigation into allegations of sexual harassment. [New York Post]• The John Jay College of Criminal Justice has created an online database archiving slaves in New York and those who owned them. [WNYC]• The Empire State Building is looking to fill over 50,000 square feet of retail space. [Bloomberg News]• Todays Metropolitan Diary: Special Sister Time• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Groundhog Date, an improv comedy show about dating, at the Peoples Improv Theater in Flatiron. 6 p.m. [$8]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Join the director Jorge Thielen Armand for a screening of La Soledad, his film about turmoil in Venezuela, at Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens. 7 p.m. [$15]• Obama Daughters: Requiem for America, a comedy show about Sasha and Malia saving our country, at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Hells Kitchen. 7:30 p.m. [$12]• Ace Frehley of the rock band Kiss performs at St. George Theater on Staten Island. 8 p.m. [Tickets start at $29]• Nets host Lakers, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks at Bucks, 8 p.m. (MSG).• Watch The New York Times Close Up, featuring The Timess Daniel J. Wakin and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV.Advertisement• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday• An introduction to podcasting workshop and a social media crash course at Q.E.D. in Astoria, Queens. Noon. [Prices vary]• A Celebration of the Blues, a Black History Month exhibition by the citys Parks Department, opens with a reception at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 1 p.m. [Free]• Figure Skating in Harlem hosts Soul on Ice, a skating party with food, music, raffle prizes and performances, at Lasker Rink in Harlem. 1:30 p.m. [$15, tickets here]• The Richmond Tavernacle Choir performs an acoustic concert at Guyon Tavern in Historic Richmond Town on Staten Island. 6 and 8 p.m. [$16]• Devils host Penguins, 7 p.m. (MSG+2). Islanders host Blue Jackets, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers at Predators, 8 p.m. (MSG).Sunday• New York Road Runners hosts guided morning jogs through parks in Staten Island, the Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn. 9 a.m. [Free]• Rock out to the music of the Beatles during a family-friendly concert at Brooklyn Bowl in Williamsburg. 11:30 a.m. [$12]Advertisement• Winter Carnival continues with performances and activities around the rink at Bryant Park in Midtown. Noon to 10 p.m. [Free admission; $20 skate rentals]• Make intricate Valentines Day cards in a workshop, taught by a local artist, at the Windsor Terrace Brainery in Brooklyn. 2 p.m. [$30]• Nets host Bucks, noon (YES). Knicks host Hawks, noon (MSG).• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Yesterday, we put New York Today readers to the test with HQ Trivia questions about our city.By 5 p.m. on Thursday, we had received more than 8,000 responses. Eighty percent of those did not make it past the first question. And only 65 people — thats less than 1 percent of everyone who responded — answered every question correctly.(Congratulations to you 65. A+.)Here are the correct responses:• Which designer does NOT have a SoHo storefront? Gucci.• The Heffernan family on The King of Queens lives in what Queens neighborhood? Rego Park.• What is the only Brooklyn neighborhood mentioned in Jay-Zs Empire State of Mind? Bed-Stuy.• A mausoleum named for what prominent American family can be found in New Dorp, Staten Island? Vanderbilts.• SoHo contains a museum dedicated to which New York organization? Fire department.• Which New York island contains the ruins of a smallpox hospital? Roosevelt Island.Advertisement• What poet wrote Annabel Lee while living in the Bronx? Edgar Allan Poe.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ABBY GOODNOUGHFEB. 19, 2018
MERRIMACK, N.H. — Gwen Hurd got the letter just before her shift at the outlet mall. Her health insurance company informed her that coverage for her family of three, purchased through the Affordable Care Act marketplace, would cost almost 60 percent more this year — $1,200 a month.She and her husband, a contractor, found a less expensive plan, but at $928 a month, it meant giving up date nights and saving for their future. Worse, the new policy required them to spend more than $6,000 per person before it covered much of anything.It seems to me that people who earn nothing and contribute nothing get everything for free, said Ms. Hurd, 30. And the people who work hard and struggle for every penny barely end up surviving.A few miles away in another wooded suburb, Emilia DiCola, 28, an aspiring opera singer who scrapes by with gigs at churches and in local theaters, has no such complaints. She qualifies for Medicaid — free government health insurance that millions more low-income Americans have gained through an expansion of the program under the Affordable Care Act.AdvertisementI am very lucky to have the coverage I have, said Ms. DiCola, who lives with her parents along the Merrimack River in Litchfield.AdvertisementPresident Trumps attempts to undermine the health law have exacerbated a tension at the heart of it — while it aims to provide health coverage for all, the law is far more generous to the poor and near poor than the middle class. By taking steps that hurt the individual insurance market, Mr. Trump has widened the gulf between people who pay full price for their coverage and those who get generous subsidies or free Medicaid. That, in turn, has deepened the resentment that has long simmered among many who do not qualify for government assistance toward those who do.Such attitudes have helped shift white working-class voters to the right and were integral in the election of President Trump. They underlie the sharp cuts to social welfare programs in the budget proposal he released this week. They help explain why the national debate over health insurance has been so bitter, and why the only government programs with broad support are those that everyone benefits from, Social Security and Medicare.They are also likely helping fuel the renewed Democratic push for a single-payer system, or at least one that provides broader access to government health insurance.Democrats have begun to recognize the political costs of playing into the narrative that they only care about the poor, said Joan C. Williams, a professor at the University of California Hastings College of Law and author of a recent book, White Working Class: Overcoming Class Cluelessness in America.Many Republican states plan to start requiring many Medicaid recipients to work, volunteer or take job-training classes. Along the same theme, Mr. Trumps new budget proposal would make it harder for the so-called able-bodied poor who dont work to receive food stamps and public housing.Such proposals reflect a very American view — that only those who are severely disabled or struck by tragedy deserve government assistance, and that anyone else who gets it is shirking, said Mark Rank, a professor of social work at Washington University in St. Louis.Our social safety net is, in general, the weakest of any of the Western industrialized countries because we have these kinds of views, Mr. Rank said.AdvertisementThe Affordable Care Act was supposed to help, and did, but not for those who earn too much to get financial assistance but are still on a tight budget. About 25,000 New Hampshire residents paid full freight for Obamacare plans last year, according to a legislative report, and their premiums increased by an average 52 percent this year. This group earns more than four times the poverty level — for a family of three, like the Hurds, thats about $82,000 a year.Another 29,000 were getting subsidized coverage through the Affordable Care Act marketplace, and many of them have seen their out-of-pocket costs drop this year. That is because when Mr. Trump forced premiums higher by cutting off a type of payment to insurers last fall that the law had guaranteed them, subsidies rose, too. About 53,000 are getting free Medicaid coverage through the health laws optional expansion of the program.Ms. Hurd remembers watching a documentary about people signing up for Obamacare coverage last year and bristling when someone who got a big subsidy gushed about the low price.I was like, Its not expensive for you because everybody else is paying for it, she said.She also has problems with the Medicaid expansion population, made up of working-age adults who have no disability — particularly those who arent working as hard as she and her husband are. Cut off from the help Obamacare provided to everyone under a certain income level, as well as the contributions that employers make toward their employees health coverage, she was caught in what she saw as an unduly penalized subset.Im totally happy to pay my fair share, she said, but Im also paying someone elses share, and thats what makes me insane.Ms. Hurd finished college at the University of Massachusetts, with her parents paying for it, and has a masters degree in communications, which she got tuition-free while working in admissions at Southern New Hampshire University. Shes been working about 30 hours a week at the outlet mall and a small remodeling firm while looking for a job with good benefits in communications or marketing.Her husband, Matt, started his contracting business a few years ago and is finishing his undergraduate degree with the help of a loan. They bought a 1750s farmhouse just before they married; Ms. Hurd returned to work when their son, Harry, was eight weeks old.AdvertisementThough roughly the same age, Ms. DiCola has followed a different course. She dropped out of the Manhattan School of Music in 2009 after her freshman year because she couldnt keep up with the tuition. Now, to supplement the scant income she gets from singing gigs, she drives for Uber and Lyft a few nights a week, sometimes more, in Boston. She earned about $15,000 last year, making sure she stayed under the threshold to qualify for Medicaid.I feel like its no different from what corporations do all the time, taking advantage of tax breaks and that sort of thing, Ms. DiCola, a soprano who talks animatedly about Verdi and Puccini, said of being on Medicaid. Frankly, if theyre allowed to do it, why shouldnt I?Medical care has been easy to access on Medicaid. She got physical therapy for an old injury, and when she needed to have an IUD surgically removed last year, she went to Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, the states most prestigious hospital. She paid for none of it. She spends most of her income on paying off her car, a used 2012 Prius with 160,000 miles on it, and her last outstanding student loan.The coverage is actually really good, she said. Im just kind of finding my way, so the health insurance is so helpful.For Ms. Hurd, health care has been something to avoid since she and her husband got the marketplace plan shortly after Harrys birth last year. (Before that, she had a job with benefits but quit because of her difficult pregnancy.) She went to an urgent care clinic for a throat culture last fall because unlike at her primary care practice, she could find out the cost, $150, upfront. And when Harry was up all night sobbing with a fever recently, she hesitated briefly before seeking medical help, again at urgent care.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Thats ugly, she said. I hate that I, even for a moment, considered waiting it out to save money.News stories in New Hampshire have stoked the resentment Ms. Hurd and others facing spiking premiums have felt. Medicaid platinum, silver for the rest, read a recent headline in The Union Leader, New Hampshires largest newspaper. The story was about a report that found Medicaid recipients used health care more aggressively than marketplace customers, presumably because their coverage was free.Instead of giving its new Medicaid recipients traditional coverage through the program, New Hampshire uses Medicaid funds to buy them private plans through the Obamacare marketplace. The report, by an independent actuarial firm, found that average medical costs for the states expansion population were 26 percent higher than for the marketplaces other customers in 2016.The firm found this raised average claim costs — a proxy for premiums — for everyone by 14 percent.AdvertisementOne of the conditions that Gov. Chris Sununu has attached to continuing expanded Medicaid here is that most adult recipients without a disability or small children will have to work, volunteer or get job training, at least 20 hours a week. New Hampshire is among eight Republican-controlled states asking the Trump administration for approval to impose work requirements; two others, Kentucky and Indiana, already got permission last month.Ms. Hurd — who says she thinks work is everything, honestly — is elated about the possibility.If there were actual repercussions aside from your personal self-worth — like Hey, you may not be able to get the pills you need — people might be more inclined to work, she said.But research has found that most Medicaid recipients without disabilities, like Ms. DiCola, already work at least part-time.I know I live with my parents, but Im not going on fancy trips or anything like that — I feel guilty when I buy a new lipstick, she said. She worried when she had the flu in December and lost four days of income, she said, adding, Id like not to feel like Im constantly so close to the edge.Ms. DiCola started driving for Uber and Lyft three years ago, after stints at a Panera and a train station cafe. She often shuttles customers around Boston until after midnight, making up to $25 an hour — enough to pay two or three times more than the $87.50 she owes on her student loan each month, plus buy gas. Her days include pitching in on cooking and other household duties, auditions, rehearsals and studying musical scores on her couch, a cat or two by her side. She hopes to get a college degree, find a more stable career and get access to employer health coverage. But for now, with a free place to live and with Medicaid, she said, Im able to throw all my money at paying off my debt.Ms. Hurd is a former Republican who volunteered for Mitt Romneys campaign in 2012 and voted for Carly Fiorina in the 2016 primary, but now describes her politics as more libertarian. Shes pro-immigration, not least because she sees immigrants as having strong work ethics. She voted for Hillary Clinton in the general election, she said, because she finds President Trump deeply offensive, a guy who bullied his way into power.Her father, a Trump voter from the Boston suburbs, sends her articles that are critical of the health law, and they resonate with her.AdvertisementEven members of her own family take advantage of a flawed system, in her view, by getting Medicaid. They dont work because they dont want to, and they get free health insurance. She said. What the heck? If my husband and I, who grew up with relatively middle-class backgrounds in wealthy states, know people that mooch off the system in our immediate families, imagine what its like elsewhere.Ms. DiColas father, a solo-practice lawyer, is also a Trump supporter, but she is a liberal Democrat and uneasily aware of the anger and frustration that unsubsidized Obamacare customers are feeling — so much so that at first, she worried about sharing her story with The New York Times and being dragged through the mud on some 24-hour news channel for being on Medicaid.She described her states plan to impose work requirements on Medicaid recipients as poor-shaming. Her friends show more empathy, she said. When she needed a root canal and crown last year and Medicaid would not have paid for it (dental care is one area that Medicaid does not cover comprehensively, or sometimes at all), she posted about it on Facebook and her friends jumped in to help.Ms. DiCola doesnt expect to need much health care this year — just a physical and a new pair of glasses, which Medicaid will cover, she said. Still, she added, You never know what could come up — my appendix could decide to burst tomorrow. In which case, Medicaid would cover the emergency room visit, surgery and hospital stay, a huge relief to Ms. DiCola, who became so anxious as Republicans in Congress tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act last summer that she felt physically ill.Ms. Hurd has had no such peace of mind. A burst appendix would likely cost at least her individual deductible of $6,300.By late January, Ms. Hurd had begun to believe that the only way for her family to have any access to health care was to drop their insurance and save the $928 a month to spend on care when they need it. Harrys recent illness had rattled her, and Matt wanted to see a chiropractor for back pain that was threatening his ability to work.We cant afford to both treat his back issues and pay for insurance, she said one morning. She was crying, and it was time to go to work.The following week, after months of searching, Ms. Hurd got offered a full-time job with benefits, running social-media marketing for a company that sells plant nutrition products. The Hurds plan on dropping their Obamacare policy in April, when her new coverage, with a $300 monthly premium, should kick in. The deductible — $3,000 per person, up to $6,000 for the family — will still be higher than shed like, but she didnt complain. Her indignation seemed to be softening.I understand that some people cannot afford health care and shouldnt just be left to suffer, she said. But there has to be a better way than asking a very small amount of people to foot that bill.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Heartburn Behind Free Care for Only Some.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Margaret RenklNASHVILLE — In 1978, the city of Nashville leased 18 acres of a Civil War monument to a local businessman who wanted to start a new baseball franchise — the Nashville Sounds, then a Double A expansion team for the Southern League — and needed a place for his team to play. It was a ludicrous arrangement from the start: a privately owned ball field built on public land.And not just any public land. Greer Stadium was built at the base of St. Cloud Hill, where the Union Army erected a stronghold after taking control of the city in 1862. Fort Negley was an investment designed to protect the Unions hold on Nashville and its strategic access to roads, railroad lines and the Cumberland River.Fort Negley Park is not a Civil War monument in the South that celebrates the heroism of the Confederacy, in other words. Fort Negley Park is a Civil War monument in the South that celebrates the preservation of the United States of America. The question of what will happen to it has roiled Nashville for more than a year.In part, thats because its a crucial site for African-American history as well. During the war, the grounds surrounding Fort Negley served as a de facto refugee camp for escaped slaves. In an irony lost on no one today, the Union Army immediately forced those refugees into service; under brutal conditions, some 2,700 of them built Fort Negley itself. Many lost their lives and are believed to be buried at Fort Negley Park. When the South surrendered, the survivors — joined by other freed slaves — settled there. Today the area is gentrifying, home to new art galleries and coffee shops, but it is still populated largely by low-income African-Americans.In their midst now lies one badly overgrown and dilapidated minor-league ball field. Greer Stadium has sat empty since the Nashville Sounds departed at the end of the 2014 season. As part of a preserved Civil War site, the stadiums location has long been designated as public parkland, going back to 1928, when the city bought it from the descendants of John Overton, a longtime crony of President Andrew Jackson. That parcel was always meant to revert to parkland once the Sounds decamped.The actual fort at Fort Negley Park was dismantled after the Union Army withdrew in 1867, but history set its hand on the site a second time during the Depression, when a facsimile of the fort was rebuilt there by 800 laborers funded by the Works Progress Administration. That reproduction ultimately fell into ruin and for decades was closed to the public, but 1996 brought a plan to restore the site again. Fort Negley reopened in 2004, on the 140th anniversary of the Battle of Nashville. The next year it was designated a National Historic Landmark District.Three years after the Sounds left, Mayor Megan Barry released a request for proposals related to the site of the old stadium. The request was not for Metro Parks to create a plan for desperately needed green space in an already overpaved urban core. The request was not for the Metro Historical Commission to create a plan to preserve the legacy of African-Americans who gave their lives to preserve the Union. It was not a request for the Friends of Fort Negley, an advocacy group, to create a plan to expand the educational reach of the site.The plans the mayor requested were for private development under a land-lease arrangement much like the one that allowed Greer Stadium to be built there in the first place.Lets call what happened next the second Battle of Nashville.For years this city has been undergoing rapid, unchecked growth, and it desperately needs affordable housing and subsidized work spaces for artists and innovators. That much everyone agrees on. When the mayors office approved a plan by the Cloud Hill partnership, headed by the developer Bert Mathews and the music producer T Bone Burnett, for a mixed-use private development that would include music and art studios, retail space and housing at three price points — affordable, work force and market rate — it made a kind of sense.But an army of green-space advocates and historic preservationists quickly mobilized to point out what would seem to be obvious: Nashville owns a lot of land, and there is no good reason to allow for-profit development in a park with huge historic significance.For an entire year, Betsy Phillips, a local historian, published article after article in The Nashville Scene, looking at every possible angle for understanding the importance of Fort Negley, particularly its significance to African-American history. The bottom line, she wrote in December, is that we preserve historic sites for future generations because we dont know what the future might need from the past.The best-selling historical novelist Robert Hicks, an advocate for preserving Civil War historic sites, entered the fray. A Nashville council member sued Metro government, arguing that the mayors office didnt follow city rules in granting the development contract. The country music legend Kix Brooks took to Facebook to plead for preserving the integrity of the park. Historic Nashville Inc., a nonprofit that each year releases a list of the nine most endangered historical sites in the city, took the unprecedented step in 2017 of naming only one: Fort Negley.The Friends of Fort Negley, led by the historian Clay Bailey, took a multipronged approach to raising the sites national profile. It petitioned the Tennessee Historical Commission to designate Fort Negley Park a historical memorial, a label that under state law means a site cannot be altered without a waiver from the commission itself. With help from Nashvilles N.A.A.C.P. chapter, it submitted a proposal for Fort Negley to be included in Unescos slave route registry — the first United States site to be nominated for this international recognition.The group produced a website and a video summarizing the issues for a public that was finally tuning in: In its annual Open Season on Open Spaces report, the Cultural Landscape Foundation in Washington recognized Fort Negley as one of 13 nationally significant landscapes in need of protection.And all this was happening against the backdrop of a national debate about Civil War monuments. Defenders of monuments to Robert E. Lee and Nathan Bedford Forrest, the Confederate generals most often at the heart of these contentions, are fond of pointing out that such statues werent erected to celebrate the institution of slavery; they were erected to celebrate Southern history. The anti-monument contingent rolls its eyes at this argument: If not for antislavery sentiment in the North, the South would never have seceded.Its important to note that Southern attitudes to Civil War monuments are not uniform, though the pro-con divide typically follows the rural-urban divide.In 2015, Nashvilles Metro Council voted to petition the Tennessee Department of Transportation to plant obscuring vegetation in front of a truly hideous statue of Nathan Bedford Forrest on I-65. The giant statue is visible from the highway to anyone entering the city from the south, but it stands on private land, and for that reason the department declined to intervene. Never mind that the T.D.O.T. itself removed the obscuring vegetation back in 1998, when the statue was first erected.Last month activists took matters into their own hands and painted the statue pussy-hat pink.The Tennessee Heritage Protection Act was passed in 2013 and updated in 2016 with what seemed to be an express intent to prevent municipalities in Tennessee from taking down Confederate memorials. (Yes, this is the same act currently being invoked to protect Fort Negley.) Last month city leaders in Memphis found a novel way around the states intrusion into municipal decisions: They sold two city parks to a nonprofit. Within hours of the sale, statues of Nathan Bedford Forrest and Jefferson Davis had been removed.On Jan. 12, back in Nashville, the development controversy finally came to a close when an archaeological survey commissioned by the city found it highly likely that the former slaves who built Fort Negley are still buried there. Cloud Hill formally withdrew its development proposal, and its not clear what will happen to the Greer parcel now. Nashvilles 2018 parks budget does not include funding for bulldozing Greer Stadium and returning it to parkland, but Mayor Barry recently acknowledged that the presence of slave graves changes the way the old baseball stadium should be approached.The likelihood of graves means that we should reassess plans for this site so as to better honor and preserve the history of the men and women who died in the construction of a fort that helped save the Union, she wrote in a statement. As we move forward, I want to see that whatever happens with the Greer Stadium site will honor that history, while bringing the community together around a shared vision. I have faith in the ability of all stakeholders to work together to identify and coalesce around this vision.Its fair to assume that the supporters of other Civil War monuments around the state of Tennessee will not be coalescing around this vision to preserve a site that celebrates a different kind of history, but the Friends of Fort Negley is moving ahead with plans of its own. Last Thursday it announced that Kix Brooks will serve on a new committee. Its goal: to unite Nashville around a plan — and funding — for a reunified Fort Negley Park.Margaret Renkl is a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementChildren are growing up driving large farm machines to help their families. Thousands are injured every year; many are killed.By JACK HEALYJAN. 29, 2018
OGDENSBURG, Wis. — Cullen Schachtschneider, 6 years old, lay bleeding beside the barn, tangled up in a 4,600-pound farm machine that had ripped his left leg apart.Like children across Americas two million family-run farms, Cullen had grown up around farm equipment, including the yellow loader now covered in his blood. He rode along as his father hauled calves. He watched his grade-school-age brothers drive the diesel-powered loader, carrying corn and doing chores to help keep their familys struggling Wisconsin dairy afloat. The work was woven into their childhood.But one evening last October, as Cullens father was using the loader — called a skid steer — to feed the cows, Cullen clambered aboard, and his foot slipped. The machines hydraulic bucket bit into Cullens left leg and tore it from knee to ankle, ripping off his tissue as easily as someone slipping off a glove.The boys father, Caleb, jumped off the machine and frantically called 911. Two years earlier, Cullens brother Kholer, 8, had driven the steer into his older brother, Maric, sending him to the hospital. Now another child was hurt.AdvertisementIf the family business were medicine or construction, there would be little chance of a kindergartner wielding a scalpel or shingling a roof.AdvertisementBut here and on other family-operated farms, children as young as 5 grow up in the drivers seat of machines many times their size, doing work that is deeply embedded in rural traditions but that also contributes to injuring thousands of children and teenagers every year and killing an estimated  100 more. Researchers say that the true number could be higher, because there are few standards on how to report and tally them all.The toll has stirred a debate among farm safety groups and in rural communities about whether young children should be allowed to tackle such risky jobs. After a string of horrific accidents this year, intense discussions flared up on social media about when — and whether — it was safe to let children work and play around heavy equipment.At a time when industries and some rural residents have rallied behind the Trump administrations push to roll back an array of regulations, the debate over safety standards on family farms raises difficult questions about the line where personal responsibility should end and government oversight should begin.Ive seen too many children killed, said LuAnne Ujazdowski, a counselor at Cullens elementary school in central Wisconsin who has 60 beef cows at her home and calls herself rural to the roots.Farm safety advocates point to a litany of cases that saddle families with guilt and ruinous bills, and yoke their children with years of injury and painful recovery: A 3-year-old in Loyal, Wis., crushed last May by a loader being driven by his 5-year-old brother. A 6-year-old boy in Dowagiac, Mich., run over and killed last July when he fell from the bucket at the front of a skid steer. A 10-year-old boy in Kansas, who had been clearing brush when he was run over by a tractor driven by his 9-year-old sister.Parents in the city would not be allowed to do some of these types of things, said Barbara Lee, director of the National Farm Medicine Center at the Marshfield Clinic in Marshfield, Wis. You see a 4-year-old and a 5-year-old riding on a tractor fender, nobody reports it. They say, Thats farming. But questioning whether a child should be riding in a tractor or playing in the barn is no easy thing in rural communities. Generations of farm children have woken before dawn to feed livestock and do chores that families call a sacrosanct part of life. It is a way of passing on lessons about hard work, responsibility and the pulse of the land that their children will some day take over.AdvertisementWith prices plummeting for wheat, dairy and other products, smaller, struggling farms are also under intense financial pressure, and entire families are pitching in to survive.These kids help, Cullens mother, Amanda Smith, said. They are our hired hands.Where safety advocates see preventable and predictable deaths, other families see tragic accidents that merit prayers and sympathy, not criminal charges or more government regulation.Kids on the farm do operate machinery, one Wisconsin farmer wrote on Facebook, wading into a sea of online comments about the accident that killed the 3-year-old boy. Part of their life.Farm safety groups say that children should be at least 14 to drive tractors and 16 before they take the controls of skid steers or A.T.V.s. But the federal government has largely ceded safety decisions to families, saying that children of any age may work at any time in any job on their parents farms.Rural lawmakers and farm groups revolted when the Obama administration tried to tighten some child labor rules to keep children away from manure pits and block them from driving tractors and other heavy equipment. They pilloried the move as a big-government intrusion that would outlaw children from doing their chores. The proposals — which would have exempted children on their parents farms — were quickly dropped.These days, researchers say, it is even hard to know how many children are getting hurt, and how and where. Some public health groups and universities collect news clippings of farm accidents, but the federal government stopped running its own surveys in 2015.On the Schachtschneider farm, the boys started learning early. Their father, Caleb Schachtschneider, 36, said he taught his two older sons, Maric and Kholer, by letting them sit in his lap as he drove the tractor or skid steer across the farm.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Its like an extension of you, he said. If youre around it, youve got to teach them. They need to know because theyre there. Otherwise, theyd get hurt worse.Running the equipment became second nature to the older boys, their father said. But accidents still happened. Two years ago, when Kholer struck Maric with the skid steer, Maric spent a week in the hospital and came home in a wheelchair, said the boys mother.AdvertisementMs. Smith, 34, said she hated seeing her children drive the yellow machine squatting beside the barn. Sometimes she fantasized about ramming it with her car or maybe selling it off. But she also defended allowing the boys to do work that would otherwise require hiring help the family could not afford. Seeing her children bottle-feed calves and milk full-grown cows was a source of pride. Farmwork taught them how to take care of themselves, she said.If we were to just leave and not let our kids continue to grow up like this, what are they going to have? she asked. What are they going to learn? Just to quit?Ten years ago, Ms. Smith and Mr. Schachtschneider went all in on the farm out on County Road K. They borrowed more than $400,000 for their mortgage, equipment and operating loans. They hung a wooden sign on a kitchen wall: No Farmers, No Future.But they felt as if they could never get ahead of the bills and the market. Wholesale milk prices plunged from more than $20 per 100 pounds in 2014 to barely $15 now. Mr. Schachtschneider said they netted only about $14,000 last year.Mr. Schachtschneider worked at a foundry for two years to help with their budget. Ms. Smith pulled shifts at a bar. But they could not sustain the jobs while raising five sons, ages 4 months to 9 years, and milking a herd of dairy cows twice a day.When Cullen got hurt last October, support and donations poured in. But the ripples from his injury compounded the farms problems, like a crop blight.For a month after the accident, Mr. Schachtschneider stayed with Cullen at Childrens Hospital of Wisconsin, near Milwaukee, about 125 miles from the farm. The family has applied for health insurance for Cullen under a Wisconsin program that covers low-income residents, and Ms. Smith said they do not know yet how much the bills may total.The disruptions and absences have already taken a toll on the farm. A teacher from the boys school stopped by to feed and milk the cows, and relatives pitched in. Still, the farms biweekly milk production fell from an average of 3,600 pounds to 1,900. They sold three cows.AdvertisementIts gotten kind of tough, Mr. Schachtschneider said.When Cullen came home after a month of surgery and skin grafts, he would wake up the family night after night with his screams, and cry when Ms. Smith left his sight. He has to go everywhere with me because hes scared, and I have to protect him, she said.Mr. Schachtschneider said that Cullens accident and his own self-recrimination played on a loop in his head.After months of physical therapy, Cullen can walk again, and the waves of infection and pain have eased for now. The imaginative boy is back to making up his own songs and pretending to be a charging bull, and now brags to medical staff about his progress.But his leg, stripped of layers of protective tissue, will be vulnerable to infection and injury for years to come, Cullens physical therapists and nurse say.Despite all this — the bills, operations, medications and grief — there were still cows to be fed and feed to be hauled. And the children were still going to do the work.As long as Im in the skid steer, I dont care, said Maric, 9, who rakes hay for the cows and dreams of growing up to be a farmer like his father. I have to drive it. I have to put hay in for the cows.One frozen afternoon, as Cullen drifted into a long nap, the older boys pulled on their boots and tramped into the icy, manure-covered lot where the cows feed during the day. Mr. Schachtschneider called out to his oldest: Maric, I need your help. Get like three-quarters of a scoop, O.K.?The boy hopped into the skid steer and drove it across the snow to a spout where ground-up cornstalks and kernels poured out of a silo. He filled the bucket, pulled a lever to swing it high in the air, and spun the machine around, steering it toward the pen of waiting cows.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a Wisconsin city where a child was killed in a farm accident. It is Loyal, Wis., not Royal.A version of this article appears in print on January 29, 2018, on Page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: On Family Farms, Little Hands Steer Big Machines.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.OpinionAfter years of living with stage IV cancer, I have some suggestions.CreditRebecca MockSupported byBy Kate BowlerDURHAM, N.C. — EVERY 90 days I lie in a whirling CT machine, dye coursing through my veins, and the doctors look to see whether the tumors in my liver are growing. If they are not, the doctors smile and schedule another scan. The rhythm has been the same since my doctors told me I had stage IV colon cancer two and a half years ago. I live for three months, take a deep breath and hope to start over again. I will probably do this for the rest of my life. Whatever that means.When my scan is over, I need to make clear to my friends and my family that though I pray to be declared cured, I must be grateful. I have three more months of life. Hallelujah.So I try to put the news in a little Facebook post, that mix of sun and cloud. I am trying to clear the linguistic hurdles that show up on my chart. Noncurative. Stage IV. I want to communicate that I am hoping for a continued durable remission in the face of no perfect cure, but the comments section is a blurry mess of You kicked cancers butt! and God bless you in your preparations.It feels impossible to transmit the kernel of truth. I am not dying. I am not terminal. I am keeping vigil in the place of almost death. I stand in the in-between where everyone must pass, but so few can remain.I was recently at a party in a head-to-toe Tonya Harding costume, my blond wig in a perfect French braid, and a woman I know spotted me from across the dance floor.I guess youre not dying! she yelled over the music, and everyone stopped to stare at me.Im working on it! I yelled back, after briefly reconsidering my commitment to pacifism.We all harbor the knowledge, however covertly, that were going to die, but when it comes to small talk, I am the angel of death. I have seen people try to swallow their own tongue after uttering the simple words How are you? I watch loved ones devolve into stammering good wishes and then devastating looks of pity. I can see how easily a well-meaning but ill-placed suggestion makes them want to throw themselves into oncoming traffic.A friend came back from Australia with a years worth of adventures to tell and ended with a breathless You have to go there sometime! He lapsed into silence, seeming to remember at that very moment that I was in the hospital. And I didnt know how to say that the future was like a language I didnt speak anymore.Most people I talk with succumb immediately to a swift death by free association. I remind them of something horrible and suddenly they are using words like pustules at my childs fourth-birthday party. They might be reminded of an aunt, a neighbor or a cousins friend. No matter how distant the connection, all the excruciating particularities of this persons misfortune will be excavated.This is not comforting. But I remind myself to pay attention because some people give you their heartbreak like a gift. It was a month or so into my grueling chemotherapy regimen when my favorite nurse sat down next to me at the cancer clinic and said softly: Ive been meaning to tell you. I lost a baby.The way she said baby, with the lightest touch, made me understand. She had nurtured a spark of life in her body and held that child in her arms, and somewhere along the way she had been forced to bury that piece of herself in the ground. I might have known by the way she smoothed all my frayed emotions and never pried for details about my illness. She knew what it was like to keep marching long after the world had ended.What does the suffering person really want? How can you navigate the waters left churning in the wake of tragedy? I find that the people least likely to know the answer to these questions can be lumped into three categories: minimizers, teachers and solvers.The minimizers are those who think I shouldnt be so upset because the significance of my illness is relative. These people are very easy to spot because most of their sentences begin with Well, at least …. Minimizers often want to make sure that suffering people are truly deserving before doling out compassion.My sister was on a plane from Toronto to visit me in the hospital and told her seatmate why she was traveling. Then, as she wondered when she had signed up to be a contestant in the calamity Olympics, the stranger explained that my cancer was vastly preferable to life during the Iranian revolution.Some people minimize spiritually by reminding me that cosmically, death isnt the ultimate end. It doesnt matter, in the end, whether we are here or there. Its all the same, said a woman in the prime of her youth. She emailed this message to me with a lot of praying-hand emoticons. I am a professor at a Christian seminary, so a lot of Christians like to remind me that heaven is my true home, which makes me want to ask them if they would like to go home before me. Maybe now?Atheists can be equally bossy by demanding that I immediately give up any search for meaning. One told me that my faith was holding me hostage to an inscrutable God, that I should let go of this theological guesswork and realize that we are living in a neutral universe. But the message is the same: Stop complaining and accept the world as it is.The second exhausting type of response comes from the teachers, who focus on how this experience is supposed to be an education in mind, body and spirit. I hope you have a Job experience, one man said bluntly. I cant think of anything worse to wish on someone. God allowed Satan to rob Job of everything, including his childrens lives. Do I need to lose something more to learn Gods character? Sometimes I want every know-it-all to send me a note when they face the grisly specter of death, and Ill send them a poster of a koala that says, Hang in there!The hardest lessons come from the solutions people, who are already a little disappointed that I am not saving myself. There is always a nutritional supplement, Bible verse or mental process I have not adequately tried. Keep smiling! Your attitude determines your destiny! said a stranger named Jane in an email, having heard my news somewhere, and I was immediately worn out by the tyranny of prescriptive joy.There is a trite cruelty in the logic of the perfectly certain. Those people are not simply trying to give me something. They are tallying up the sum of my life — looking for clues, sometimes for answers — for the purpose of pronouncing a verdict. But I am not on trial. To so many people, I am no longer just myself. I am a reminder of a thought that is difficult for the rational brain to accept: that the elements that constitute our bodies might fail at any moment. When I originally got my diagnosis at age 35, all I could think to say was, But I have a son. It was the best argument I had. I cant end. This world cant end. It had just begun.A tragedy is like a fault line. A life is split into a before and an after, and most of the time, the before was better. Few people will let you admit that out loud. Sometimes those who love you best will skip that first horrible step of saying: Im sorry. Im so sorry this is happening to you. Hope may prevent them from acknowledging how much has already been lost. But acknowledgment is also a mercy. It can be a smile or a simple Oh, hon, what a year youve had. It does not ask anything from me but makes a little space for me to stand there in that moment. Without it, I often feel like I am starring in a reality program about a woman who gets cancer and is very cheerful about it.After acknowledgment must come love. This part is tricky because when friends and acquaintances begin pouring out praise, it can sound a little too much like a eulogy. Ive had more than one kindly letter written about me in the past tense, when I need to be told who I might yet become.But the impulse to offer encouragement is a perfect one. There is tremendous power in touch, in gifts and in affirmations when everything you knew about yourself might not be true anymore. I am a professor, but will I ever teach again? Im a mom, but for how long? A friend knits me socks and another drops off cookies, and still another writes a funny email or takes me to a concert. These seemingly small efforts are anchors that hold me to the present, that keep me from floating away on thoughts of an unknown future. They say to me, like my sister Maria did on one very bad day: Yes, the world is changed, dear heart, but do not be afraid. You are loved, you are loved. You will not disappear. I am here.Kate Bowler is an assistant professor at Duke Divinity School, the author of Everything Happens for a Reason: And Other Lies Ive Loved and the host of the forthcoming podcast Everything Happens.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementLike postcards, no two members of the Metropolitan Postcard Club of New York City are quite the same.By ANNIE CORREALJAN. 26, 2018
Marilyn Stern held out a black-and-white postcard of a baby panda from 1948.Whats interesting to me is that it says, Most valuable captive animal, said Ms. Stern, one of a few dozen postcard collectors who had gathered on a recent Sunday at the Watson Hotel in Midtown.I have a category that almost no one collects, which is superlatives— the biggest, the smallest, the newest, the oldest, the most expensive, the most beautiful, et cetera, said Ms. Stern, a photographer and graphic artist. She admired the panda, which looked out from a crib.Isnt he cute?Stuff tends to collect in New York City. So, too, do collectors — who bring more stuff. It is a cycle that over the years has created huge collections in the city — of art, antiques, manuscripts, classic cars, but also some unexpected items: glass eyeballs, buttons, fluff.And postcards.The world may have largely abandoned postcard writing, but deltiology — or postcard collecting — persists.AdvertisementIn New York, local deltiologists can be found at gatherings of the Metropolitan Postcard Club of New York City, which for more than seven decades has hosted shows and convened in hotels, churches and members living rooms.AdvertisementAmong the clubs more than 200 current members are authors, psychotherapists, schoolteachers, a few postcard artists, a retired prison librarian, a former postal worker and Leonard A. Lauder, the emeritus chairman of the Estée Lauder Companies and former chairman of the Whitney Museum, who began collecting postcards of Art Deco Miami hotels as a child.Like the members themselves, no two postcard collections are alike. A founder of the club, Joe Nardone, collected postcards of Main Street in different towns and cities around the United States. Current members specialize in postcards of Eskimos; Broadway theaters; kilts; old Baku, Azerbaijan. The list goes on.Deltiologists like to say, If it exists, its on a postcard, and indeed, it seems that each of the collectors in the club, like subjects in a Werner Herzog film, has been tasked with tending over a small corner of the universe.A lot of the things dont exist anymore, so theyre an important historical record, said Rod Kennedy, the president of the club. We are sort of the custodians.There are people who only collect World War I submarines, Mr. Kennedy said. I met another guy who collected harps and orchestras playing harps. He traveled hundreds of miles, looking for these harps. Maybe once every two years he got lucky.As a group, Mr. Kennedy said, the clubs current members have rescued at least a few million postcards — from junk stores, flea markets, estate sales and basements — many thousands of which have been donated to museums.That Sunday, some of them had gathered in a conference room tucked at the back of the Watson Hotel for their monthly meeting. Folding tables had been set up and were covered in shoeboxes, each filled with postcards, all sorted by topic.AdvertisementClocks, Coat of Arms, read the labels on one box. Disney, Erotica, Ethnic Customs, Exaggeration/Fantasy, Fairs and Expos, Families, Fire Fighting, Flags.The postcards, which had been priced in pencil and slipped into plastic sleeves, ranged from less than $1 to more than $100.George Gibbs, a dealer, had brought a selection of the 20,000 to 30,000 cards he takes to the clubs biannual shows. He pulled out some real photo postcards — these were actual photos printed on card stock, not lithographic or offset prints, the kind of postcard that could easily fetch $100, said Mr. Gibbs.One featured three men lifting 150-pound anvils with their ears for Ripleys Believe It or Not! in 1944. He opened an album and took out another. In it, several men sat around a card table; if you looked closely, they were revealed to be the same person — a fad around a century ago that was later used by Marcel Duchamp in his Five-Way Portrait of Marcel Duchamp. Photo studios used to take portraits and create such optical illusions using mirrors, he said — an early forerunner of Bitmojis and face filters today.At one time, postcards were also printed by governments and political groups, who used them to spread propaganda and push social agendas. He pulled out a postcard, warning that it was graphic. Its probably a soldier with World War I injuries, he said, turning over the card to reveal a man whose face been severely disfigured; his flesh had been crudely sewn together in folds around the eyes and teeth. It was likely printed in Britain, he said. They would make series of cards to illustrate the horrors of war, so it would never be repeated.Its a little world in here, Mr. Gibbs said.  You can go down the rabbit hole.Across the room, another dealer, Ira Rubin, showed a collector a stack of Halloween cards. Halloween is very, very rare, he explained. Its the most popular of all the holidays, so it is the most sought-after. While the panda card cost less than $5, a vintage linen Halloween card could go for $20 or more.Hy Mariampolski, a dealer whose wares covered several tables, said the messages written on cards were amusing but often of little interest to collectors. Postcards were the text messages and emails of their day; they were how people invited one another to dinner and to tea, and said, Thank you for a lovely time. Like emails and texts, they changed how people wrote, but on the whole, they were pretty boring.Have not much time so will write later, thank you for the postcard, it was a dandy, read the message on a card featuring a pair of womens shoes, from 1909.AdvertisementThere were exceptions. Mr. Mariampolski pulled out a postcard of a comely French nurse in aquarelle, which, according to the senders message, had been plucked from the coat of a dead Austrian.Mr. Mariampolski added: I started as a collector, but like all kinds of junkies, you eventually have to become a dealer to support your habit. He said he found postcards in various places. There were flea markets abroad — One of the best is in Buenos Aires, he said— an annual antique fair in Brimfield, Massachusetts. And some were found close to home. I live out here in the Hamptons. Its one of those places: Gods waiting room, as they say. There are all kinds of articles and collections that come up when people pass away.The postcard era began around 1900, when the printing of commercial postcards took off around the United States and Europe, and peaked in the first decades of the century. The golden era is thought to have ended around World War I, when the supply of German postcards, considered by many to be the best in the world, was cut off.Major shifts followed: White border postcards were introduced, to save expensive ink; linen postcards and photochrome color postcards, or chromes, came along around the 1940s.Postcard collecting had started almost immediately. It had a lot to do with early mass tourism, said Mr. Kennedy, the club president, who has published three books of historic postcards, of the Lost New York, Hollywood and Atlantic City. People would entertain themselves by putting these cards in albums, he said, and they would put them in their parlors and share them to show their travels.In other words, Instagram before the Internet.But postcards werent documentary in the strict sense of the term. Before photochrome cards, artists created color postcards from black and white photographs and often embellished them with details like clouds or trees that werent there, Mr. Kennedy said. They could take a single photograph and make two postcards from it — say, London by Day and London by Night.They could also create what are known as exaggerations. Exaggeration cards at the hotel that day featured, for example, giant apples rolling through an otherwise realistic scene, and an enormous fish rising from the water and tipping a fishermans boat (A fight with a mad pickrel, read the handwritten caption, from 1911).While collectors browsed in the conference room, a few women came in carrying thick, brown photo albums, which eventually formed a leaning tower in one corner. Sandra Gottlin was dropping off the last of her father Kurt Gorwitzs collection, which she had donated to the club. He was a Holocaust refugee from Austria, she said. He collected 22,000 cards. He loved Austria. He loved Canada. He loved National Parks.AdvertisementShe went on, her eyes filling with tears: He used to sit on the floor. He would put them in the albums and on some of them he would write where they were from. She opened an album with a sticky, ripping sound, and revealed a page of postcards of museum dioramas of Native American life.You dont have to talk to a postcard collector long before the conversation turns existential. Postcard collecting, even if it was given a burst of life by the Internet and the rise of online marketplaces such as eBay, is not exactly a youthful pursuit.Can we have silence please? said Mr. Kennedy, standing in the center of the room at the Watson and calling the group to order for the meeting. He shuffled some papers and cleared his throat. It was a quiet year, and we continued to do well. Then he read the names of members who had died.Those present murmured in sympathy. Lets face it, said Mr. Kennedy. We need to get new members. We need to get younger members.Unless there is a new generation of postcard collectors, club members say, there will be no one to save postcards from the recycling plant.A few years back, as part of its mission to promote deltiology, the club became a nonprofit. It has a Facebook page, advertises shows — how else, by postcard — and its monthly meetings, with for-sale postcards, are open to the public. (The next one is Feb. 11, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., at the Watson Hotel.) Its members say they hope they might be able to capture a new following.Postcards are like a time machine into the past, said Ms. Stern, the collector of superlatives. Whether its fashion, technology or race relations, you can go visit it in the past.She added: And its fun.A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 2018, on Page MB1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Postcard People Carry On.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
JONATHAN  WOLFE

JAN. 26, 2018
Good morning on this crisp and sunny Friday.BroadwayCon kicks off today. Cue the happy tears.The annual madhouse at the Javits Center in Midtown Manhattan welcomes thousands of giddy theater enthusiasts from New York, small towns and across the world — as our hometown industry has gone global.Its a chance for Hamilfans to belt out My Shot en masse, aspiring stage moms to take in panels on Parenting in the Theater, and young men to catwalk across the convention floor in knee-high, ruby red Kinky Boots.But whats it like for the performers to spend the weekend among a crush of adoring fans?Fascinating and a little strange, said Lesli Margherita, who played Mrs. Wormwood in Matilda the Musical — especially when you see someone dressed up as real-life you.Like, Ive seen some really good Mrs. Wormwoods, she said. But I have also seen me as well.AdvertisementAt her first BrodwayCon in 2016, she met one fan dressed as her Jack Russell terrier, Stewie, and another in workout wear with a piece of wood taped to her leg — a nod to when Ms. Margherita hurt herself doing a jump split onto a broken wood panel onstage in 2014.AdvertisementThey make me laugh, she said. I love them.Erin Quill, an original Broadway cast member of Avenue Q, described the atmosphere this way: Like a suffocating hug from people who love you just as much as if they gave birth to you. (Thats a positive thing, she added.)While fans are always respectful, she said, she will occasionally sneak off to the green room because sometimes you feel like, Wow, I love all you guys and I know you love me, but I just need to breathe for a second.Ms. Quill gets it, though: Many stars were themselves superfans once — obsessing over lyrics, following casting changes and spending weekends reading soundtrack liner notes.We were the island of misfit toys in junior high and high school, she said. We look at the kid thats almost weeping, or almost hyperventilating, and think, I remember being that kid.Heres what else is happening:Not much to say about today — sunny with a high near 37 — so lets talk about the weekend.It will feel like spring tomorrow. Expect sunshine, a strong breeze and a high near 52.Sunday looks springy, too. Rain is likely in the morning, with highs in the low 50s.• Stephanie Miner, the former Democratic mayor of Syracuse, announced that she would not run for Congress, but was instead considering a run for governor. [New York Times]• At an Albany budget hearing, elected officials from across New York State demanded answers from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. [New York Times]Advertisement• Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo used the private plane of a billionaire hedge fund manager to attend the Sundance Film Festival, where his girlfriend was screening a documentary. [New York Times]• A federal judge has recommended skipping the fact-finding stage to go right to awarding damages in a New York police misconduct case. [New York Times]• A New York State task forces plan has been seen as the starting point to build political consensus to make congestion pricing a reality. [New York Times]• A Pennsylvania treatment center for the disabled filed a defamation suit against a New York advocacy group that released a scathing report claiming the center abused residents. [New York Times]• In About New York, the columnist Jim Dwyer explores both sides of the dispute between the mayor and the governor over the priorities of subway repair and renovation. [New York Times]• The director of MoMA PS1 and curator at large for the Museum of Modern Art, along with a Puerto Rican photojournalist, traveled through Puerto Rico to see how artists were facing challenges post-Hurricane Maria. [New York Times]• Bernadine Morris, a veteran fashion critic for The New York Times, died at 92. [New York Times]• Management of a Brooklyn carwash is facing a lawsuit for allegedly underpaying over $540,000 in wages and benefits to more than 150 of its employees. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]• A homeless man attempted to rob a bank in the Bronx with a crossbow and claimed he was Captain America when the police arrived. [New York Post]Advertisement• Todays Metropolitan Diary: The Hitchhiker• For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.•  Plan a vacation, pick up globe-trotting tips and speak to travel experts at the weekend-long New York Times TravelShow at the Javits Center. 9 a.m. [$20]•  One Basquiat, including the artists landmark 1982 painting Untitled, opens at the Brooklyn Museum. 11 a.m. [$16]• The Olympic figure skater Johnny Weir performs, along with others, at the Rink at Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan. 6 p.m. [Free]• An evening of traditional Korean music and jazz at Flushing Town Hall in Queens. 8 p.m. [$16]• Rangers at Predators, 8 p.m. (MSG). Nets at Bucks, 8 p.m. (YES).Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.•  This weeks The New York Times Close Up features the playwright Dael Orlandersmith. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV.• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday • Learn how to ski, play Arctic golf or build a snowman at Winter Jam at the Naumburg Bandshell in Central Park. 11 a.m. [Free]• Learn how soldiers survived harsh winters during the Revolutionary War at Fort Greene Park in Brooklyn. 1 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• Six short films by Stan Brakhage are screened at the Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens. 1:30 p.m. [$15]•  A puppet show based on Aesops Fables at the Overlook at Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan. 2 p.m. [Free]• Knicks at Suns, 9 p.m. (MSG).Sunday • Urban Park Rangers impart winter survival skills at Sunset Park in Brooklyn. 1 p.m. [Free]• Enter a trivia contest based on the Watershed Relief Map created for the 1939 Worlds Fair at the Queens Museum in Flushing Meadows Corona Park. 2 p.m. [$8]•  Zhang Yimous 2002 blockbuster Hero is screened as part of the Martial/Art series at the Metrograph on the Lower East Side. 3:30 p.m. [$15]• Comedians and storytellers spin tales based on Instagram photos that made them feel left out at FOMO Live at Union Hall in Park Slope, Brooklyn. 8 p.m. [$10]• Nets at Timberwolves, 9 p.m. (YES).• For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Theyre back.After  15 years outside of New York, the Grammy Awards will be handed out on Sunday at Madison Square Garden.AdvertisementAnd you dont need a backstage pass to hear the nominees. Here are a few concerts by this years Grammy contenders and other ways to celebrate:• Mastercard House hosts a panel with the production team the Stereotypes at 1 p.m. on Friday. Austin Brown performs at 3 p.m. on Saturday. Theyre also offering free concerts by Portugal. The Man at 9 p.m. on Friday and Dua Lipa at 9 p.m. on Saturday to Masterpass holders, or those who register for the service. (Mastercard not required to sign up.) At 60 10th Avenue in the meatpacking district. [Free]• An evening of folk and American roots music featuring Olivia Chaney of Offa Rex and the Secret Sisters at Joes Pub in the East Village at 1 p.m. [Tickets start at $75]• The Canadian electronic duo Adventure Club performs at Lavo in Midtown Manhattan. Saturday at 11 p.m. [$30]• More than 30 of this years nominees performed, worked or got their start at the Apollo Theater, which is hosting its annual pre-Grammy How I Wrote That Song panel with Faith Evans and Tory Lanez, at 1 p.m. [$25]• Brooklyn Bowl in Williamsburg is hosting a Grammy watch party and donating the proceeds to Musicares. Sunday at 7 p.m. [$30 to watch, $90 to bowl]The Grammys will be broadcast at 7:30 p.m. on CBS. You can follow along with our coverage here.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Follow Us:Get the Upshot in your Inbox

      By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

JAN. 26, 2018

The actor worked with the director Sigal Avin to show what sexual harassment looks like. We asked experts to comment on one of the scripts, with ideas on how to prevent it.
Related Article
David Schwimmer, the actor best known as Ross from Friends, and Sigal Avin, the director and screenwriter, are on a mission to make sure everybody knows what sexual harassment looks like and what to do about it.They teamed up to make a series of short videos called #ThatsHarassment. Beginning Friday, edited versions will be shown on TV and digital outlets including Fox, Showtime, CBS, Hulu and Amazon. On Monday, they will begin to be shown in New York City taxis.We asked five experts in combating harassment — two harassment prevention trainers, a civil rights activist, a lawyer and a professor — to annotate one of the scripts, below, with their advice about what victims and bystanders could do and with context for how harassment happens and the tactics that perpetrators use.Ask our panel for advice here »The point of the series is to name unacceptable behavior, offer support for victims and call employers to action, Mr. Schwimmer said. He acts in one of the films, and made the series with Ms. Avin, who wrote and directed the films, and Mazdack Rassi, a founder of Milk Studios.Ms. Avin came up with the idea for the videos, a version of which she first made in Israel, because she wanted to define and visualize what everyday harassment looks like. It was taking what some consider a gray area and making it clear: Thats harassment, she said.The American version of the series, starring actors like Cynthia Nixon and Bobby Cannavale, was released on Facebook in April. Then, six months later, the Harvey Weinstein scandal broke, and Mr. Schwimmer decided the videos needed wider distribution.Experts say its everyones responsibility to prevent harassment — not just harassers and victims but also employers and bystanders. Mr. Schwimmer specifically cited men, who he said have not been outspoken enough because of an atmosphere of condemnation for any missteps in talking about it.Look, men have a lot to learn, but youre not going to learn anything without dialogue, he said. Men commit the vast majority of rapes, sexual assault and sexual harassment, so men have a special responsibility to do something about it and get involved.Following is the script, by Ms. Avin, with experts annotations. (The script has been lightly edited to remove crude language.)Watch the full video here »
THE SCRIPT

A female bartender in her 20s and a male bartender in his 30s are behind a bar prepping for their shift.

HIM 
                  
                  Is this your first shift? 
                
HER 
                  
                  Yea. Have you worked here for a while? 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Yea. Im going on my third year. 
                
HER 
                  
                  Oh, cool. 
                
HIM
Ive actually worked here for about a year and a half before Liviya. How do you know Liviya?Robert Eckstein, lead trainer, Prevention Innovations Research Center, University of New Hampshire
HER 
                  
                  Oh, we used to go surfing together. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Really? No way. 
                
HER 
                  
                  Yep. Surfing camp. Couple of years ago. 
                
HIM    
                  

                  Surfing camp?! Thats kind of hot. You and Liviya, little bikinis, catching waves —Robert Eckstein, trainer 
                  
                  He imitates them keeping their bikinis up. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  With all the talk that goes on in here, believe me, I was being subtle. Seriously. The guys in here... Its a lot. Did Liviya fill you in? 
                
HER
Its O.K. Its not my first time bartending —Shannon Rawski, assistant professor of human resource management at the University of Wisconsin, Oshkosh
HIM 
                  
                  Its a sausage party. 
                
HER 
                  
                  Im very familiar. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Cause youre a sexy girl, Sam. 
                
HER
Thanks.Fran Sepler, consultant, trainer and investigator on workplace harassment prevention
HIM 
                  
                  Youre welcome. Guys are going to be coming up to you all the time. 
                
HER 
                  
                  Well, I dont know about that. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Oh yea. Theyre going to be like — 
                
He comes up close.Shannon Rawski, professor
HIM 
                  
                  Hey, thats a sexy rear you got going on over there. Does that sexy rear have a number I can call? 
                
Shes uncomfortable.Gillian Thomas, senior staff lawyer, A.C.L.U. Women's Rights Project
HIM 
                  
                  Im serious, and Im being subtle. Because some of the guys are way worse than that. And they dont always stick to just words. 
                
HER    
                  

                  Thats O.K. Its like that everywhere. Part of the job.Shannon Rawski, professor
HIM 
                  
                  Yea, cause you know guys. Theyll be getting drunk, thinking they can have whatever they want. You know, the whole grab em by the ... thing, and then out of nowhere theyre just like — 
                
                  

                  He grabs her from behind. Shes so surprised shes not even sure how to react.Tarana Burke, Founder of the me too movement and senior director of Girls for Gender Equity
HER
You just fully grabbed my ...Fran Sepler, trainer and investigator
HIM 
                  
                  Im sorry, I didnt mean to ... I just wanted to show you what youre in for. 
                
HER 
                  
                  Yea, O.K., I get it, you just didnt have to — 
                 
                  
                  He turns his back to her in a playful way. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Here, lets just make things even, grab mine — 
                
HER 
                  
                  No, its O.K. Never mind. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Come on, grab it. 
                
HER 
                  
                  No, its totally fine. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Are you sure? 
                
HER 
                  
                  Yea, I dont care. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  So were really O.K.? 
                
HER
Yes.Tarana Burke, activist
HIM 
                  
                  O.K., good. Cause for a second there you turned around like you were going to give me some kind of feminist rant garbage. And Im the biggest feminist I know. 
                
HER 
                  
                  Oh, Im sure. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Yea, I love women. 
                 
                  
                  She smiles to herself. 
                
HIM
Are you sure were O.K.?Robert Eckstein, trainer
HER 
                  
                  Yep. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  For sure? 
                
HER 
                  
                  Yes. 
                
HIM 
                  
                  Good. Cause you really seem cool. Like, super cool. And if anybody DOES grab your rear, just tell them, Dude, hands off. 
                 
                  
                  Most guys will listen. And if he doesnt listen, just come and get me and Ill make sure that loser is out of here. 
                
Somebody walks in quickly, passes by.Robert Eckstein, trainer
HIM
Thats our D.J., Momo. So last thing — sometimes the music will get a little bit loud in here, so your customers are going to have a hard time hearing you, so you may want to —Gillian Thomas, lawyer 
                  
                  He comes close to her ear, whispering so she can hardly hear. 
                
HER 
                  
                  What? 
                
                  

                  He goes in closer. He bites/licks her ear. She freezes. Hes amused.Gillian Thomas, lawyer
HIM 
                  
                  And Ive seen worse! Seriously. Its crazy. Im gonna go change the kegs, O.K.? 
                 
                  
                  He walks out of the bar. She wipes her ear. 
                 
                  
                  Fade to black. 
                Advertisement

 Eric Asimov
 

THE POUR
JAN. 25, 2018
Wine comes in seemingly endless varieties, from a growing number of places and in countless styles. While the choices may sometimes seem overwhelming, they also present a wonderful opportunity for pleasure and experimentation.On a recent expedition through a handful of Manhattan shops, I found these 20 excellent bottles, all under $20. They come from eight different countries, and even more regions. Most of these are red, in deference to the season, when most people gravitate toward heartier dishes. But in winter I still eat foods that call for white wines, and I always like sparkling wines, so both are represented as well.The $20 price is crucial. Budget-minded shoppers may recoil, believing they can find plenty of bottles under $10. Thats true, and most of those wines will be technically sound. They will also be boring, the scourge of mass-market wines today.By contrast, most of these are from small producers who work traditionally and sometimes iconoclastically. Wines like these cost a little more, from $15 to $25, but for that price, the level of interest and pleasure in the wines increases exponentially.AdvertisementAmong these selections are merlot and chardonnay, seemingly the most mundane of wines, but delicious when carefully and conscientiously produced. Alongside are rarities, made from grapes like vespolina, xinomavro, vernatsch and persan, which have long local histories but are largely unknown in the United States. Why not give them a try?AdvertisementThese 20 bottles were the top results from my own shopping. Invariably, different stores in other parts of the country will have entirely different inventories and selections. If you cannot find any of these bottles, ask a good local wine shop what their best values are for around $20, specifying any broad preferences you may have, like red or white.Its possible that some merchants will simply try to unload bottles they cannot otherwise sell. The best stores will not want to saddle you with rejects. They will honor your request and give you what they think is best for the price. Thats how you get customers to return.Here are the 20 bottles, in no particular order.Domaine du Facteur Vouvray Extra Brut NV $19.99This sparkling Vouvray is foaming, voluminous and bone dry. While it tastes more like the grape than the place, with a true honeysuckle, herbal, chamomile flavor of chenin blanc, it is rich and satisfying enough for a cold and snowy day. (Zev Rovine Selections, Brooklyn, N.Y.)Meinklang Burgenland Blaufränkisch 2015 $18.99Meinklang is one of the more interesting and unusual Austrian estates. It farms biodynamically, as many good wineries do nowadays, but it strives for a true biodiversity, as is not always possible in monocultural areas like Burgundy. The results, in my experience, have been clear, pure wines like this bright blaufränkisch, with aromas of fresh, ripe dark fruits and a welcome touch of bitterness. (Artisanal Cellars, White River Junction, Vt.)Château de Brézé Saumur Rouge Clos Mazurique 2016 $18.99The cabernet franc wines of the Loire have been perennially great values, and this remains true even though wine writers have for years been desperately trying to give away the secret. Arnaud Lambert of Château de Brézé is among the leading vignerons raising the level of quality in the Saumur region. The lovely Clos Mazurique is rich, spicy, earthy and floral, characterized more by its acidity than its tannins. (Becky Wasserman & Co./Grand Cru Selections, New York)De Martino Chile Viejas Tinajas Cinsault 2012 $19.99This wine, the first I have had from this producer, was a revelation: juicy, fresh and full of energy, with aromas of dark fruits, graphite and minerals. It was made from cinsault grapes grown in granitic soils. The grapes were fermented and aged in terra-cotta amphorae, a traditional method in the Chilean countryside, according to the importer. (Broadbent Selections, Sonoma, Calif.)Lise & Bertrand Jousset Vin de France Éxileé Rosé Pétillant 2016 $16.99Another sparkling wine from the Loire, yet so different from the Vouvray. This beautiful pink pétillant naturel is made from gamay grapes, bottled before the initial fermentation was completed. The carbon dioxide that was trapped in the bottle gives the wine its gentle sparkle. It smells like fresh strawberries and earth, and tastes slightly steely, in a good way. (T. Edward Wines, New York)AdvertisementMatthiasson California Tendu Red 2016 $19.99In the old days, this might have been called a jug wine, in the best sense of the phrase. Indeed, the Tendu is sold in 1-liter bottles — theres added value. Its so delicious and low in alcohol (just 11.7 percent) that youll want to gulp it down. Its an Italian-style blend of barbera, montepulciano and aglianico, plus some unidentified others. Its made without sulfur dioxide, a common stabilizer, yet Ive never seen a flawed bottle. Try it with burgers, pizza and even Cantonese food.Valle dellAcate Cerasuolo di Vittoria 2013 $17.99Cerasuolo di Vittoria is one of the great wines of Sicily, made in the Vittoria region in the southeastern part of the island. This refreshing bottle from Valle dellAcate is a fantastic value, earthy and lightly tannic, with rippling acidity and aromas of red and dark fruit. The high notes come from the frappato grape, the baritone from nero dAvola. (Polaner Selections, Mount Kisco, N.Y.)Knauss Württemberg Weisswein Trocken 2016 $18.99This bright, refreshing white comes from the Württemberg region, near Stuttgart in southwestern Germany. Its a blend of kerner, Müller-Thurgau and riesling and is beautifully balanced, with lively flavors of apricot and citrus. While not particularly complex, it is thoroughly delicious. (Selection Massale, Oakland, Calif.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.La Pépière Muscadet Sèvre & Maine Clos des Briords Cuvée Vieilles Vignes 2016 $18.99The Muscadets of La Pépière are wonderful values year in and year out. This one is naturally made from melon grapes grown in granitic soil. Its rich and savory, with a spine of mineral and lemon flavors. While Muscadet is famously great with oysters, do not restrict yourself. It also goes well with other seafood and poultry dishes. Drink young or save for a decade. (Louis/Dressner Selections, New York)Domaine des Forges Savennières Le Moulin du Gué 2015 $19.99Another chenin blanc value from the Loire Valley: This Savennières, from sandy schist soils in the Anjou region, is richly textured, bright and succulent. Serve with richer seafood or poultry dishes. (V.O.S. Selections, New York)Foxglove Central Coast Chardonnay 2014 $16.99Foxglove is the value label from Varner, which makes excellent wines in the Santa Cruz Mountains. This is rich, ample California chardonnay, unadulterated by oak and made without the softening influence of malolactic fermentation, which turns firm malic acid into creamy lactic acid. The chardonnay is juicy, lively and full-bodied, not complex or subtle — just a big, clean wine that feels good.Shinn Estate North Fork of Long Island Red Table Wine NV $13.99A nonvintage red? Why not, especially in an inexpensive wine like this one, where the aim is deliciousness and drinkability. Its spicy, brambly and precise, made mostly of merlot and cabernet franc, as well as trace amounts of cabernet sauvignon, petit verdot and malbec. From the terrific Shinn Estate, which changed ownership last summer. With luck, that will be the extent of the changes.Broadside Paso Robles Margarita Vineyard Merlot 2014 $18.99California merlot may never escape its besmirched reputation, courtesy of the 2004 movie Sideways, which memorably, and with good reason, dismissed it. While insipid or pretentious merlot abounds, this one, from the consistently good Broadside, is fresh and plummy, well balanced and lip-smacking, with a pleasant bitterness to invite the next sip.Château Milon St.-Émilion Cuvée Caprice 2016 $19.99A rare bargain from the prestigious St.-Émilion region, this is merlot from a Bordeaux point of view. As with all good Bordeaux, this is a refreshing drink of wine. At first its a bit tight, but with time in the glass it becomes quite floral, with firm tannins, focused and linear. Its not an aperitif wine; drink it with food. (Polaner Selections)AdvertisementKokkinos Naoussa Xinomavro 2013 $18.99Greek whites like assyrtiko from Santorini have gotten popular, but what of the reds? Heres an excellent start, from the northern appellation of Naoussa, made of the xinomavro grape. Its exuberant, bright, lively, rich and succulent. Serve with lamb, grilled or stewed. (Verity Wine Partners, New York)Alvar de Dios Hernández Toro Tío Uco 2016 $15.99This exceptional tempranillo from Toro, northwest of Madrid, is juicy and exuberant, powerful but tempered by good acidity. The ripe red fruit flavors have a tart little edge that makes you want to take another sip. (An Eric Solomon Selection/European Cellars, Charlotte, N.C.)Boniperti Colline Novaresi Favolalunga Vespolina 2015 $19.99Colline Novaresi is a small appellation in the northern part of the Piedmont region in northwestern Italy, near the better-known areas of Gattinara and Ghemme. Nebbiolo is grown there, but also a host of other related red grapes like vespolina. Favolalunga from Boniperti is made entirely of vespolina, gorgeously floral, spicy and fruity, and absolutely delicious. (Artisanal Cellars)Diego Losada La Senda Bierzo 1984 2015 $19.99In contrast to the more delicate sorts of wines made in Ribeira Sacra from the red mencía grape, the mencías from Bierzo, grown in slate and clay like this one from Diego Losada, tend to be more robust. Its earthy, herbal and fruity, with a firm tannic spine, but also has a refreshing lift to it. Serve with roasted meats. (José Pastor Selections/Llaurador Wines, Fairfax, Calif.)Franz Gojer Glögglhof Südtirol-Alto Adige Vernatsch Alte Reben 2016 $18.99The Franz Gojer winery is also known as Glögglhof, which makes sense: You simply want to glug this red down. It is made from a grape called vernatsch in Tyrolean Italy, which is also known in Lombardy as schiava and in Germany as trollinger (a word derived from Tyrol). By whichever name, this wine is fresh, bright, floral and fruity, with refreshing, lively acidity. (Polaner Selections)Domaine Giachino Isère Frères Giac 2016 $19.99The brothers Giachino, Frédéric and David (Frères Giac, get it?), farm organically in Isère, near the Alps in Savoie in eastern France. This fresh, pure, earthy red is made from gamay, a fairly widespread grape, and persan, which almost disappeared from the region before it began a small comeback. With the aromas of ripe red fruit and flowers, Frères Giac makes you want to sing lullabies. (Jeffrey Alpert Selection/Grand Cru Selections, New York)Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Write to Eric Asimov at asimov@nytimes.com, and follow him on Twitter: @EricAsimov.A version of this review appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Excellent Red and White Adventures, at Under $20.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JULIE TURKEWITZ, PATRICIA MAZZEI and AUDRA D. S. BURCHFEB. 16, 2018
Students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., hid in closets as a gunman fired a semiautomatic weapon into their classrooms. Seventeen people were killed.PARKLAND, Fla. — Grief and raw anger were palpable on Friday at the first funerals for students who died in one of the deadliest shootings in modern American history earlier this week.You, said Andrew Pollack, directing his fury at the man who authorities have identified as the gunman who killed his daughter, Meadow Pollack, 18. Killed. My. Kid. My kid is dead. It goes through my head all day. And night.As the burials began for the 17 victims, the F.B.I. acknowledged that it had failed to act on a warning last month that Nikolas Cruz, the suspect in Wednesdays shooting, might kill people at a school. On Friday evening, President Trump and the first lady, Melania Trump, made an unannounced visit to meet with law enforcement officials and medical workers who helped in the wake of the shooting.The consequences from the shooting have reverberated far beyond school, Marjory Stoneman Douglas High in Parkland, Fla., as schools around the nation closed Friday, or canceled activities after receiving threats. A teacher in Denver said she moved items from a closet in her classroom to make more space for 9-year-olds to hide.AdvertisementHeres the latest:• Mr. Cruz is being held without bond at the Broward County jail, where he has been placed on suicide watch, according to Gordon Weekes, the countys chief assistant public defender. He faces 17 counts of premeditated murder.Advertisement• A federal law enforcement official on Friday said that Mr. Cruz fired more than 100 rounds during the shooting.• Sheriff Scott Israel of Broward County said that his office had received about 20 calls about Mr. Cruz over the past two years, though cautioned that some of the calls may not have resulted in a response by officers.• More than 2,000 students have been interviewed as part of the investigation, the sheriff said. He added that Mr. Cruz did not have a gas mask or smoke grenades, as had previously been reported.• In Florida, an AR-15 is easier to buy than a handgun. Read more on how the AR-15 became one of the weapons of choice for mass killers, and the research that tries to explain the high rate of mass shootings in the United States.• Sign up for the Morning Briefing for news and a daily look at what you need to know to begin your day.The F.B.I.s admission that it failed to act on a tip in January from a person close to Mr. Cruz prompted Gov. Rick Scott of Florida to call for the bureaus director to resign.At a candlelight vigil Thursday night for the 17 people killed in a Florida school shooting, attendees chanted, No more guns.The bureau, which was already under considerable political pressure because of its investigation into Mr. Trump, faced calls for even more scrutiny following the massacre.AdvertisementMr. Scott said that Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I., should step down and that the bureaus failure to act on the tip about Mr. Cruz was unacceptable. Seventeen innocent people are dead and acknowledging a mistake isnt going to cut it, Mr. Scott said in a statement.In an unusually sharp public rebuke of his own agents, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Friday that the missed warnings had tragic consequences and that the F.B.I. in conjunction with our state and local partners must act flawlessly to prevent all attacks. This is imperative, and we must do better.Robert F. Lasky, the special agent in charge of the F.B.I. field office in Miami, said the agency advised the victims parents about the misstep in a conference call on Friday.We will be looking into where and how the protocol broke down, he said. Read more here.At the first funeral, Alyssa Miriam Alhadeff, 14, was remembered for her joy and kindness, traits that had attracted a wide circle of friends. Hundreds of mourners filled the Star of David Funeral Chapel in North Lauderdale, Fla., spilling outside.Among the youngest victims, Alyssa, an honor student and a player for the Parkland soccer club, was buried in the Garden of Aaron at Star of David Memorial Gardens.Her mother, Lori Alhadeff, urged Alyssas friends to stay in touch, but also let their future success be her daughters legacy. Live, breathe for Alyssa, she said.At a synagogue just a mile from where she had been gunned down, Meadow Pollack, 18, lay in a plain wooden coffin, closed in accordance with Jewish tradition.Before her were hundreds of mourners, seated in row upon row and crowding every wall and corner: her cousins, her classmates, the governor and so many others. She is survived by many family members, including her brothers and her grandmother Evelyn.Her father stood in a black suit before the crowd.How does this happen to my beautiful, smart, loving daughter? Mr. Pollack said. She is everything. If we could learn one thing from this tragedy, its that our everythings are not safe when we send them to school.AdvertisementThe room heaved with sobbing teenagers, and mourners wheeled out Ms. Pollacks coffin, to be buried in a nearby cemetery.The Trumps arrived Friday evening at a hospital in Pompano Beach that took in eight of the shooting victims, accompanied by John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, and Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida.The president and Mrs. Trump visited the Broward Health North Hospital to pay their respects and thank the medical professionals for their life-saving assistance, according to a statement related by a White House spokeswoman on Friday evening.When asked if he met with victims, Mr. Trump said: Yes, I did. I did indeed.Its sad something like that could happen, he said.Mr. Trump did not respond when he was asked if gun laws needed to be changed. He then walked into another room.Later, speaking during a meeting with law enforcement officials at the Broward County sheriffs office, the president thanked first responders for what he called an incredible job, according to a White House press pool report.Mr. Trump said he had met with the parents of some of the victims, and also spoke with a female victim at the hospital who he said had been shot four times and was saved because emergency workers got her to the hospital quickly.AdvertisementThe authorities were still investigating reports of shots fired on Friday morning at Highline College, about half an hours drive south of Seattle, said Capt. Kyle Ohashi, a spokesman for the Puget Sound Regional Fire Authority. No physical evidence of a weapons discharge — including shell casings or damage to any structure — had been found, he said. The school said in a statement on Facebook that the situation was cleared about three hours after a lockdown began. Several other agencies, including the federal Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, had also responded.The Gilchrist County School District in Florida shuttered its schools after receiving an email threat, and the Nutley Public School System in New Jersey also said it would be closed because of a security threat. A high school in Colorado Springs canceled a pep rally.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Schools also wrestled with how to proceed with lockdown drills, which have become as routine as fire drills as students prepare for the possibility of a shooting. Some schools opt to make the drills feel partially authentic — an approach several schools backed off from this week out of fear they would stir already heightened anxieties.At Dysart High School in El Mirage, Ariz., the principal took extra steps to make sure students knew its previously scheduled drill on Thursday was, in fact, just a drill. The reminder was included in the morning announcements, and she reiterated it on the public address system several times throughout the day, said Zachery Fountain, a district spokesman.Eureka High School in Eureka, Calif., postponed its drill that had been scheduled for Thursday, partly because officials were concerned about the mental state of students, said Fred Van Vleck, the district superintendent. Typically, the school doesnt announce that the lockdown is a drill, telling students only that there could be a drill within a one-week window, he said. Read more about the school closings.During the horror at Stoneman Douglas High on Wednesday, Carly Novell, a 17-year-old senior who is an editor for the schools quarterly magazine, hid in a closet and thought about an awful family tragedy from before she was born. Her mother had told her about how her grandfather had survived a mass shooting in 1949 in Camden, N.J. His family had not made it.My grandfather was 12, and his grandma and his mom and dad were killed while he hid in a closet, Ms. Novell said. They heard gunshots on the street, so my great-grandma told my grandpa to hide in the closet, so he was safe. But he didnt have a family after that.Interviewed on Thursday, she said: I was thinking of him while I was in the closet. I was wondering what he felt like while he was there. My mom has told me he was in shock after it, too — that he didnt remember how he got to the police station, or anything like that. I didnt forget anything, but I was in shock and I didnt understand what was going on.
                A gunman armed with a semiautomatic AR-15 assault rifle and countless magazines killed at least 17 people at his former high school on Wednesday.            In an orange jumpsuit and shackled around his hands, feet and waist, Mr. Cruz was asked if he understood the circumstances of his appearance in court. Yes, maam, he whispered.Nikolas Cruz, shown with a public defender, was ordered to be held in jail without bond.Hes sad. Hes mournful, his public defender, Melisa McNeill, said afterward. He is fully aware of what is going on, and hes just a broken human being.AdvertisementMr. Weekes, the chief assistant public defender, said lawyers were still trying to piece together the details of Mr. Cruzs life. He has a significant history of mental illness, according to Mr. Weekes, and may be autistic or have a learning disability. But Mr. Weekes was not ready to say whether he would pursue a mental health defense.Howard Finkelstein, the chief public defender in Broward County, said the case would present a difficult question: Should society execute mentally ill people?Theres no question of whether he will be convicted of capital murder 17 times, he said. When we let one of our children fall off grid, when they are screaming for help in every way, do we have the right to kill them when we could have stopped it?Elected and law enforcement officials — from Mr. Trump to the Broward County sheriff — have ramped up their demands for expanded authority over the mentally ill who pose a danger. In doing so, they stepped into a long and complicated balancing act in the United States between public safety and the right to bear arms for people with mental health issues.Others, including some gun control and mental health advocates, point to the increasing number of states that allow law enforcement officers or, in some cases, family members or others to petition a court to temporarily take guns from people who pose a danger to themselves or others.The measures, known as red flag laws or extreme risk protection orders, have shown evidence of reducing suicides in Connecticut, where the first such law was passed in 1999, and in recent years have also been passed in California, Washington and Oregon. Eighteen states, including Florida, and the District of Columbia are considering such laws this year, according to a list compiled by Everytown for Gun Safety, a nonprofit advocacy group.Red flag laws provide a path to remove guns from somebody in a temporary crisis, said Avery Gardiner, the co-president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. And, she said, even if a family decides not to seek a gun restraining order, the fact that the option exists can prompt frank conversations with struggling relatives. Read more about the debate around mental illness and gun ownership.Audra D.S. Burch and Julie Turkewitz reported from Parkland, and Patricia Mazzei from New York. Reporting was contributed by Neil Reisner from Parkland; Katie Rogers from Pompano Beach, Fla.; Timothy Williams, Jonah Engel Bromwich, Daniel Victor and Benjamin Mueller from New York; and Eileen Sullivan from Washington.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Eric Asimov
 

THE POUR
JAN. 25, 2018
Wine comes in seemingly endless varieties, from a growing number of places and in countless styles. While the choices may sometimes seem overwhelming, they also present a wonderful opportunity for pleasure and experimentation.On a recent expedition through a handful of Manhattan shops, I found these 20 excellent bottles, all under $20. They come from eight different countries, and even more regions. Most of these are red, in deference to the season, when most people gravitate toward heartier dishes. But in winter I still eat foods that call for white wines, and I always like sparkling wines, so both are represented as well.The $20 price is crucial. Budget-minded shoppers may recoil, believing they can find plenty of bottles under $10. Thats true, and most of those wines will be technically sound. They will also be boring, the scourge of mass-market wines today.By contrast, most of these are from small producers who work traditionally and sometimes iconoclastically. Wines like these cost a little more, from $15 to $25, but for that price, the level of interest and pleasure in the wines increases exponentially.AdvertisementAmong these selections are merlot and chardonnay, seemingly the most mundane of wines, but delicious when carefully and conscientiously produced. Alongside are rarities, made from grapes like vespolina, xinomavro, vernatsch and persan, which have long local histories but are largely unknown in the United States. Why not give them a try?AdvertisementThese 20 bottles were the top results from my own shopping. Invariably, different stores in other parts of the country will have entirely different inventories and selections. If you cannot find any of these bottles, ask a good local wine shop what their best values are for around $20, specifying any broad preferences you may have, like red or white.Its possible that some merchants will simply try to unload bottles they cannot otherwise sell. The best stores will not want to saddle you with rejects. They will honor your request and give you what they think is best for the price. Thats how you get customers to return.Here are the 20 bottles, in no particular order.Domaine du Facteur Vouvray Extra Brut NV $19.99This sparkling Vouvray is foaming, voluminous and bone dry. While it tastes more like the grape than the place, with a true honeysuckle, herbal, chamomile flavor of chenin blanc, it is rich and satisfying enough for a cold and snowy day. (Zev Rovine Selections, Brooklyn, N.Y.)Meinklang Burgenland Blaufränkisch 2015 $18.99Meinklang is one of the more interesting and unusual Austrian estates. It farms biodynamically, as many good wineries do nowadays, but it strives for a true biodiversity, as is not always possible in monocultural areas like Burgundy. The results, in my experience, have been clear, pure wines like this bright blaufränkisch, with aromas of fresh, ripe dark fruits and a welcome touch of bitterness. (Artisanal Cellars, White River Junction, Vt.)Château de Brézé Saumur Rouge Clos Mazurique 2016 $18.99The cabernet franc wines of the Loire have been perennially great values, and this remains true even though wine writers have for years been desperately trying to give away the secret. Arnaud Lambert of Château de Brézé is among the leading vignerons raising the level of quality in the Saumur region. The lovely Clos Mazurique is rich, spicy, earthy and floral, characterized more by its acidity than its tannins. (Becky Wasserman & Co./Grand Cru Selections, New York)De Martino Chile Viejas Tinajas Cinsault 2012 $19.99This wine, the first I have had from this producer, was a revelation: juicy, fresh and full of energy, with aromas of dark fruits, graphite and minerals. It was made from cinsault grapes grown in granitic soils. The grapes were fermented and aged in terra-cotta amphorae, a traditional method in the Chilean countryside, according to the importer. (Broadbent Selections, Sonoma, Calif.)Lise & Bertrand Jousset Vin de France Éxileé Rosé Pétillant 2016 $16.99Another sparkling wine from the Loire, yet so different from the Vouvray. This beautiful pink pétillant naturel is made from gamay grapes, bottled before the initial fermentation was completed. The carbon dioxide that was trapped in the bottle gives the wine its gentle sparkle. It smells like fresh strawberries and earth, and tastes slightly steely, in a good way. (T. Edward Wines, New York)AdvertisementMatthiasson California Tendu Red 2016 $19.99In the old days, this might have been called a jug wine, in the best sense of the phrase. Indeed, the Tendu is sold in 1-liter bottles — theres added value. Its so delicious and low in alcohol (just 11.7 percent) that youll want to gulp it down. Its an Italian-style blend of barbera, montepulciano and aglianico, plus some unidentified others. Its made without sulfur dioxide, a common stabilizer, yet Ive never seen a flawed bottle. Try it with burgers, pizza and even Cantonese food.Valle dellAcate Cerasuolo di Vittoria 2013 $17.99Cerasuolo di Vittoria is one of the great wines of Sicily, made in the Vittoria region in the southeastern part of the island. This refreshing bottle from Valle dellAcate is a fantastic value, earthy and lightly tannic, with rippling acidity and aromas of red and dark fruit. The high notes come from the frappato grape, the baritone from nero dAvola. (Polaner Selections, Mount Kisco, N.Y.)Knauss Württemberg Weisswein Trocken 2016 $18.99This bright, refreshing white comes from the Württemberg region, near Stuttgart in southwestern Germany. Its a blend of kerner, Müller-Thurgau and riesling and is beautifully balanced, with lively flavors of apricot and citrus. While not particularly complex, it is thoroughly delicious. (Selection Massale, Oakland, Calif.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.La Pépière Muscadet Sèvre & Maine Clos des Briords Cuvée Vieilles Vignes 2016 $18.99The Muscadets of La Pépière are wonderful values year in and year out. This one is naturally made from melon grapes grown in granitic soil. Its rich and savory, with a spine of mineral and lemon flavors. While Muscadet is famously great with oysters, do not restrict yourself. It also goes well with other seafood and poultry dishes. Drink young or save for a decade. (Louis/Dressner Selections, New York)Domaine des Forges Savennières Le Moulin du Gué 2015 $19.99Another chenin blanc value from the Loire Valley: This Savennières, from sandy schist soils in the Anjou region, is richly textured, bright and succulent. Serve with richer seafood or poultry dishes. (V.O.S. Selections, New York)Foxglove Central Coast Chardonnay 2014 $16.99Foxglove is the value label from Varner, which makes excellent wines in the Santa Cruz Mountains. This is rich, ample California chardonnay, unadulterated by oak and made without the softening influence of malolactic fermentation, which turns firm malic acid into creamy lactic acid. The chardonnay is juicy, lively and full-bodied, not complex or subtle — just a big, clean wine that feels good.Shinn Estate North Fork of Long Island Red Table Wine NV $13.99A nonvintage red? Why not, especially in an inexpensive wine like this one, where the aim is deliciousness and drinkability. Its spicy, brambly and precise, made mostly of merlot and cabernet franc, as well as trace amounts of cabernet sauvignon, petit verdot and malbec. From the terrific Shinn Estate, which changed ownership last summer. With luck, that will be the extent of the changes.Broadside Paso Robles Margarita Vineyard Merlot 2014 $18.99California merlot may never escape its besmirched reputation, courtesy of the 2004 movie Sideways, which memorably, and with good reason, dismissed it. While insipid or pretentious merlot abounds, this one, from the consistently good Broadside, is fresh and plummy, well balanced and lip-smacking, with a pleasant bitterness to invite the next sip.Château Milon St.-Émilion Cuvée Caprice 2016 $19.99A rare bargain from the prestigious St.-Émilion region, this is merlot from a Bordeaux point of view. As with all good Bordeaux, this is a refreshing drink of wine. At first its a bit tight, but with time in the glass it becomes quite floral, with firm tannins, focused and linear. Its not an aperitif wine; drink it with food. (Polaner Selections)AdvertisementKokkinos Naoussa Xinomavro 2013 $18.99Greek whites like assyrtiko from Santorini have gotten popular, but what of the reds? Heres an excellent start, from the northern appellation of Naoussa, made of the xinomavro grape. Its exuberant, bright, lively, rich and succulent. Serve with lamb, grilled or stewed. (Verity Wine Partners, New York)Alvar de Dios Hernández Toro Tío Uco 2016 $15.99This exceptional tempranillo from Toro, northwest of Madrid, is juicy and exuberant, powerful but tempered by good acidity. The ripe red fruit flavors have a tart little edge that makes you want to take another sip. (An Eric Solomon Selection/European Cellars, Charlotte, N.C.)Boniperti Colline Novaresi Favolalunga Vespolina 2015 $19.99Colline Novaresi is a small appellation in the northern part of the Piedmont region in northwestern Italy, near the better-known areas of Gattinara and Ghemme. Nebbiolo is grown there, but also a host of other related red grapes like vespolina. Favolalunga from Boniperti is made entirely of vespolina, gorgeously floral, spicy and fruity, and absolutely delicious. (Artisanal Cellars)Diego Losada La Senda Bierzo 1984 2015 $19.99In contrast to the more delicate sorts of wines made in Ribeira Sacra from the red mencía grape, the mencías from Bierzo, grown in slate and clay like this one from Diego Losada, tend to be more robust. Its earthy, herbal and fruity, with a firm tannic spine, but also has a refreshing lift to it. Serve with roasted meats. (José Pastor Selections/Llaurador Wines, Fairfax, Calif.)Franz Gojer Glögglhof Südtirol-Alto Adige Vernatsch Alte Reben 2016 $18.99The Franz Gojer winery is also known as Glögglhof, which makes sense: You simply want to glug this red down. It is made from a grape called vernatsch in Tyrolean Italy, which is also known in Lombardy as schiava and in Germany as trollinger (a word derived from Tyrol). By whichever name, this wine is fresh, bright, floral and fruity, with refreshing, lively acidity. (Polaner Selections)Domaine Giachino Isère Frères Giac 2016 $19.99The brothers Giachino, Frédéric and David (Frères Giac, get it?), farm organically in Isère, near the Alps in Savoie in eastern France. This fresh, pure, earthy red is made from gamay, a fairly widespread grape, and persan, which almost disappeared from the region before it began a small comeback. With the aromas of ripe red fruit and flowers, Frères Giac makes you want to sing lullabies. (Jeffrey Alpert Selection/Grand Cru Selections, New York)Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Write to Eric Asimov at asimov@nytimes.com, and follow him on Twitter: @EricAsimov.A version of this review appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Excellent Red and White Adventures, at Under $20.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byThe White House has shifted its story about how and when members of the administration learned about the domestic abuse allegations that forced a top aide to resign.By Michael D. Shear and Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — For more than a week, the White House has shifted its story about how and when members of the Trump administration learned about the domestic abuse allegations that forced Rob Porter, one of President Trumps top aides, to resign.On Tuesday, the director of the F.B.I., Christopher A. Wray, contradicted the latest White House timeline, disclosing that the bureau informed the White House on three separate occasions about the status of the background check into Mr. Porter.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later offered a new timeline, blaming career employees in the White House security office for failing to inform senior West Wing aides of the accusations against Mr. Porter.2003-2008Mr. Porter married Colbie Holderness weeks after the couple graduated from Harvard University and Wellesley College. She later told The Intercept that while on their honeymoon in the Canary Islands, Mr. Porter kicked her during an argument.While on vacation in Florence, Ms. Holderness took a photograph of herself with a black eye, which she said was taken shortly after Mr. Porter punched her. After the photos were published in The Intercept, Mr. Porter said in a statement that the images were misleading. I took the photos given to the media nearly 15 years ago, and the reality behind them is nowhere close to what is being described, he said.Mr. Porter and Ms. Holderness divorced.2009-2013Mr. Porter married Jennifer Willoughby. During their honeymoon, Ms. Willoughby said, Mr. Porter frequently became angry and yelled expletives at her.Ms. Willoughby filed a protective order against Mr. Porter in an Arlington County, Va., court after saying that he violated their separation agreement, came to their apartment and punched the glass in the door to their home.Mr. Porter and Ms. Willoughby divorced.A woman dating Mr. Porter at the time reached out to Ms. Willoughby and Ms. Holderness, detailing abuse and seeking advice on how to leave him.I work in politics, and despite Robs repeated abuse, some of which I think many know about, he continues to rise and Im afraid to go against him, the woman wrote to Ms. Holderness, according to Facebook messages. Im sorry to bother you. I wanted to reach out and hear your story if you are willing to share — as well as how you broke out of it with him and mostly, how you recovered.2017On Jan. 20, Mr. Porter became White House staff secretary and assistant to the president for policy coordination. He was responsible for paper flow to the president and was later involved in drafting President Trumps inaugural State of the Union address.Mr. Porter told Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, that he was concerned about his former wives coming forward with potentially damaging accusations.Despite that conversation, the White House granted Mr. Porter an interim security clearance to handle highly classified materials going to the president.F.B.I. agents interviewed Ms. Holderness and Ms. Willoughby as part of an investigation for Mr. Porters security clearance in the White House, and both women discussed the domestic abuse allegations. In January, Ms. Willoughby said, Mr. Porter sent a mutual friend to speak to her husband, Skiffington Holderness, about the interview.The F.B.I. delivered to the White House a partial report on problems in Mr. Porters background, Mr. Wray told senators Tuesday. Mr. Wray did not detail what was in the report or specify who at the White House received that information.In its initial explanations of the timeline, the White House did not disclose receiving information from the F.B.I. in March.On Tuesday, after Mr. Wrays testimony, two people briefed on the situation said the information delivered to the White House in March was only basic employment information, not allegations of abuse.Ms. Sanders said on Tuesday that information from the F.B.I. would have been received by the White House personnel security office. She said she was not aware that anyone at the security office disclosed in March to any official in the West Wing that there were problems with Mr. Porters background check.Ms. Willoughby published a blog post titled Why I Stayed, in which she described an abusive marriage with Mr. Porter, but did not name him. She said Mr. Porter later called her multiple times to demand that she remove the post.Summer 2017Mr. Wray testified on Tuesday that the F.B.I. gave the White House a completed background investigation in late July. Mr. Wray again declined to say who at the White House the F.B.I. communicated with when they delivered the completed background investigation.Mr. Wray said that soon thereafter the bureau received a request for a follow-up inquiry about Mr. Porters background investigation. Mr. Wray did not disclose what the follow-up inquiry was, or who made it.People briefed on the situation said officials at the security office encouraged the F.B.I. to interview Mr. Porter before closing its background investigation.Ms. Sanders said Tuesday that she was not aware that anyone in the White House security office contacted any senior official in the West Wing about Mr. Porters background check issues in July.However, people briefed on the issue said Mr. McGahn was made aware at the time that there was an issue with Mr. Porters background investigation. The White House disputed that assertion, saying that Mr. McGahn was unaware of any problem.Ms. Sanders said Tuesday that the security office believed that the F.B.I. report in July required significant additional investigatory fieldwork before security officials could decide whether to recommend a security clearance for Mr. Porter. They asked the F.B.I. to do more work on it, she said.According to Ms. Willoughby, White House officials informed Mr. Porter that his security clearance had not gone through, as she recalled him saying. She said he told her that someone had told him that there was a violent allegation and that was what was holding it up. An F.B.I. agent emailed Ms. Willoughby, asking for permission to gain access to the 2010 restraining order, writing, in furtherance of the background investigation.Fall 2017The F.B.I. delivered to the White House the results of the requested follow-up to Mr. Porters background investigation, according to Mr. Wray.Two people briefed on the matter said that by November, Mr. Porter had been interviewed by the F.B.I.Ms. Sanders said Tuesday that the security office received from the F.B.I. in November what it considered to be the final background investigation report and began evaluating Mr. Porters request for a security clearance.White House officials and people briefed on the case said the F.B.I. delivered a thick file on Mr. Porters background check to the security office and relayed that he was unlikely to succeed in receiving a permanent clearance. They said security office officials encouraged the F.B.I. to complete its investigation so the office could make a final decision on Mr. Porters clearance.Ms. Sanders said she was not aware that anyone in the security office communicated in November to any senior official in the West Wing about problems with Mr. Porters background investigation.But multiple people familiar with the situation have said top officials — including Mr. McGahn; John F. Kelly, the chief of staff; and Joe Hagin, the deputy chief of staff — learned in November that there were problems with Mr. Porters background investigation.One person briefed on the situation, who insisted on anonymity to discuss private deliberations, disputes that, saying that Mr. McGahn did not learn of the F.B.I.s communications to the security office in November.But people close to Mr. McGahn said that a woman who had been dating Mr. Porter for some time came to Mr. McGahn in mid-November to complain about Mr. Porter. The woman, who knew Mr. McGahn well, was upset because she had discovered that Mr. Porter was also dating Hope Hicks, the White House communications director. The people briefed on the conversation said the woman did not claim physical abuse, but told Mr. McGahn that he should not trust Mr. Porter.Mr. Porters background check investigation was administratively closed, Mr. Wray said during his testimony Tuesday, weeks before the allegations become public. The bureau received some additional information after the file was closed, he said, and passed that on to the White House as well.Mr. Wray said he was quite confident that established protocol was followed.February 2018Allegations of physical abuse from Ms. Holderness and Ms. Willoughby, Mr. Porters former wives, were published in The Daily Mail. Ms. Hicks worked with other White House officials to draft statements supporting Mr. Porter.Those statements included one from Mr. Kelly, who described Mr. Porter a man of true integrity and honor. Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who once employed Mr. Porter as chief of staff, said in a statement that the country needs more honest, principled people like Rob Porter, which is why I hope that this cynical campaign to discredit his character ultimately fails.Ms. Sanders said Tuesday that the White House security office was still evaluating the results of Mr. Porters background investigation, and had not yet come to a conclusion when the allegations against Mr. Porter were published.Mr. Porter, despite the support from senior White House officials, announced his resignation. In a statement, he said that these allegations are simply false, even as more details and photos said to be a result of the abuse circulated in a new interview published in The Intercept. Ms. Sanders also issued a statement saying that both the president and Mr. Kelly had full confidence in Mr. Porters performance. Mr. Kelly released a new statement later that day, around 10 p.m., saying he had been unaware of the allegations against Mr. Porter. Mr. Hatch, for his part, described himself as heartbroken by the new allegations.White House officials conceded regrets about how they handled the accusations against Mr. Porter. At a news briefing, Raj Shah, the deputy White House press secretary, told reporters that Mr. Kelly had not been aware of the allegations, and that the security clearance investigation into Mr. Porters background had been continuing until his resignation.His background investigation was ongoing, Mr. Shah told reporters. He was operating on an interim security clearance. His clearance was never denied, and he resigned.Mr. Kelly told staff members that he had learned the details of Mr. Porters situation only 40 minutes before he threw him out two days earlier. In a memo sent that night, Mr. Kelly wrote: While we are all processing the shocking and troubling allegations made against a former White House staffer, I want you to know that we all take matters of domestic violence very seriously. Domestic violence is abhorrent and has no place in our society.Mr. Trump acknowledged the accusations facing Mr. Porter, saying that it was a tough time for his former aide. The president added, He also, as you probably know, says he is innocent, and I think you have to remember that. Mr. Kelly also told White House officials that he was willing to step down over his handling of the allegations.That evening, the White House announced that Derek Lyons, another lawyer educated at Harvard Law School and Mr. Porters No. 2, had been elevated to acting staff secretary.A day after Mr. Trump complained that a mere allegation could ruin someone without due process, White House aides fanned out to talk shows to say that Mr. Porter had lied to them and deserved to be pushed out.While testifying in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Mr. Wray, the F.B.I. director, contradicted the White House timeline and confirmed for the first time that the bureau had given the White House a partial report on problems in Mr. Porters background in March. He also said the bureau had closed its investigation in January, though the White House had insisted that it was still continuing well into February. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.Michael D. Shear is a White House correspondent. He previously worked at The Washington Post and was a member of their Pulitzer Prize-winning team that covered the Virginia Tech shootings in 2007.  @shearmAdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 7, 2018
 Good Wednesday. Heres what were watching:• Teslas much-awaited fourth quarter results.• Athenahealth names Jeff Immelt as chairman.• Senate leaders reach a deal to raise spending.• Shares of Snap jumped 40 percent after it reported results.• Trump: Investors are making a mistake.• Whats next for the Wynn empire now its founder has gone?• Send us your questions for the C.E.O.s of Merck, Stitch Fix and Salesforce for Corner Office.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.The headline numbers were okay: Tesla reported a loss of $3.04 per share, narrower than the $3.20 per share that analysts surveyed by Bloomberg were forecasting. Tesla took in $3.29 billion of revenue in the fourth quarter, more or less in line with the $3.28 billion that analysts were expecting.AdvertisementBut a crucial measure of profitability disappointed. Teslas gross margin in its automotive business, which reveals the profitability of actually producing its cars, came in at 13.8 percent, below the about 15 percent that Tesla itself forecast when it reported third-quarter results.AdvertisementThe culprit? The Model 3, Teslas first mass-market car. Many of the costs associated with the Model 3 are being booked in the income statement but difficulties in producing the car mean sales are low. As a result, the gross margin on the Model 3 was negative and is expected to remain so in the first quarter of 2018, Tesla said. The company did not specify how negative the gross margin on the Model 3 was.Tesla tried to be reassuring. The company said it was on track to produce 5,000 Model 3s by the middle of 2018. The company had pushed back when it would hit this 5,000 vehicle target last month. But Tesla did not sound overly confident about achieving its Model 3 milestones. The company said:It is important to note that while these are the levels we are focused on hitting and we have plans in place to achieve them, our prior experience on the Model 3 ramp has demonstrated the difficulty of accurately forecasting specific production rates at specific points in time.Cash flow may not be as impressive as it looked. In the fourth quarter, Tesla brought in $510 million of operating cash flow, a big turnaround from an outflow of $301 million in the prior three months. How did Tesla pull this off? The company said the increase was achieved in part by doing a better job collecting the money it is owed and by reducing its inventory of finished vehicles. But the companys balance sheet showed a nearly $500 million increase in short-term liabilities in the fourth quarter. In other words, the amounts Tesla owes its customers and suppliers went up. It may be tough to keep generating cash flow in this fashion.It wouldnt be a Tesla call without something for the bulls: Elon Musk said on the call that 2018 is likely to be a very big year for Tesla and that he is optimistic Tesla will be GAAP profitable. Its not certain, but Im cautiously optimistic, Mr. Musk said.— Peter EavisSince stepping down from General Electric last year, Jeff Immelt has certainly been keeping busy. He interviewed for the Uber C.E.O. position and joined the venture capital firm New Enterprise Associates as a partner.Now he is adding chairman of a fast-growing health company to his titles.Athenahealth, a provider of electronic medical records software, announced Wednesday that it has hired Mr. Immelt as its chairman, capping a monthslong search for the position.The contextThe move adds a veteran corporate chieftain to oversee the fast-growing company, particularly as it seeks to prove that its capable of maturing.Athenahealth had been under pressure last year from Elliott Management, which disclosed a 9.2 percent stake in the company last spring and pressed for operational changes. Jonathan Bush, the companys founder and C.E.O. (and a cousin of George W. Bush) credited the activist investor with helping him realize that a shake-up was necessary.AdvertisementThe company beat earnings and revenue estimates in its fourth quarter.For Mr. Immelt, joining Athenahealth is in keeping with his interest in the health care business, a focus of his at G.E.What the principals say about the appointment• I literally feel like I just scored a decades worth of guitar lessons from Elvis, Mr. Bush said in a telephone interview.• Im convinced that this platform at Athenahealth can be one of the transformational platforms for health care, Mr. Immelt said, adding, Im a junkie for the industry.The big questionCan a founder who has run the company since its beginning take direction from an outsider? Mr. Bush said that with Mr. Immelt, the answer is yes.I feel like Im doing less marriage counseling with 12 adults, Mr. Bush said of his board, adding that Mr. Immelt would be a partner to take advice from (and occasionally whine to).An outside perspectiveWhat Jeff brings is an understanding of scale on a couple of dimensions, not only in terms of people and processes but also how you think about scaling with your partners.— Henry Ellenbogen of T. Rowe Price, one of Athenahealths biggest shareholders, said in a phone interview.— Michael J. de la MercedThomas Kaplan of the NYT reports that Senators Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and Chuck Schumer of New York, his Democratic counterpart, have struck a far-reaching agreement that would add hundreds of billions of dollars to military and domestic programs over the next two years.AdvertisementThe deal would:• raise the spending caps by about $300 billion over two years, according to a congressional aide.• increase the limit on military spending by $80 billion in the current fiscal year and $85 billion in the next year, which begins Oct. 1, the aide said.• increase the limit on nondefense spending by $63 billion this year and $68 billion next year.The bigger pictureThe deal will cause federal budget deficits to grow even larger, on top of the effects of the sweeping tax overhaul that lawmakers approved in December. But because the agreement gives both parties what they wanted most, the deficit impact appears to be of little concern. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders and Speaker Paul D. Ryan all quickly embraced it.Critics corner• Hard-line conservatives were unsparing in their assessment of the deal.• Representative Nancy Pelosi, the leader of House Democrats, said she could not agree to any budget deal that was not accompanied by a debate over legislation to protect the fate of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children, known as Dreamers.Shares of the messaging and media company surged nearly 40 percent to $19.49 in recent trading. Thats their highest level since June and well above its initial public offering price of $17 a share.The jump comes after the company reported results after the close on Tuesday. David Streitfeld of the NYT writes:Revenue was $286 million, up 72 percent from a year earlier and about $30 million more than analysts had expected. Daily users rose nine million to 187 million, the best growth in over a year. The retention rate of new Android users, a special focus for Snap, jumped nearly 20 percent over the previous year.The company lost $350 million in the quarter, or 13 cents a share, which was narrower than the loss of 16 cents that was expected by analysts. And it also contrasted with the carnage of the prior quarter, when Snap recorded a net loss that was twice the forecast.The bigger pictureThe results have helped quell some of the concerns about the companys slowing revenue and user growth in the face of increased competition from the likes of Facebook.Critics cornerRoss Sandler of Barclays: We think shares could continue to grind higher as the narrative changes from 2017s FB is going to crush SNAP to 2018s users and revenue accelerate and the platform is under-monetized. Shares are expensive (8.3x our FY19 revenue estimate), but everything is accelerating, and as weve seen repeatedly in consumer internet, these inflection points are not likely one-quarter events.Daniel Ives of GBH Insights: This eye popping top-line beat was a shocker and was a stark contrast to the overwhelming bear sentiment heading into the 4Q print and speaks to a company with strong growth prospects, albeit clear business challenges ahead to iron out in 2018. After much pain that investors have endured since SNAP went public, this quarter was finally a breath of fresh air that gives new life to the SNAP turnaround story in 2018.President Trump, who has taken credit for a rising stock market as a measure of his own success, complained on Twitter Wednesday that good (great) news in the economy led to an abrupt decline in stock prices, his first comments about the stock market since its sharp drop earlier this week.AdvertisementIn the early-morning tweet, Mr. Trump lamented that in the old days, stocks would rise on good economic news, saying Today, when good news is reported, the Stock Market goes down. Big mistake. The tweet did not elaborate on what he meant by the old days or explain further his analysis of why stocks plummeted on Friday and Monday.
            In the old days, when good news was reported, the Stock Market would go up. Today, when good news is reported, the Stock Market goes down. Big mistake, and we have so much good (great) news about the economy!        Until Wednesdays tweet, the president had been unusually silent about the stock market, which has been rocked by volatility, including a decline in the Dow Jones industrial average of almost 7 percent over two days. At one point on Monday, the Dow was down almost 1,600 points, or about 6 percent of its total value, the markets plunging at the same moment as Mr. Trump was giving a speech in Blue Ash, Ohio. It closed that day down 1,175 points.Mr. Trumps assertion that the fall was pegged to good economic news stems from Fridays job report, which showed wages beginning to rise as the economy nears full employment.— Michael D. Shear and Alan RappeportThe bigger pictureWelcome to the end of easy money, as strengthening economies lead to higher wages and tighter unemployment — and potentially to central bankers raising interest rates.President Trumps tax cut was meant to supercharge growth in an economy already doing fine. (Though Eduardo Porter notes that productivity is low and new business formation has slowed.) Economists and analysts are increasingly worried that the tax overhaul will do the opposite of what it was intended to.Steve Wynn resigned yesterday as the C.E.O. of Wynn Resorts after allegations of sexual misconduct. Those accusations have created an important test for corporate America.In recent months, many powerful men have had to step down from senior positions as they have faced accusations of sexual harassment, but none were the head of a public company like Mr. Wynn. How would the board, shareholders, regulators, customers and unions react?We now know something about the shareholder perspective: Shares in Wynn Resorts were up 7 percent in early-morning trading today. Regulators in Nevada, Massachusetts and Macau are still conducting their own investigations.AdvertisementBut the biggest unresolved question remains the board and its conduct.The board set up a committee of independent directors to carry out an investigation after the WSJ article, but it was not clear how rigorous it would be. The board did not have a track record for holding Mr. Wynn accountable.In an email exchange with me, Lucian Bebchuk, a Harvard law professor and an expert in corporate governance, asked why the board did not suspend Mr. Wynn from his position pending the investigation, or demand that he not interact with Wynn Resorts employees, a step that would have limited his ability to influence the board investigation.In fact, the board, in its statement, sounded somewhat saddened by Mr. Wynns departure, saying it had reluctantly accepted his resignation.One remaining way to assess the boards resolve will be Mr. Wynns separation agreement, which is not yet finalized.When the WSJ article was published, Mr. Wynn denied the accusations of sexual misconduct, calling them preposterous. On Tuesday he said, I have found myself the focus of an avalanche of negative publicity.It is not clear why Mr. Wynn decided to step down. It may have been pressure from gaming regulators. Customers might have been pulling back.Mr. Wynn may have wanted to preserve the value of his own stake in Wynn Resorts. But as it stands, it does not look like the board was a strong force.— Peter EavisSteve Wynn has stepped down from his $17 billion casino empire, a little over a week after allegations of forced sex and other sexual misconduct claims emerged in a WSJ investigation.AdvertisementThere had been little sense at Wynn Resorts over the last week that the man who made modern Las Vegas was on his way out:Top executives spent hours with Mr. Wynn going over plans for a new casino he would like to build in Las Vegas, according to a person familiar with the matter, while the companys general counsel hopped on a call with other executives to discuss the Vegas Strong Fund, a nonprofit formed in the aftermath of last years mass shooting on the Las Vegas Strip, according to a person familiar with the call.He also attended the companys 1,500-guest Super Bowl party on Sunday, the WSJ says.In a statement, Mr. Wynn blamed his exit on a rush to judgment that took precedence over everything, including the facts.The intrigue: The companys news release reads almost like a corporate eulogy, calling Mr. Wynn a beloved leader and visionary. So why the sudden exit? (Our colleague Peter Eavis will weigh in on DealBook this morning.)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The big questions• Do other S. & P. 500 C.E.O.s now have something to fear?• And is the Wynn empire — from Las Vegas to Macau to, soon, Massachusetts — now ripe for a takeover or breakup?Critics corner• While there are plenty of jobs for women as waitresses and croupiers, far too few rise to the levels at which they have the power to make a change, David Fickling writes. (Gadfly)• Its easy for a company in turmoil, especially one so closely associated with a celebrity founder that has effectively been forced out, to become prey, Jeff Goldfarb writes. (Breakingviews)The billionaire Los Angeles doctor joins Jeff Bezos, Sheldon Adelson and Warren Buffett after he reached a deal to buy the L.A. Times and the San Diego Union-Tribune from Tronc for nearly $500 million. The deal price includes the assumption of $90 million in pension liabilities.LAT staff have chafed at the decisions of Tronc and its chairman, Michael Ferro. More from Sydney Ember of the NYT:Many employees at The Times have of late adopted the mantra anyone but Ferro, but it is also not clear what decisions Dr. Soon-Shiong, who largely made his fortune selling generic drugs and developing a new type of cancer drug, will make as the papers owner.Separately, Tronc said it is reorganizing its Tribune Interactive business. The company said Ross Levinsohn, the publisher of the Los Angeles Times who was put on leave after National Public Radio published a report that detailed allegations of sexual harassment against him when he was at other companies, will be reinstated and named the chief executive of Tribune Interactive.The deals flyaround• SoftBank said it had spent $40 billion from its roughly $106 billion Vision Fund and Delta Fund, and that it plans to spin out its Japanese mobile unit.Advertisement• Google is expanding its New York headquarters, agreeing to buy the building across the street — which is home to Chelsea Market — for more than $2 billion. (Real Deal)• An activist investor, Blackwells Capital, urged the supermarket chain Supervalu to break itself up, and plans a proxy fight. (WSJ)As the stocks calmly glided higher in 2017, investors from hedge fund titans to day traders poured billions in to bets that volatility would continue to fall.Those wagers blew up this week.Now investors are selling the exchange company behind the trading in volatility.Shares of the C.B.O.E. Global Markets, whose volatility index facilitated those wagers, are down 17 percent since the start of the sell-off. Thursday they are off 3 percent.The reason? Concern that demand for VIX futures could drop after a blowup in some popular products that use them to bet on falling volatility in the stock market, writes MoneyBeats Ben Eisen.Critics cornerKenneth Worthington, JPMorgan Chase: Given VIX has been a key growth driver of CBOE, we also see the potential for a deterioration in CBOE valuation.Alexander Blostein, Goldman Sachs, via CNBC: While we remain optimistic around the firms longer-term growth prospects... we expect the unwind in VIX exchange-traded products (including any potential further unwind of these products) to weigh on Cboes VIX futures franchise, creating headwinds to the firms top-line growth and potentially the stocks valuation.AdvertisementBlame the VIX/machines/debt?• Analysts took a closer look at the inverse VIX trade — bets on a continued fall in the popular Wall Street volatility index that went very sour on Monday and forced a lot of selling.• Steven Mnuchin suggested yesterday that algorithms might be behind the whipsawing: I have heard from others that it has played a role, as theres more programmed trading, this tends to have volatility in both directions.• Carl Icahn said exotic investment funds and lots of leverage had made the markets a casino on steroids.Think about the deals: A Turkish franchisee of Burger King restaurants postponed its market debut yesterday, while deal makers worry that a steady stream of big mergers will dry up.• Mr. Trump called for a government shutdown if Congress did not address illegal immigration, even as lawmakers work on a two-year budget deal. John Kelly, his chief of staff, derided Dreamers who did not register for protected status.• The White House says it will explain the principles of its infrastructure plan on Monday. (CNBC)• The U.S. had a record trade deficit with China last year, potentially encouraging a tougher line from the Trump administration. (NYT)• Mr. Trump wants the Pentagon to hold a big — and rare — military parade in Washington this year. (WaPo)On one side: Brian Chesky, the home rental giants co-founder and C.E.O., who wants it kept private a while yet.AdvertisementOn the other, supporting an I.P.O. this year, according to Bloombergs unnamed sources: the C.F.O. Laurence L.T. Tosi and the Airbnb investors General Atlantic, Glade Brook Capital, TCV and TPG.More from Olivia Zaleski:Despite pledging support for Cheskys desire to keep Airbnb private, Sequoia Capital partner Alfred Lin, along with Jeff Jordan of Andreessen Horowitz, wanted to explore the possibility. In December, they asked Michael Grimes, the head of global technology investment banking at Morgan Stanley, to present options for going public, said people close to the bank.Ultimately, Mr. Tosi — who didnt see eye to eye with Mr. Chesky on other issues and generally did not fit in at Airbnb — resigned.An Airbnb spokesman denied there was ever any intent to pursue an I.P.O. this year.Bonus trivia: Mr. Tosi set up a hedge fund of sorts at Airbnb, which was responsible for 30 percent of Airbnbs cash flow last year and made about $60 million.The tech flyaround• Goldman Sachss retail arm is in talks to offer financing for Apple customers, unnamed sources say. (WSJ)• Snap bolstered revenue and user growth in the fourth quarter, and investors rejoiced. (NYT)• At the Uber-Waymo trial, Travis Kalanick kept calm and talked about his jam sesh with the autonomous-driving engineer at the center of the dispute. (NYT)• Senators criticized Uber for how it handled a 2016 data breach. Meanwhile, the company is hoping to offer air taxis by 2025, through a deal with Bell Helicopter, and is giving its U.S. riders exclusive Winter Olympics content.• A pollster hired by Facebook to track public sentiment about Mark Zuckerberg said he left after coming to believe the company wasnt good for society. (The Verge)Advertisement• European regulators are closely examining Apples bid for the music app Shazam. And Apple might give rebates to users who bought iPhone battery replacements before it discounted them.The S.E.C. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission told senators that Congress should consider expanding federal oversight of cryptocurrency trading.And Agustin Carstens, the head of the Bank for International Settlements, said central banks must be prepared to intervene, calling digital currencies a combination of a bubble, a Ponzi scheme and an environmental disaster.Mr. Carstens also argued that cryptocurrencies were freeloading on existing financial infrastructure and the legitimacy that came from being linked to it.On a positive note, while Bitcoin is at about $8,000 this morning, things could get far worse, according to Goldman Sachs:Most digital currencies are unlikely to survive in their current form, and investors should prepare for coins to lose all their value as theyre replaced by a small set of future competitors, Goldmans Steve Strongin said in a report dated Feb. 5.• Slack named a longtime executive, Allen Shim, as its C.F.O., another step on the road to a listing. (Slack)• AIG has hired Caroline Krass, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher and a former general counsel of the C.I.A., as deputy general counsel. (AIG)Crazy things can come true.— Elon Musk, after SpaceX successfully launched its Falcon Heavy rocket (carrying a cherry red Tesla roadster) from Cape Canaveral, Fla. yesterday. David Bowies Life on Mars played at the end of the webcast.• A livery driver who had written about being a casualty of the gig economy killed himself outside City Hall in Lower Manhattan on Monday. (NYT)Advertisement• Business Wire, the corporate news-release distributor owned by Berkshire Hathaway, is dealing with a cyberattack. It has caused outages for nearly a week. (WSJ)• Morgan Stanley gave the cold shoulder to Derek Jeter, co-owner of the Miami Marlins, and his banker, Greg Fleming, when asked if large brokerage clients would like to buy a piece of the team, unnamed sources said. (Fox Business)• FEMA awarded an Atlanta entrepreneur, Tiffany Brown, $156 million to supply 30 million meals to Puerto Ricans after Hurricane Maria. Only 50,000 have been delivered. (NYT)• The German carmaker Daimler publicly apologized on Tuesday after its Mercedes-Benz brand caused an outcry in China by quoting the Dalai Lama in a social media post. (NYT)• Can Christian Louboutin trademark red soles? The European Unions highest court says no. (NYT)• PepsiCo will not be making Lady Doritos. (NYT)• One of the issues that contributed to Laurent Potdevins departure as C.E.O. of Lululemon, unnamed sources say, was a multiyear relationship with a female designer. (CNBC)• Quentin Tarantino, accused by Uma Thurman of putting her life at risk by making her perform a dangerous stunt for the Kill Bill films, described it as one of the biggest regrets of his life. He disputed some details of her account. (NYT)• The supermarket Tesco is facing Britains largest ever collective equal pay claim, for a potential total of about $5.6 billion. (BBC)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 23, 2018
Good Friday. Heres what were watching:• The Dropbox I.P.O. by the numbers.• Will businesses reconsider their links to the N.R.A.?• Britain wants its cake in Brexit talks.• One reason the Treasury balked on Dodd-Franks bank resolution regime.• What happens now that China controls Anbang Insurance?• General Mills has bought the pet-food maker Blue Buffalo.Want this in your inbox every morning? Sign up here.The cloud storage company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial public offering.AdvertisementDropBox is the latest so-called unicorn, Silicon Valley startups with a private valuation of more than $1 billion, to test the public markets.AdvertisementHere are the details:Underwriters: Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank, Allen & Co. BofA Merrill Lynch, RBC Capital, Jefferies, Macquarie Capital, Canaccord Genuity, JMP Securities, KeyBanc Capital and Piper Jaffray.Exchange: NasdaqCapital structure: Class B shares will have 10 times the voting power of Class common shares. The holders of Class B shares will continue to control the company after it goes public. Last summer the FTSE Russell and Standard & Poors said most newly public companies with dual or multi-class capital structures would not be included in their indexes.Big shareholders: Drew Houston, the co-founder and chief executive, has 24.4 percent of the voting power, while venture capital firm Sequoia Capital has 24.8 percent. Mr. Houston and Arash Ferdowsi, a co-founder, have a combined voting power of 34.3 percent, which is greater than 32.3 percent for the three outside investors listed in the offering document.Executive compensation: Mr. Houstons total pay last year was more than $110 million, including more $109 million in stock awards. His base salary was $400,000. Mr. Ferdowsis total compensation was $47.3 million.The financials: In 2017, Dropbox lost $112 million but its cash flows totaled $330 million. The reasons for the difference: Dropbox had large noncash expenses, like stock compensation and depreciation and amortization.But revenue growth is slowing. Dropbox took in $1.1 billion of revenue in 2017, a 31 percent increase from $845 million in 2016. The companys revenue surged by 40 percent in 2016.Dropbox will have to convince investors that it can add new paying users at a fast clip. It had 11 million paying users in 2017, up 25 percent from 2016. But that was a significantly slower pace than the 35 percent increase in 2016.AdvertisementIn theory, Dropbox could squeeze more revenue out of each user, but it has not managed to do that in recent years. Revenue-per-user was $111.91 last year, not that different from $110.54 in 2016 and $113.54 in 2015.Valuation: Early investors in unicorns are obviously betting that their stake will be worth more when the company goes public. But Dropboxs investors might be disappointed. The Wall Street Journal is reporting that the offering will value Dropbox at $7 billion to $8 billion. That is below the implied $10 billion valuation for Dropbox when it raised money in 2014, the Journal reported.Shira Ovide at Bloombergs Gadfly uses a valuation for Box, a public company that stores and manages content in the cloud, as a guide for how much Dropbox might be worth on the stock market. Ms. Ovides conclusion is not encouraging.
            Hard truths for Dropbox: Box trades at 5x forward revenue. If Dropbox grows at the same rate as 2017 to $1.45B, then it's valuation would be ~$7 billion. Not what Dropbox wants.        — Peter Eavis and Stephen GrocerA series of companies has severed their relationship with the National Rifle Association after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., following pressure from customers. Andrew highlighted  how financial companies could limit the sale of guns in his column on Tuesday, causing debate on both sides and prompting petitions to begin circulating.On Thursday, the First National Bank of Omaha said it would not renew its agreement to issue an N.R.A.-branded Visa card. Customer feedback has caused us to review our relationship with the N.R.A., the bank said.And Enterprise, which owns two other rental car brands, Alamo and National, said it would stop offering a special discount for N.R.A. members.Andrew notes:It took real leadership for Clark Lauritzen, First National Banks president, to make this decision. Will other C.E.O.s who talk about social responsibility follow suit? Mr. Lauritzens bank is privately held by his family, so it may have been easier for him to take such a stand.Visa tried to distance itself from all of this by saying, Visa co-branded cards do not represent an endorsement by Visa of that cause or organization. But it also appears unwilling to sign on to the idea I proposed that it prevent customers from using its network to buy assault weapons, high-caliber magazines and bump stocks when it said in its statement about First National Bank ending its deal with the N.R.A., We strive to make our payment services available to all people in all places, for uses consistent with local, national, and international laws.The contextGroups have previously pushed the investment industry to dump gun stocks, with limited impact.Pension funds, including those for public-school teachers in at least a dozen states, own shares in gun makers. And major money managers such as BlackRock and Vanguard are indirectly some of the biggest holders of gun stocks through exchange-traded funds. BlackRock says it cant divest shares of a company in an index, but with $6 trillion under management, it is often effectively the biggest investor in such businesses.AdvertisementLawmakers in New Jersey moved this week to restrict the states public pensions from investing in the shares of gun manufacturers. BlackRock said it planned to reach out to weapons makers to understand their response to the shootings.More on gun controls• Two gun safety groups are joining with Tom Steyer, the billionaire Democratic activist, in a drive to register high school students to vote. (Politico)• President Trump embraced an N.R.A. position to arm some teachers. (NYT)• Democratic governors from four northeastern states joined forces to restrict the movement of illegal guns and share information about residents barred from owning firearms. (WSJ)Top members of the British government met Thursday to agree on what sort of relationship they want to have with the European Union after Britain leaves the bloc. The B.B.C. has details of the meal that was served at the meeting, held at the official country retreat of Prime Minister Theresa May: A cream of sweetcorn soup with a ham hock croquette, a Guinness short rib of Dexter beef with onions and parsnip mash, and a lemon tart with raspberry sorbet and fresh raspberries.The menu is a reminder of how often food is used to help understand Brexit.Cherries: The British governments position seems to be that it wants to abide by some European Union rules that would be advantageous for trade, while discarding others. In the Brexit debate, Britains attempts to pick and choose is commonly described as cherry-picking, and top officials of the European Union have said they wont let Britain take this approach. And for Britain to ask for three baskets of cherries is likely just too much for the European Union to stomach.Why?Cake: The rationale for not letting Britain take an à la carte approach is that it allows the country to have its cake and eat it. Underpinning the European Union is the belief that the benefits of being more closely integrated are often obtained through compromises that all member countries must make. And to supporters of the bloc, Britains desire to opt in for some things and not others corrodes that community spirit.The cake and cherries rhetoric thrown around in the Brexit debate suggest there is little middle ground between the European Union and Britain. But an alternative way to view the tensions is that so much trade goes on between Britain and the bloc, and others ties are so deep, that both sides will ultimately strike a new relationship that retains much of the existing one. As analysts at Nomura wrote earlier this week:In terms of the bespoke deal issue, we think it is not credible to say the U.K. can only take an off-the-shelf Norway / Switzerland / Turkey / Ukraine / Canada / Mexico deal. They were all bespoke deals when they were made. The idea that the worlds seventh largest economy, an ex-member and a country that will still have strong institutional, economic and geographic ties to the E.U. should not get a bespoke deal is not reasonable, in our view.And the Sun newspaper is reporting that some in European Union may actually want to throw Britain a few cherries. The Suns Nick Gutteridge, who often has fresh insights from Brussels, has details of a paper drafted by the Belgian government:The paper, produced by the Belgian government for a meeting of diplomats last week, will prove a huge boost to British negotiators and gives new insight into E.U. thinking.— Peter EavisPresident Donald Trumps America First agenda seems to have met its match in the obscure world of international financial regulation.On Thursday, we wrote about the Treasury Departments decision to retain the process for winding down a failing bank that was introduced under the Obama administration.AdvertisementA big reason the Treasury held back: The concerns of foreign regulators.As the Treasurys proposal stated, an alternative to the Obama-era wind-down is a new form of bankruptcy for large financial firms, called Chapter 14. The Treasury favors using Chapter 14 where possible, but it opted to keep the current resolution mechanism. This disappointed Republicans who want Chapter 14 to replace the the current process. But foreign regulators pushed back against a bankruptcy-or-nothing approach. Specifically, the Treasury noted, foreign regulators have expressed doubts about whether they could coordinate effectively with a United States bankruptcy judge when winding down a big American bank that has large amounts of business overseas.On that point, the Treasury could have pushed back. It could have told foreign governments that Chapter 14 judges would, in fact, be up to the task of handling international cases. Indeed, the Treasury in its paper said it expected the judges to have such competency:Further, these judges, once designated, could engage in planning and coordination exercises, including cross-border efforts (e.g., the crisis management groups discussed above).Instead, fearing higher costs for United States banks, the Treasury apparently gave the concerns of foreign regulators considerable weight and took an internationalist approach.— Peter EavisThe Chinese manufacturer has built up a $9 billion stake, or just under 10 percent, in the German automaker and parent of Mercedes-Benz.From Bloomberg:The investment in the parent of Mercedes-Benz furthers Hangzhou-based Geelys foray into the European premium automotive market and ends months of speculation. The Chinese company, controlled by billionaire Li Shufu, already owns Volvo Cars AB, whose refreshed line-up of vehicles have made it a popular alternative to the German luxury stalwarts.Geely also gained control of British sports-car maker Louts Cars last year.The government in Beijing seized control today of Anbang Insurance Group, the troubled Chinese company that owns the iconic New York hotel.The details• The Chinese insurance regulator said Anbang had violated regulations, putting into question its ability to pay claims.• A group that includes Chinas central bank, its securities and banking regulators, the countrys foreign exchange regulator and other government agencies will oversee Anbang for a year.• The takeover could be extended if Anbang fails to complete an equity restructuring and resume operations.• The companys former chairman was charged with financial crimes.The contextAnbang came under scrutiny for its opaque ownership structure and for the political ties of its former chairman as it embarked on a period of frenzied deal making.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But, Anbang is too big to fail, as an unnamed senior Anbang executive told The FT. Even though it has no real value, they will have to restructure it very carefully.AdvertisementFrom Keith Bradsher and Alexandra Stevenson of the NYT:China was shaken three years ago by a surge of money out of the country and concerns that its economy had been layering on too much debt. Anbang and the other Chinese deal makers, which had borrowed heavily to fund their shopping sprees, soon drew attention from officials. State media labeled them gray rhinoceroses — big problems that are ignored until they start moving fast.Critics corner• Quentin Webb of Breakingviews writes that the seizure is the boldest move yet in Beijings battle against financial excess, and the new precedent could be a worrying omen.• Anbangs size and entanglements are comparable to Lehman Brothers or A.I.G. before the global financial crisis, and the insurer was always going to crash and burn if left untouched, writes Nisha Gopalan in Bloomberg Gadfly. Beijings intervention deserves a round of applause, she adds.More on Chinese deal makers• Financial strains at another buyer, HNA, have prompted its subsidiary, the Irish aircraft leaser Avolon, to rewrite its bond documentation to try to reassure investors. (FT)• Fosun has acquired Lanvin, Frances oldest surviving couture house, after a fierce bidding war. (NYT)The deal values Blue Buffalo at about $8 billion and bolsters an area for General Mills, which owns brands including Cheerios, Lucky Charms and Yoplait, that has become increasingly popular: natural foods for petsThe transaction is the latest as food makers, such as Mars and Danone, seek to acquire more organic and natural brands.The deals flyaround• Standard Life Aberdeen has agreed to sell what was left of its insurance business to Phoenix Group for about $4.5 billion. (The Times of London)Advertisement• Swiss Re said it was still considering Softbanks partnership approach. (FT)• In the wake of the new tax law, many business owners are asking: Will changing a companys structure cut tax bills? (WSJ)• European banks with significant operations in the U.S. have seen multibillion dollar hits on their fourth-quarter results because of tax changes, but most say they expect to benefit from a lower rate in the future. (NYT)• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin believes policies introduced by the Trump administration will raise wages but not inflation. (Bloomberg)• Regulators are looking to ease rules that restrict the ability of companies to speak with investors before announcing plans for initial public offerings, according to unnamed sources. (WSJ)• Attorneys general in several states and a number of companies have filed lawsuits challenging the Federal Communications Commissions repeal of net neutrality rules. (Axios)• The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services dropped language from its mission statement that characterized the country as a a nation of immigrants. (NYT)• When he was working as President Trumps campaign manager, Paul Manafort lied to banks to secure millions of dollars in loans as part of a long-running money laundering scheme, according to an indictment unsealed on Thursday in the investigation of Robert Mueller, the special counsel. (NYT)Shares of the social media company tumbled 6 percent on Thursday after Kylie Jenner tweeted that she no longer opened Snapchat.AdvertisementThe tweet comes as Snap faces growing criticism from users about the redesign of its app.Critics cornerFor tech companies like Snap and Twitter, Jennifer Saba of Breakingviews argues, celebrities ought to be included as an intangible asset, to be written down when the celebrity stops being a customer — or stops being a celebrity.RelatedEvan Spiegel, Snaps chief executive, received $638 million in total compensation in 2017. (CNNMoney)The tech flyaround• Altered images used by Russians to spread disinformation ahead of the 2016 U.S. election have exposed flaws in efforts by social media companies to stop such practices. (WSJ)• British authorities are examining changes to the taxation of technology companies, potentially leading to higher bills for internet giants like Facebook and Google. (BBC)• Spotifys listing will put pressure on the music-streaming company to to reduce its reliance on music labels. (FT)• Airbnb unveiled its Plus service, which features properties that are guaranteed to meet a 100-point quality checklist. (NYT)• The lesson of the video-game company Rovios profit warning: Companies in high-risk industries with volatile earnings should think hard before going public. (Lex)What rights do shareholders get if a company goes for an initial coin offering?Heres The Informations Alfred Lee:Concerned about potential threats to share value and regulatory risks, venture capitalists are asking for rights to receive or buy cryptocurrency in the event of an offering.In some cases, several prominent investors and attorneys told The Information, venture capital firms are seeking to veto cryptocurrency offerings altogether.Related• The crash in cryptocurrencies hasnt dented the popularity of initial coin offerings. (WSJ)Advertisement• Bitcoin is at $10,234.30. (coinmarketcap.com)With their average returns dragged down by the weak performance of hedge funds, venture capital and private equity, you would think endowments would be fleeing these so-called alternative investments, which are costly and mostly illiquid, as some large pension funds have done.Thats the NYTs James Stewart, who tries to unpick the puzzle.Separately, a group of Harvard graduates has a plan to bolster the universitys straggling endowment.The Treasury Department has proposed a regulatory move that would increase the likelihood that a failing bank would end up in bankruptcy rather than going through a resolution process overseen by the government.The tweak would still keep the emergency structures introduced as part of Dodd-Frank as an option.From the NYTs Peter Eavis:Crucially, the Treasury also wants to keep the emergency government loan. But the Treasurys proposal does introduce an important and innovative change. It calls for a special type of bankruptcy regime for large financial firms, called Chapter 14. This new regime envisions having a set of specialist judges, working with regulators in the United States and around the world, who could plan for and oversee the bankruptcies of large banks.The banking flyaround• Royal Bank of Scotland reported its first annual profit in a decade, after a grueling turnaround effort. That could make it easier for the British government to sell down its stake. (LSE)• Behind John Flints bookish image lurks a ruthless streak that has helped him to rise to the role of chief executive at HSBC. (FT)• Dina Powell is talking to Goldman Sachs about returning to the firm in a global role, according to unnamed sources. (WSJ)Advertisement• Kumar Galhotra, who has been running marketing and the Lincoln brand for Ford, will take over as head of North American operations after the abrupt departure of Raj Nair. (WSJ)• Hidden in rising bond yields, there could be good news for shareholders. (WSJ)• A federal judge criticized deferred prosecution agreements, which allow companies to avoid prosecution by paying a fine. (Bloomberg)• The Japanese airbag maker Takata reached a $60 million deal to settle consumer protection claims in the U.S. (NYT)• Hewlett Packard Enterprises sales of storage and networking devices did well enough over the holiday quarter that it raised its annual profit targets. (WSJ)Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KIM SEVERSONJAN. 29, 2018
DALLAS — It had been a pretty laid-back Sunday before Monet Lerners afternoon shift at Medieval Times. She poured a cup from her Mr. Coffee and watched a little Beyond Stranger Things on Netflix. She thought a lot about acting, and did some vocal warm-ups. Then she pulled on her shiny black rain boots, said goodbye to Hoppy Joe, her rescue bunny, and headed out.Ms. Lerners drive to work takes about seven minutes in her used Nissan Sentra which, like her condominium, she never would have been able to afford if she hadnt gotten lucky and landed what for now is her dream job.She works in a replica of an 11th-century castle off the Stemmons Freeway north of downtown. It can pack in 1,000 people who pay $60.95 (less for children or anyone with a coupon) to put on paper crowns, slide behind long counters and tear apart chicken with their hands while watching a low-tech, two-hour drama that wraps elements of professional wrestling inside a Renaissance fair.As the fog from dry ice floated out over the arenas sand pit and waiters set slabs of spongy garlic bread in front of the audience, Ms. Lerner adjusted her gold cape and rode out on an Andalusian stallion bred especially for the show. She was Doña Maria Isabella, the sole ruler of a kingdom filled with battling knights.For the 34 years Medieval Times has been in business, that monarch has been a man. But the show, which draws an estimated 2.5 million customers each year, is replacing all of its kings with queens. And its peculiar brand of dinner theater — a sort of G-rated Game of Thrones — is taking on an unlikely resonance amid the national jousting over gender equality provoked by the #MeToo and #TimesUp movements.AdvertisementThe new production, with a woman wearing the crown, had its debut here last fall, then opened at the castle in suburban Chicago. It was rolled out in Lyndhurst, N.J., on Jan. 11. By years end, a queen will reign in all nine of the castles in North America.AdvertisementIn the shows old plot, the king had to fight off a challenger from another realm using a knight who bested five others in a tournament. In the new script, the queen has taken over for her late father (presumably the king from the previous show). She presides over a tournament to find the best knight in the land; drama ensues when a knight who has been acting dishonorably challenges her authority.Leigh Cordner, a former Marine who left his job as an FM disc jockey 30 years ago to join Medieval Times, directs the show. He started rewriting it a year and half before the sexual harassment accusations against the movie producer Harvey Weinstein, the chef Mario Batali and a host of other men started a national conversation.The fact that a woman is sitting on the throne in our show at the same time the gender equality movement hit is a coincidence, he said. Mr. Cordner was simply responding to audience members who kept asking why women played nothing but princesses. (On the other hand, the show still refers to its waitresses as wenches.)The joust-and-eat prototype for Medieval Times was created in 1973 by an entrepreneur who wanted to capture the tourist trade in Majorca, Spain. Since the American version began in Orlando, Fla., in 1983, almost 66 million people have attended.Here in Dallas, the production runs Thursday through Sunday; on a busy Saturday, theyll run three shows, and go practically nonstop for the nine days during spring break.Medieval Times has a campy cachet among the young, and the rich and famous. Celebrities routinely show up at the castles in New Jersey and Southern California. In Dallas, Katy Perry and about a dozen of her pals took front-row seats on a Saturday night this month.She ate everything, said Gretchen Midkiff, the Dallas marketing and sales manager.A different queen was on the throne that night. Ms. Lerner, 27, shares the role with three other actors, including Quinn Coffman, 23, a close friend who was her roommate until Ms. Lerner saved enough money to rent the condo.Both see larger implications in their coronation. If it can help empower women and we can be role models for these young women and men and show you need to respect women, then it is very fortuitous timing, Ms. Lerner said. It gives you the chills.AdvertisementBut on a recent Sunday evening in the lobby of the Dallas castle, the #MeToo movement hadnt shown up. As guests wandered around with $17 souvenir schooners of beer and watched Ms. Lerner perform some preperformance knighting ($20 extra), questions about the social significance of the new show were largely met with blank stares.One Australian tourist allowed that it was a clever idea, but many audience members said they had no inkling — or didnt care — that the show had changed.By the time the performance ended, John Freeman, 38, had formed an opinion. He didnt like it one bit. He was there celebrating his sisters birthday. It was the familys fifth visit.The king gives it a more powerful feeling, he said. You can just feel the emotions better.His son, John Jr., who is 16, said he was mainly there to watch the knights fight. His daughter, Miakoda, 13, just shrugged.His wife, Stacey Freeman, 34, thought the queen freshened things up. In my everyday life, I dont see that Im treated any different than a man, she said, but I know it happens.Ms. Freeman was more concerned when a reporter mentioned that Medieval Times is thinking of tinkering with the menu, which is exactly the same at every castle.AdvertisementWomen in corsets and skirts, and men in tights and tunics (called serfs) pour every guest a metal bowl of tomato soup that tastes like Campbells slightly more sophisticated sister. Next they hustle through their stations serving 24-ounce roasted chicken halves from deep sheet pans.Then come stubby ears of corn steamed with soy butter, sugar, paprika and a little cayenne pepper, and large russet potatoes, each cut in half and roasted in oil with a host of spices that include garlic powder.Just do not change the food, Ms. Freeman implored. Do not take my corn away. I love that corn.Frank Dameron, 60, is the director of food service for the company, which is headquartered in nearby Irving. He lost his job as chef for a hotel chain during the last recession. Medieval Times was a life saver.Even though the menu is formulaic, Mr. Dameron tries to innovate. Before the show, he was in the kitchen working on a recipe for roasted carrot and zucchini sticks. Guests arent given cutlery, so every dish has to be easy to pick up with fingers. There is no sauté station. Everything is cooked in ovens so big you could walk into them.Dessert is another potential area for experimentation. Everyone gets a slice of lemon poundcake, which arrives at the castle frozen, in cardboard boxes. Could they make the course in-house? Mr. Dameron is pondering a chocolate crepe.The menu has changed before. Cornish game hens were the original entree, but guests balked at how bony they were. The company has added some optional vegan dishes, a three-bean stew and hummus; it dropped the pork ribs after diners complained that the meal was too protein-heavy or had religious objections. Besides, the ribs were a bit of a pain: The racks varied too much in size.You dont want to be sitting next to somebody whos getting something bigger than you, Mr. Dameron said.AdvertisementThe food is popular with the staff. If there are leftovers, crew members eat chicken on benches in the locker room or walk out with foil-lined bags containing the complete meal, minus the soup and cake.Ms. Lerner is allowed to eat while perched on her throne during the show, since the story line is built around a banquet. But on this night she was already full. She has been experimenting with a paleo diet, and had eaten some spaghetti squash with tomato sauce and garlic she made in her slow cooker.In the stables, a knight, Kyle Calloway, 24, was making do with a coffee-flavored Monster energy drink as he warmed up for his star turn.Three years ago, he was a carhop at a Sonic Drive-In in Garland, Tex. He is into parkour and freerunning, in which devotees run through a city using objects like walls and park benches as a kind of athletic obstacle course. He thinks that helped him get the job.The switch to a queen hasnt made much difference, he said, except in the part of the show when she rebukes the sexist knight who defies her.You do get a huge reaction from the females in the crowd, Mr. Calloway said. But he doesnt spend much time thinking about it. All I do is eat, sleep, joust, repeat.After the show, Ms. Lerner drank some water, took off her microphone and found her Sharpie. She had to make one more trip to lobby to sign autographs and perform any last-minute knighting ceremonies in the same formal, vaguely English accent all the actors are encouraged to use.She gets paid by the hour, and doesnt mind having to do her own makeup at a sink near the toilet stalls in the locker room or to work the lobby before and after the performance. Its show business, and she has loved it as long as she can remember.AdvertisementHer father, Fred Lerner, was a stuntman, working in movies like E.T. and Die Hard. When she was a girl, he cracked his head open jumping out a window on the set of Days of Our Lives. The accident wasnt his fault, she points out, but he was never quite the same after that.Instead of attending a high school, she was home schooled so she could dedicate herself to acting and writing music. Her first credit was as a mean girl on The Bernie Mac Show.Then her dad died of lung cancer. She was 18. Her career faltered. I just collapsed, she said.She had to get out of town. Friends had moved to Dallas. Why not join them?Ms. Lerner got a job as the manager of a gelato shop. Then she enrolled in acting school, and landed roles in some well-received local productions. She worked princess parties for kids. (She still teaches vocal technique and acting to children.)A year and a half ago, she saw a notice on a school bulletin board for a princess job at Medieval Times. She was hired in an instant.There werent many guests left in the lobby on this night, so her shift ended early. She handed her dress and cloak to the woman in charge of cleaning costumes and pulled on an oversize Walmart T-shirt printed with an American flag superimposed over a white tiger.When she heard that some audience members didnt seem to grasp the larger social significance of replacing the king with a queen — and that some even wanted the king back — she seemed slightly crestfallen.Well, at least a seed has been planted, she said.Ms. Lerner grabbed the Medieval Times umbrella that management gave her as a holiday gift, punched out and said good night to the operations manager camped at a desk near the back door. She walked out into the damp Dallas night, a foil-lined bag of chicken and vegetables in her hand.Hoppy Joe was waiting.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Now, a Banquet Fit for a Queen.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Young people are radically changing how we think about violence, consent and gender. Antioch College is where much of the conversation started.By KATHERINE ROSMANFEB. 24, 2018
YELLOW SPRINGS, Ohio — When Soleil R. Sykes took an internship in Washington during her first year as a student at Antioch College, she experienced a bit of culture shock.She was working at a German think tank and noticed that both in the office and at social events, friends and colleagues were far more casual about touching one another. At a mixer before a speech, someone would tap you on the shoulder or I would tap someone on the shoulder, said Ms. Sykes, 22, now a fourth-year student majoring in political economy. At Antioch, people would have asked permission first.In 1990, Antioch College students pioneered its affirmative sexual consent policy, formulating a document now called the Sexual Offense Prevention Policy. It was mocked by much of the rest of the world. Since then, campuses across the country have caught up. Education about consent is now part of college life.Now, the current crop of pioneers at Antioch are moving the conversation beyond sex to discussions of consent in platonic touch.AdvertisementWhen Alyssa Navarrette, a third-year student who is studying anthropology and art, came home for her first visit after starting college, she was taken by surprise when her mother hugged her.AdvertisementIf you dont want to be touched and your mom wants to hug you, you should be allowed to say no, Ms. Navarrette said. Its about having autonomy over your own body.Its a framework for how to engage with everyone, on every level, said Angel Nalubega, a 22-year-old fourth-year history major and a dorm resident adviser. It helps promote respect for all people in the community.The schools historical mascot is the Antioch Radicals. On campus, friends ask permission before giving hugs. Personal space is discussed in class as an often encroached-upon right. At the same time, as with many in their generational cohort, some students are giving full expression to their gender identities, whether those identities are fixed or fluid. People introduce themselves with their preferred pronouns (Im Katie and I use they/them/their).When people get hurt, the community springs into action. Students say that what they and their predecessors have built here isnt perfect, but that the culture is as close to an ideal as theyve seen.In a lot of ways, Antioch College exists in a bubble. With a current enrollment of 135 students, it is situated in a small liberal town that is a bluish dot in a largely Republican area of Southwest Ohio. Its first president was the education reformer and politician Horace Mann; Coretta Scott King is among the famous graduates.But students regularly venture outside this cocoon. Antiochs cooperative educational experiences are a cornerstone of the curriculum here, and they compel students, at least four times before graduating, to go on co-op, taking on 10-week jobs and internships, usually in places far from Yellow Springs, often arranged or provided by Antioch alumni.If you choose to permeate the bubble yourself and visit Antioch, you will be asked to sign a statement of understanding that you will abide by a policy that requires enthusiastic verbal consent during every stage of every sexual interaction. (Reporters are also required to sign the statement.)AdvertisementAntioch was founded in 1850 but was closed by an umbrella organization in 2008, in part because of financial issues. Alumni worked to gain the colleges independence and reopened in 2011. When it did, it guaranteed free tuition to its first four enrolling classes.Students including Marcell Vanarsdale, 22 and now a fourth-year student, arrived at Antioch mostly unaware of the colleges consent policy. I think my parents raised me pretty well and taught me respect for people and respect for women, but learning about the S.O.P.P. is definitely the first formal education about consent I ever got, said Mr. Vanarsdale, who grew up just outside of Chicago and is studying history and performance.He attended several sessions at orientation devoted to the policy, including one led by Planned Parenthood educators, another about the history of sexual relations. It was different, for sure, he said. The biggest pull was moving away from the idea that no means no and toward yes means yes.In its most updated form, the S.O.P.P. is an eight-page document that spells out the tenets of affirmative consent. In each stage of a sexual interaction, consent must be verbally requested and verbally given, the policy says — and silence conveys a lack of affirmative consent.It prohibits the sending of unsolicited sexual text messages and requires partners to disclose sexually transmitted infections. It also dictates that people under the influence of drugs and alcohol cannot give consent. So, strictly speaking, any drunk hookup would be found to be in violation of the policy if one of the parties filed a complaint.The S.O.P.P. is Antioch Colleges formal attempt at ending sexual violence and sexual harassment while fostering a campus culture of positive, consensual sexuality, it reads.When the policy was enacted in the early 1990s, it became the subject of a lot of media attention, including a blistering skit on Saturday Night Live in 1993 starring Shannen Doherty (major in Victimization Studies) and Chris Farley (charged in three hazing deaths) as Antioch students competing in a game show hosted by Phil Hartman called Is It Date Rape? (The Jeopardy!-like categories included I Paid for Dinner and Halter Top.)Before a national audience, the school and the women who created the policy were portrayed as endemic of a politically correct culture run amok that was trying to desexualize sex.AdvertisementThe reality may be quite the opposite. Antioch recently extended its Sex Week into a month. We wanted to bring even more pleasure-based sex education and gender-based education, said Iris Olson, a 2017 graduate, who is studying for a masters degree in public health at Boston University and uses the pronouns they/them/their. Mx. Olson, 23, who prefers that gender-neutral honorific, helped organize Month of Sex events.During them, programming has included screenings of ethical pornography, a Kiss and Tell story-sharing event, Dildo Bingo, a ropes-and-bondage workshop and an Antioch traditional event that students attend dressed to express themselves along the gender continuum.A sex positive culture has everything to do with the S.O.P.P., Mx. Olson said. Being able to talk to a partner or multiple partners about what you like, what you would like to experiment with — to have a negotiation whether its about B.D.S.M. or extra cuddling, whatever gets you going — those discussions are what make sex wonderful. You have more control of the situation.The colleges administration sees this all as a big selling point for the school. Our students and our alumni have always been very involved with activism, and social justice is in our DNA, said Mila Cooper, Antiochs vice president for diversity and inclusion and the director of the Coretta Scott King Center. Theres a heightened awareness of sexual violence and sexual assault right now with the MeToo movement, but I do think Antioch has been involved in these conversations long before. Its not just a policy, you know, its part of the education and the culture here.We talk about taking up space in a lot of different ways, said Toni Jonas-Silver, 23 and a fourth-year student, while sipping tea at the Emporium, a coffee bar and wine shop that is something of an off-campus commissary during the day. Even in these conversations in class, some people have the tendency to talk so much that it diminishes the chance that other voices will be heard. Its related to people who have more privilege and are more used to being encouraged to take up that space.The discussions connect back, sometimes directly, to the policy. The S.O.P.P. is a reminder of who we are and what were here to do, said Michelle De León, 23, a second-year student. It lets us say, Hey, youre in a community and youre in a space with other people and be mindful of the space youre taking up. Women, nonbinary people, queer people, people of color — were not living in a culture that gives them space. We live in a culture where so many are penetrated physically, emotionally and verbally by anyone at any moment.In the media, its been misunderstood, many Antiochians say. People think its a harsh policy, Ms. Nalubega said. But its not. Its saying that when you do touch a person, your touch is exciting and welcoming to that person.Theres an idea that it has to be very unromantic and very contractual and thats not true at all, said Jeanne Kay, who was an Antioch student and now is working for the schools fund-raising division as the annual giving manager. You can learn to ask in ways that are sexy and romantic and say, Is this O.K.? You want to continue to do this? Can I touch you there? These are all thing that can enhance the experience instead of killing the buzz.AdvertisementStill, there is a learning curve. Ms. Navarrette, for one, was not used to having honest conversations about sex. It can be especially difficult for people of color who are from cultures where women and girls are not supposed to talk about sex, she said. It means youre a bad girl.Many students have come to embrace it as a good thing. At first, it feels almost unnatural and abrupt to say, Hey, can I do this? Can I proceed with this? Mr. Vanarsdale said. But then, you see, at least for me, its not just what you say but how you say it, getting more comfortable with the language. And I think it takes out a lot of the pressure on both parties when asking is involved and clarity is confirmed.Enforcement controls how effective a policy can be. The tiny size of the student body is one impediment to ideal outcomes, students say. News of an S.O.P.P. violation being reported to a student community representative or a member of the staff or faculty spreads very quickly. Its pretty much guaranteed that the person reporting the violation will share mutual friends with the person theyre citing. This can create a real strain on student social dynamics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.There is also a sense that the administration does not always respond as students think it should. From the time the school reopened to two summers ago, there were about eight to 10 S.O.P.P. cases, said Malka Berro, a 21-year-old fourth-year student. Two had administration repercussions. Our perception is that sometimes people dont follow through.But the reality is sometimes more complicated. Roger D. Stoppa, the director of public safety at Antioch, said that because a reported violation of the S.O.P.P. is, by definition, an unwanted act in the context of a sexual interaction, it must also be considered a violation of Title IX, the federal law that forbids sex discrimination within any entity that receives federal funding.And federal guidelines prohibit officials from revealing private details of an investigation. Were sworn to confidentiality. We cant say that we found somebody responsible, and this is the consequence that they got, said Mr. Stoppa, who is also the schools deputy Title IX coordinator. When they dont see anything tangible happen, they just think, Oh my God, I reported and nobody did anything about it. Well, we go through a very thorough process.So the student community may ultimately take matters of enforcement into its own hands.In the summer of 2017, a student group organized a concert featuring several local bands, that would take place at the on-campus amphitheater. Nonstudents from beyond Yellow Springs attended. They were asked to sign the document stating that they understood and would respect the S.O.P.P. Several of the men refused to sign; they were approached by students who asked them to sign the document or to leave. They left.There is a stigma to not signing, Ms. Berro said.In late 2014, Todd Sanders, now 26, was called to meet with a dean because two S.O.P.P. violations had been filed against him. I had gotten very active in my romantic life when I was at Antioch, said Mx. Sanders, who is gender-fluid and uses they/them/their pronouns. I was having difficulty managing being polyamorous. Alcohol became a factor.The dean read a list of complaints, Mx. Sanders said. Some of them came as a surprise, but not all. Mx. Sanders said they and the dean decided they should leave school.AdvertisementMx. Sanders left Yellow Springs for a while but then returned, moved into an apartment in town and got a job at a restaurant. At another meeting, the dean told Mx. Sanders that they were banned from campus, Mx. Sanders said. The rules were not always closely observed. I remember once I was walking with a few people, we stopped right at the edge of campus, and someone saw me and got really mad at me, they said.Word of Mx. Sanderss behavior had spread around campus. At first, some students werent sure how to react because Mx. Sanders was well regarded as an activist.At Antioch, we focus so much on inclusion and creating space for marginalized people on campus that I think what has formed is a hierarchy based off of marginalization, Mr. Vanarsdale said. It gives people who have this marginalization attached to their identity some form of power. Todd wasnt the archetype of what we think toxic masculinity would look like. He wasnt a heterosexual cis male.Antiochians take their culture of consent seriously, and students were disturbed to know someone living in their midst was not living by the S.O.P.P. Students began to approach Mx. Sanders, asking for apologies or acknowledgments that the consent rules were being flouted. Mx. Sanders didnt seem to be chastened.In a manner that perhaps can only take place when an entire community buys into a culture of consent, the community took action.There was a meeting of people who have been friends with this person or who had sex with this person or who are the victims, and we all got together and decided we had to do something about it, Ms. Nalubega said. So when we would see him at Birch or at the Emporium or at a party, we would say to him, You cant be in this space.By the spring of 2015, it had become more difficult to live in Yellow Springs, Mx. Sanders said. There was a posting on a student Facebook page saying I was a rapist and people should avoid me. That was a difficult thing to read. Within a month, I left. I felt like I had been run out of town on a rail.Contemporaries of Mx. Sanders said they tried to compel Mx. Sanders to acknowledge their missteps. This is someone who was repeatedly confronted and didnt change their behavior and then was ultimately not tolerated in the community, said someone who knew Mx. Sanders but did not want to speak publicly about the matter.AdvertisementMx. Sanders is now committed to seeking affirmative consent in sexual interactions. I dont blame anyone else, Mx. Sanders said. I need to be accountable.In the fall of 1990, an Antioch student reported a date rape to the deans office. The administration promised her that the male student would be removed from the dorm in which they both lived. When he was not removed, a group came together at the Womyns Center to plot for change.One of the women activists was April Wolford, now in information technology services at the University of California, Berkeley. She was an elected representative to a community council. She thought it was important to codify the demands — to create a policy for the administration to formally adopt.The first version we wrote was very punitive, Ms. Wolford said. It was called the Antioch College Sexual Offense Policy, and it began: A sexual offense, as defined herein, committed by a community member will not be tolerated by the Antioch community. If there is reasonable cause to believe that any person has committed such an offense and that person is considered a threat to the community, that individual must be promptly removed from the campus.Sexual offenses were defined as forced physical penetration, any non-consensual physical contact found to be sexually threatening or offensive and other incidents of persistent sexual harassment.But what we learned from that is that wasnt the focus of what the community wanted, Ms. Wolford said. We wanted to prevent these assaults. As young people, we didnt have the tools.So they began to discuss consent. The challenge was, How do you get consent in a situation where everyone is so nervous? Ms. Wolford said.So the students created not just a policy but an educational curriculum of lectures, discussion groups, presentations from Planned Parenthood and skits in which actors would work through different scenarios where consent should be taught. It was so owned by students, it was created by students, and students created education around it, Ms. Wolford said. The school administration adopted the policy with enthusiasm in the winter of 1991.AdvertisementWhen Louise Smith, a professor of performance who graduated in the class of 1977, first came back to Yellow Springs to join the faculty, the S.O.P.P. was newly in place but already a prominent part of the zeitgeist, she said. Ms. Smith had come back to Antioch from New York City, where she was entrenched in the downtown performance scene. She thought the policy was too based in political correctness. I was an eye roller, she said.But over the years — including a stint as dean of community life in 2011, during which she worked with students to remove S.O.P.P. language about rape culture in favor of sexual violence, which she hoped would be less alienating and accusatory toward men — she has changed her mind.I have very little patience with the notion that something like this isnt needed, she said. I dont feel the policy was meant to stop us from shaking hands without consent. What it does do is sort of say, Your body is your body and if you dont want something to happen to it or with it, it shouldnt. And then that can be applied into every social interaction.Andy Janecko, 19 and a second-year student, wants to create another policy. Im really wanting to write a separate policy, that brings consciousness about consent a little bit further, said Mx. Janecko, who uses they/them/their pronouns. Were missing this whole component of consent in general, teaching people not to touch people at all if you dont have their verbal consent, they said, suggesting that it could be called the Nonconsensual Contact Prevention Policy.One reason for the policy, they said, is to protect against people casually touching people who dont like to be touched or who have disabilities that make unexpected touch painful or unsettling.Im also looking for it to help people get justice or get acknowledgments at least for microaggression, said Mx. Janecko, currently on co-op in San Francisco, working at a mime theater. They hope to get to work on this next evolution when they return to campus this spring.A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page ST1 of the New York edition with the headline: Thank You for Asking.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Driving converted delivery trucks, Roadtreks, vintage RVs, skoolies and the odd Prius, a few thousand gather in defiance of consumerist society.By PENELOPE GREENJAN. 31, 2018
QUARTZSITE, Ariz. — Road Virus is a 32-foot-long matte black skoolie that is the rolling home and bookstore of Emily Black, 35, a former librarian and an alumna of a Bay Area tech start-up, and Sade Black, 27, a musician and writer. From it, the couple sells horror, science fiction, erotica and other so-called fringe lit, along with oddities like raven skulls, preserved scorpions and postcards sent by Charles Manson. For the last month, they have been parked here in front of Readers Oasis Books, an idiosyncratically stocked emporium presided over by Paul Winer, a sinewy former rock n roller otherwise known as the naked bookseller because he wears only a sock over his private parts.Skoolies are school buses that have been turned into houses on wheels, and the Blacks, who bought theirs through Craigslist for $7,500 and have been on the road for a year, are new members of a sprawling and disparate tribe of vehicular nomads that flock to this dusty desert town each winter. They come for the boondocking — nomad vernacular for free or low-cost camping — on the thousands of acres of federal land that are adjacent to the place, and for the community, particularly that found at a two-week-long rally called the Rubber Tramp Rendezvous.Organized by Bob Wells, a 62-year-old van-dwelling evangelist who has been living on the road for over two decades, the RTR drew just 45 people when it began in 2010. This year, Mr. Wells said, rangers estimated the crowd at over 3,000. Often called a Burning Man for retirees, the RTR is starting to skew younger, at least by anecdotal measures.Melody Tilton, a 31-year-old massage therapist, said she had been inspired by Mr. Wellss YouTube videos to take to the road last fall with her husband, Kyle, also 31, who had worked in information technology, in a white 97 Roadtrek, though she hankered for a skoolie. (Roadtreks are easier to park.) They sold their house in Minnesota, and are running on the proceeds. I had been looking for ways to be a full-time hobo, Ms. Tilton said. I thought you had to be retired.AdvertisementCommitted nomads come to share tips on solar power, stealth overnights in parking spots on city streets, van conversion, mail, hygiene, finances and low-cost dental care, which can be found over the border in the Mexican town of Los Algodones, an hour and a half away. Aspirational nomads come to test the waters, in rented mini-Winnies and camper vans. And they come to meet Mr. Wells, a celebrity here. With his abundant gray hair, lustrous beard and mellifluous voice, he is an amiable philosopher-elder of the road: Bruce Chatwin in a GMC cargo van.AdvertisementTwenty-three years ago, Mr. Wells went through a bitter divorce that upended his finances. He couldnt afford to rent an apartment on his own; with his last $1,500 in savings, he bought a box van and moved into it, stealth-parking on the streets of Anchorage, where he worked at a Safeway and where his ex-wife and two sons lived. The first nights, he cried himself to sleep. I came into the van life kicking and screaming, but I fell in love with it, he said.The pressures of sticks-and-bricks living, as nomads call traditional dwellings — the mortgage, the taxes, the maintenance — currently holds no allure for Mr. Wells. The Titanic is going down, he said, alluding to the general state of the economy and environment, and this is a lifeboat. This is a hope, a promise of a better, more meaningful life.Radical simplicity is his credo. From his YouTube channel, Cheaprvliving, which has over 120,000 subscribers, and his website of the same name, he dispenses practical advice such as how to live on $500 a month (Mr. Wells has a pension from his years at Safeway), or tips for camping with pets, along with musings on the psychological and environmental benefits of road life.Some tutorials are winning combinations of the pragmatic and the esoteric. Pooping in a Car, Van or RV is one of his most popular videos, with more than 230,000 views. As for the method, suffice it to say that Mr. Wells is extremely fastidious and has perfected a bucket system that is a concert of Howard Hughes-like moves involving two garbage bags, antibacterial wipes, gel alcohol and water. Were out here to be comfortable and happy, he says in the video, not to prove how tough we are.The road from Quartzsite to the site of this years RTR was pocked with muffler-scraping craters. (End Arizona Dept. of Transportation Maintenance, read a helpful sign.) Most nomads left the rutted tarmac for the dusty shoulder, bucketing along until they hit a dirt track. It wasnt easy to discern the shape and scope of the rally, or figure out where it actually began.Converted delivery trucks, Roadtreks, vintage RVs, skoolies and even a few cars (Mr. Wells likes to say that those who are living in Priuses are the saints of the community) were camped along the washes at decorous intervals from each other, in distinct contrast to the more conventional RV campgrounds that also surround Quartzsite, where gleaming Winnebagos park nose to tail and side by side.Many attendees did arrange themselves by category, however. There were seven vintage step vans (delivery trucks you can stand up in) parked along a wash at the invitation of Seven Grey, a shy 52-year-old former publisher who had chosen this particular vehicle type for its interior dimensions (he is just under 6-foot-6).AdvertisementOne afternoon, he and Giuseppe Spadafora, 34, a former video editor who has been on the road for over a decade serving tea at no charge and a manifesto of anticonsumerism that is a continuing social experiment he calls Free Tea Party, held a book swap and social. Mr. Spadafora has been traversing the country in a white 1989 Econoline he has outfitted like a bohemian wooden boat, with snug banquettes covered in satiny-damask pillows. Mr. Grey is helping him put together a manual about eco-friendly mobile living systems, using his vegetable-oil-fueled tea bus as an example.The Rubber Tramp Rendezvous agora was a centrally located patch of chalky ground ringed by creosote bushes and giant saguaro. There were seminars on creating YouTube videos; a tin can Q. and A., and show-and-tells of favorite gadgets. Two tarps were neatly arrayed with books, clothing, housewares and personal care products. Attendees could leave unwanted goods from decluttering their rigs or pick up needed items for free.A bulletin board was festooned with notices for, variously, the Fabulous RVing Women (FRVW on Facebook); a lost cat; entreaties for help installing solar power; a self-defense class for women; invitations to caravan to Los Algodones or Slab City, the outsider community on an abandoned Navy base in Californias Badlands that is a de rigueur stop for this set; and a beading class at the RTR art camp, which was two trestle tables strewn with art supplies set out by Sue Soaring Sun, a 62-year-old artist. One sign printed on green construction paper read: Wanted: RTR Kindness & Generosity Stories.One afternoon, the faint smell of charcoal briquettes wafted over the crowd, sunburned men and women planted in camp chairs and trying to keep snuffling dogs not used to leashes to heel. As Mr. Wells was extolling the virtues of camping above 7,000 feet, a late visitor wondered why.He doesnt like to get hot, one woman whispered.A man raised his hand. Im an introvert, he said softly. Youre an introvert. So what are we doing here?Mr. Wells nodded and asked all the introverts in the crowd to raise their hands. Mostly everyone did.Good question, Mr. Wells said. Why have we driven thousands of miles to be together? Its because we need each other so much. Even the most introverted of us knows that. Were looking for like-minded people who will let us be our authentic selves. Together, at a distance. Humans are funny things. Dont worry. The RTR is going to end, and youll be alone again soon.These days, Mr. Wells does break his solitude occasionally to camp with Carolyn Higgins, 50, a two-year road veteran who left her marketing business in San Francisco and is now, like Mr. Wells and others, a YouTube star. They met last summer, and their bond — much remarked upon — has made them the mother and father of the movement.Are you dating? a woman in the crowd asked.They are not, though they like to tease their audience.AdvertisementYouTube is the glue and engine for the road-bound. Stars like Nomadic Fanatic (a full-time RVer who travels with his cat, Jax, and has 130,000 subscribers) provide inspiration and technical advice, along with a forum for a tribe that can feel isolated from each other and society. It is also a revenue model, albeit a modest one.This is a community that has no relation to the social media phenomenon known collectively as #vanlife, for the Instagrammable adventures of attractive young white couples in their atmospheric vintage VW vans, doing yoga, surfing and accruing sponsorship from the makers of hipster products. (Though the odd festival fan will show up at the RTR, having seemingly confused Quartzsite with Coachella, only to be confounded by the lack of swag and services, like the guy who came two years ago and complained on an online forum that there was no sound stage or bathhouse.)The Rubber Tramp Rendezvous is a different kind of van-dweller mecca, said Jessica Bruder, whose 2017 book, Nomadland: Surviving America in the Twenty-First Century, followed a small posse of retirement-age women forced into the van life through economic hardship, part of a new — and growing — labor force of older Americans working seasonally as campground hosts and Amazon stockers.The world stigmatizes people who live differently, Ms. Bruder said. The RTR is full of kindred spirits, like a non-blood family. People there feel heard and understood and valuable. There can be a sense of isolation out there in the world. When they get to the RTR, it melts away.While van culture may be growing because more and more people are caught between the Scylla and Charybdis of flat wages and rising home prices, Ms. Bruder added, I also think people are frustrated by consumer culture and what they are supposed to want. People who are constrained by economics are also saying, I can opt out. I think that can be tremendously liberating.For her research, Ms. Bruder bought a white GMC Vandura, named it Halen, for the 1980s hair band, and learned to correct for its sideways drift on the highways. Despite aching shoulders from keeping it on course, she loved being out in her van, she said. There was one day when we were driving in a caravan, like horses galloping across the desert. I was following a 70-year-old woman named Swankie, and we were on our way to see an ancient earthwork in a petrified forest. My heart was in my throat. That sense of constant motion on the road, when everything feels new. The mythos of the desert landscape. It got me.Ms. Higgins, who cashed in her 401(k) to buy a balky RV named Matilda after a month hiking on the John Muir Trail erased any lingering attachment she had to the apartment she was renting for $1,600, now has over 50,000 YouTube subscribers: Patrons who pay from $7 a month get extra content.I think a lot of women my age have a feeling theyd like to take control, Ms. Higgins said, noting that her videos seem to have struck a chord. Maybe they are recognizing that mainstream society doesnt feel safe anymore. For many of us, weve been fed the lie that we have to have the heels, the makeup. That we arent complete without a man. Weve been fed the lie we have to get married and take care of everyone. I think women are saying, What about me?AdvertisementPerhaps more of an introvert than Mr. Wells, Ms. Higgins has struggled with her YouTube fans, who crowd her at campsites — Imagine it being Halloween for two weeks straight, she said — clamor for her autograph and send her marriage proposals. At the RTR, she was parked so far away from the action that this reporter nearly got lost among the washes trying to make her way out. But Ms. Higgins gamely led a caravan of nine rigs with her to the Womens March anniversary rally in Las Vegas, and to a meet-and-greet with Mr. Wells at the RTR.This event has changed my life, she said then, tearing up. Im very proud that I found my voice, and that it matters.On the final Saturday night, the RTR had lost much of its crowd, but those remaining made a merry bonfire of the small cardboard van built by art camp volunteers, an RTR tradition. (Midweek, someone called the Bureau of Land Management rangers, warning that there was a plan to burn an actual van.) The mock van was about knee-high, and in its window was a Sharpie portrait of Mr. Wells and his dog, Cody. When it burned, the group sang the RTR anthem, to the tune of the Willie Nelson hit On the Road Again.Rubber tramps againLike a band of Gypsies we go down to QuartzsiteWell see Bob againWell share our tales at campfires in the nighttimeWarm fire timeThe Blacks and their Road Virus missed last years RTR by a few weeks, and they vowed to return. They had spent the early part of the summer in Maine; by late September, they were in the Mojave Desert at the Wasteland Weekend, which is like Burning Man but with less drugs and fancy people, Mr. Black said. Next month, they will head to Sacramento to meet friends they made there.We follow good weather, we meet fascinating people, we sell some books, Ms. Black said. This is about the happiest Ive ever been.A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: On the Road Again, And Again, and ….  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ZACH SCHONBRUNJAN. 26, 2018
GENEVA, Ohio — When strangers approach Robert Bobroczkyi, as they often do, the first question is almost always, How tall are you? Lately, he has been responding with typical teenage snark.Five-eleven, he might say, making up a figure nearly two feet off the real answer.Forgive him. Though his voice rumbles forth like boulders down a mountain, and each of his hands is the size of an iPad, and he could gaze down upon the crown of the head of any N.B.A. player today, Bobroczkyi, 17, still has the deprecating wit and trademark eye roll of a sophomore in high school. Because that is what he is.He likes horror movies, science-fiction novels, old-school music and NBA 2K. He sleeps wherever and whenever possible. He taught himself to play the piano from YouTube clips. In English class, he was asked to give a presentation about King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table. It helped, he joked, that he had seen the Indiana Jones movies.And then he steps on a basketball court, where he can reject 3-point attempts from just outside the lane. He doesnt need to be anywhere near the ball to be an intimidating factor. All he needs is to grab the rim, with both hands, while standing flat-footed.This is life at 7 feet 7 inches, with the world at your size 17 feet. If Bobroczkyi entered the N.B.A. tomorrow, he would join his Romanian countryman Gheorghe Muresan and Muresans contemporary Manute Bol, who also played at 7-7, as the tallest men to play in the league. But unlike the hulking Muresan and the shot-blocking Bol, Bobroczkyi is modeling his far-from-developed game off that of Knicks forward Kristaps Porzingis, who at 7-3 has redefined how a player of that length can handle the nimbleness and fluidity of the modern game.AdvertisementBobroczkyi is also learning that the one thing no coach can teach — height — will not guarantee him a future in pro basketball. He developed scoliosis at a young age, which gives him lower-back trouble, and though he has stopped growing, his hips have been left misaligned by several inches. And then there is his weight.AdvertisementEating enough to fuel his eight-foot wingspan and gain the muscle needed to sustain a career is a daily ordeal. That is one reason he left Europe to come here to the Spire Institute, a 750,000-square-foot facility on 170 acres in the solitude of Ohio wine country. Aside from the basketball court, with floorboards ripped from Quicken Loans Arena (where the N.B.A.s Cleveland Cavaliers play), and the health-conscious cafeteria, Spire is also close to the Cleveland Clinic, which assigned a dietitian to assist with Bobroczkyis nutrition.The goal is to get his weight, 195 pounds, to rise by a pound per month. Doing so requires consuming a diet of 4,500 calories per day. Bobroczkyi eats slowly, and sometimes uncomfortably. At his school, nearby Grand River Academy, the plastic chairs in the cafeteria are of normal height, which means his legs fold underneath his seat, his ankles lying flat against the floor. Eating a bowl of miso soup this week meant lifting the bowl to his lips; for the liquid to travel all the way up there by spoon would be a long and shaky journey.Bobroczkyi said the day he met Porzingis, while visiting a basketball academy in Seville, Spain, was the first time in a long while that he stood eye-to-eye with somebody other than his father. Porzingis was 7-foot-1 at the time. Bobroczkyi was 14.Bobroczkyi was always tall, even when he was little. He passed six feet before his ninth birthday. He dunked at age 12. His father, Zsigmond, is 7-1, and his mother, Brunhilde, a former volleyball player, is 6-1. Still, their boys size raised concerns. At the Cleveland Clinic, doctors ruled out Marfan syndrome, a genetic condition of the connective tissue that can lead to life-threatening heart trouble. Other tests over the years eliminated other, potentially worrisome, conditions.We made all kinds of tests through the years to ensure everything was all right, the father wrote in an email. We made them everywhere, every year, once including Rome, Seville, Washington, Vitoria, Budapest. Everything was fine.In Bobroczkyis hometown, Arad, in western Romania, he was known mostly because of his father, who had played professionally with the Romanian clubs Elba Timisoara and West Petrom Arad, and even with Muresan on Romanias national team, forming what might have been the worlds tallest frontcourt at the time. But he began to garner attention when, in middle school, he surpassed his fathers height.He went to Italy to play for an amateur club, A.S. Stella Azzurra, but took a year off from basketball to work on his frame, which was struggling to support his long limbs. Around that time, Bob Bossman, director of the basketball program at Spire, discovered a YouTube video of Bobroczkyi coolly knocking down 3-pointers and making passes.I saw he has potential, Bossman said. You dont get to work with a kid like that often.AdvertisementBossman reached out to Bobroczkyi on Facebook. The conversation began: Bossman told him about the facilities, the chance to play on a team with some of the nations top recruits, to attend a small boarding school down the road, to practice at an Olympic training site. When Bobroczkyi and his family visited the campus in 2016, he packed a bag and did not return to Italy.He first lived in a dorm at Grand River, a 187-year-old preparatory academy with 80 students. School officials brought in an eight-foot bed for his room and custom desks in his classrooms. He has since moved into a house with his basketball teammates at Spire; the bed could not fit in the door there, he said, so Bobroczkyi props two suitcases at the end of his twin with a pillow on top to support his feet.You have to get used to it, he said of his height, a sizable understatement given the challenges that come with it. Doorways are perpetually too low. Pants need to be custom-ordered. Shirts are XXXXXL.His team once flew him to Hartford for a game, but forgot to reserve a seat for him in an exit row.Never flying again, Coach, Bobroczkyi told Bossman when he landed. On the bus ride back to Ohio, he sat in the back row, his legs splayed out down the aisle.Yes, Rob! Thirties! Youre on them!The voice of Brandon Strausser, the strength and conditioning coach at Spire, echoed around the cavernous performance center. Bobroczkyi lay on a bench with 30-pound dumbbells on either side of him, ready for his first rep of 10 presses.Strausser and John Wallace, Spires performance director, had tailored a workout plan for Bobroczkyi that was like nothing they had ever attempted. It was arguable that nobody had created anything like it. After all, whose body could compare?Porzingis was 6-9 at age 17. Muresan did not reach his playing height until age 20. Bobroczkyi even has a couple inches on the former N.B.A. center Shawn Bradley, who was 7-5 in high school.AdvertisementHis experience then, navigating the harsh and bewildering climb to maturity, is truly singular. He cannot fade into the background of his high school hallways, much as he might want to try. In his algebra class, the teacher Matthew Pavlovic asked students to pair up for an assignment — a difficulty for Bobroczkyi, whose elevated desk is set off slightly from the others. He shuffled it across the room with loud screeches.His father used to tell him that his height could be a blessing or a curse. It was up to him to decide. But asked if he would like to grow any taller, Bobroczkyi shook his head. Im done, he said. I think I grew enough.When Bobroczkyi arrived in Ohio, his flexibility was, Strausser said, rough. His lower back was hurting. Walking could look laborious. He moved adequately on the court, but only in short bursts. Hes not slow, Bossman said. Its just about how many times he can get up and down in a matter of a game or a few minutes.So while teammates were doing squats and charting their records in the bench press on a blackboard above the entrance, Bobroczkyi lay on the turf, spread his arms, bent his knees and twisted his torso, meticulously cycling through a 40-minute routine of stretches. His weight lifting program is mostly body resistance, using bands and straps, but when he finally got onto the bench, under those 30-pound weights, Strausser was delighted.He held a spreadsheet in front of him with almost 50 different exercises designed for Bobroczkyi.As much as we can of each movement, in every single movement category that we can think of, is literally on here, Strausser said. Because he needs it.It was a big deal at Spire when, in a practice not too long ago, Bobroczkyi dunked. This might sound like celebrating a sunrise. But it was a sign that his confidence was growing.I mean, I like when I do it, but I also find that I still dont have enough to push guys around the rim to dunk on them, he said. Thats a big part of it. But once I start to gain some pounds, that should start to happen more often.At a recent practice, Bobroczkyi ambled around the sideline, spinning a basketball on his finger and dribbling it through his flagpole legs. He was relegated to being mostly an observer as his teammates raced up and down the court in fast-break drills and three-man weaves.AdvertisementHe had played 12 minutes of game action over the weekend, the coach, Dave Briski, explained, and he needed time to recover. Hopefully by next year he can play some major minutes, Briski said. If we can get 10, 15 minutes a game out of him next year, I think thats a lot.Before Bobroczkyi can entertain the thought of becoming the next Porzingis, or even of earning a scholarship to a Division I college, he needs time to adjust to the speed of the American game. Bossman and others contend that his time on the court is productive, but limited.Hes so skilled for his height, his teammate Julian Dancy said. Ive never seen a guy that can shoot 3s like him, especially the college 3 already.After dinner one night this week — breaded chicken, turkey tetrazzini, green beans and two helpings of rice pudding — Bobroczkyi rode the shuttle with his teammates to the house they share near campus, then sat on his bed. Below posters of Porzingis and Dirk Nowitzki, his face lit up when he heard the news that Porzingis had been named to the N.B.A. All-Star team.He had been too shy, he admitted, to say anything the first time they met. But now, he said, he would relish another chance.What would he ask? He paused to think.Id like to ask him what advice he would give me, Bobroczkyi said, finally. About anything. Life, basketball, everything.His voice trailed off. He nodded, said yeah, and went back to folding his laundry for the next day.An earlier version of this article contained a picture caption that misidentified the place where Robert Bobroczkyi trains. It is the Spire Institute, not the Spire Academy.A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Just Your Average 7-Foot-7 Teenager.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 16, 2018
Happy Friday. Heres what were watching:• The heads of Citi and Goldman took home healthy pay raises last year.• Qualcomm didnt categorically say no to Broadcoms latest offer.• What financial regulation could look like post-Brexit.• Look who bet big on a pick-up in volatility...Peter Thiel.• R.I.P., BTFD?• Kraft Heinz is due for a big deal.• U.S. Bancorps big fine.Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.The good times that returned to Wall Street after President Donald Trump got elected are now flowing into the pockets of the big banks C.E.Os:• Citigroups Mike Corbat saw his compensation jump 48 percent last year, to $23 million.• Goldman Sachss Lloyd Blankfein enjoyed a smaller 9 percent rise, to $24 million.Advertisement• JPMorgan Chases Jamie Dimon, we already know, received a 5 percent increase, to $29.5 million.Advertisement• Bank of Americas Brian Moynihan, we also already know, enjoyed a 15 percent bump, to $23 million.Are those paydays justified?Lets take Mr. Corbat.Citigroups stock rose 25 percent in 2017, a lot more than the 16 percent posted by the KBW Bank Index. Investors piled into bank stocks because of expectations of stronger economic growth, and also because they expected the Trump administration to loosen banking regulations.Citis underlying businesses improved last year. The bank also got through the Federal Reserves stress tests in 2017 without objections from the regulator, something it had struggled to do in previous years.The message from Citis board seems to be that, since the banks performance is now much closer to that of its peers, Mr. Corbats pay also needs to be in the vicinity of his counterparts on Wall Street.But on other yardsticks, the awards can seem highCiti may be doing better than in the past, but its return on equity, a metric that shows a banks return on its capital, was only 6.6 percent last year. Bank of Americas was 6.7 percent. Both are well below the 10 percent earned at JPMorgan.And the makeup of the compensation mattersC.E.O.s compensation is made up of different types of pay:• Cash salaries and cash bonuses• Stock-based bonuses that are paid out over the coming years, and whose value is, to differing degrees, dependent on how the company performs in the future.The theory: The more performance-related pay, the more accountable the executive is.Investors should keep an eye on the amount of performance share units (P.S.U.s) that are included in a comp package, since these are usually the type of stock award that are most at risk of a decline in value if a bank underperforms by certain yardsticks.Advertisement• Mr. Dimons pay appears most dependent on P.S.U.s. They made up 78 percent of his 2017 comp. Mr. Blankfein is close behind with 73 percent.• By contrast, Mr. Moynihan had 47 percent of his comp in P.S.U.s. Mr. Corbat had just 33 percent.Bank of America and Citi would likely assert that the rest of their stock-based awards are also somewhat dependent on the performance of the bank. But shareholders might be happier if all the stock bonus were in P.S.U.s.Just for context: Median household income in the United States was just shy of $60,000 in 2016.— Peter EavisAfter months of delays, the panel that reviews foreign takeovers of U.S. businesses has agreed to review Anthony Scaramuccis deal to sell his stake in SkyBridge Capital to Chinas HNA Group, Bloomberg reports.• Mr. Scaramucci agreed a year ago to sell his investment firm to a subsidiary of HNA Group as he prepared to take a job in the Trump Administration.• The decision starts a maximum 75-day clock for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or Cfius, to decide whether to approve or oppose the deal, Bloomberg reports.• Chinese investors have faced heightened scrutiny from Cfius. Since president Trump took office, a half a dozen Chinese deals have fallen apart because of concerns raised by CFIUS, Bloomberg reports.While $82 a share isnt enough, Qualcomm decided after its Valentines Day meeting with its unwanted suitor, the chip maker left the door open for potential agreement.Advertisement• Raising the breakup fee for antitrust reasons beyond $8 billion. That amount, which represents an already high 6.6 percent of the total deal price, still isnt high enough for Qualcomm. A breakup fee in the range proposed by Broadcom does not come close to compensating for those risks, Paul Jacobs, Qualcomms chairman, writes in a letter to Broadcoms chief, Hock Tan.• Make unspecified other commitments meant to assuage antitrust regulators.• Clarify what Broadcoms intentions are for Qualcomms big licensing business.More from Mr. Jacobss letter:Our board is open to further discussions with Broadcom to see if a proposal that appropriately reflects the true value of Qualcomm shares, and ensures an appropriate level of deal certainty, can be obtained.If the two sides cant reach an agreement, then matters may come down to a vote on Qualcomms board on March 6. Remember that Broadcom is seeking six of 11 board seats, down from its initial target of unseating all directors.Remember: Broadcom has said that its second offer of $82 a share is best and final.The status quo: Shares in Qualcomm were little changed, while those in Broadcom were down slightly.In other Qualcomm news: Elliott Advisors, which owns about 7.2 percent of NXP Semiconductors, renewed its argument that Qualcomm should pay more than $110 a share for the smaller chip maker, especially in light of NXPs recent quarterly earnings.— Michael de la MercedBritains government is often criticized for not clearly communicating the type of deal it wants to strike with the European Union as it prepares to leave the bloc.But, according to a report in the Financial Times on Friday, Britain will soon lay out its post-Brexit vision for financial services, a huge earner for the country. The plan centers on Britain and the E.U. mutually recognizing each others financial regulations.The dilemma Britain faces.Post-Brexit, Britains banks and financial firms would lose special rights that allow them to operate in any E.U. country with few restrictions. Britain could fall back on an arrangement that would allow British banks to do business in the E.U. if they operated under regulations that were equivalent to those in the bloc. But this arrangement has drawbacks. It does not cover important types of financial activities, and British banks may have to comply with any changes to regulation that the E.U. introduces.AdvertisementHence the new plan.The scheme that Britain may now propose appears designed to address those problems. It would allow both sides leeway to strike their own rules once theyve agreed on their main objectives. And it suggests that a monitoring regime and mechanism for resolving disputes be set up.Will the E.U. agree to the plan?The bloc may reject such a proposal because it would risk losing some control over financial regulation. Certain politicians in the E.U. may argue Britain is trying to retain the privileges of the single market while discarding the duties that come with it. Still, some of Europes leaders, banks and businesses may support the plan, in the belief that it will minimize disruption and allow the City of London to continue to play a big role in financing the strong economic expansion taking place in Europe.—Peter EavisPeter Thiel.Bloomberg reports that the venture capitalist known for his investments in Facebook and PayPal had a $244 million bet at the end of 2017 tied to the C.B.O.E Volatility index, or VIX.Filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission show Thiel Macro, which invests Mr. Thiels fortune, held put options on 1.9 million shares of ProShares Short VIX Short-Term Futures as of Dec. 31. The investment is designed to pay off if the VIX rises.Its unclear whether the fund had maintained those positions through last week. But if it had, he would have reaped a big windfall.Investors piled into bets that volatility would continue to decline last year. And those wagers paid off as the VIX spent 2017 trading at historically low levels. But volatility has picked up this year. After trading below 10 to start the year, the VIX spiked to above 37 during the selloff last week. It finished Friday at 19.Vice reports that virtual currencies are now becoming an issue in ... divorce cases:The law firm Royds Withy King says it has seen a flurry of cases recently involving disputes over cryptocurrency holdings, one of which was recently valued at $1.4 million.The firm said it is currently working on three separate high-value divorce cases where spouses are seeking the disclosure and a potential share of cryptocurrency assets.Off the top of our heads, wed think that issues would include a) the reporting, or lack thereof, of holdings and b) the value of any digital money portfolios.— Michael de la MercedIts age-old wisdom. But as investors worry about inflation and central banks raising interest rates unexpectedly quickly, is it still relevant?AdvertisementMore from Julie Edde, Bei Hu and Suzanne Woolley of Bloomberg:Theres sort of, Everybody should buy a dip, which has become folklore in the markets now. I would say history doesnt tell you buying dips is always the right answer, Man Group chief executive officer Luke Ellis said.Another investor, Ian Harnett of Absolute Strategy Research, recommends sell the rallies instead.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Why are stocks and inflation going up?Historically, rising inflation hasnt always meant sinking equity markets. But some people worry all the same. The market historian James Stack told Jim Stewart of the NYT that high valuations and years of low interest rates mean were dealing with what might be the most interest rate-sensitive stock market in our lifetime.State of the markets: Asian indexes rose only slightly, in part because of Lunar New Year celebrations. European stocks rose. S. & P. 500 futures are up strongly.That questions sure to greet the companys C.E.O., Bernardo Hees, during earnings discussions this morning. Whats curious is that he hinted at the topic during a pre-earnings presentation yesterday.With our global presence and financial strength, I think that well continue to generate opportunities for us to expand our portfolio, he said, according to Annie Gasparro of the WSJ.Why another deal? Its what Kraft Heinz and its backers at 3G do best. Meanwhile, sales have been declining, and the companys last big takeover attempt, at Unilever two years ago, fizzed quickly.The deals flyaround• The S.E.C. blocked a Chinese companys takeover of the Chicago Stock Exchange, in part because it couldnt identify the owners. (NYT)• The European Commission will examine whether Linde and Praxairs $80 billion merger. (FT)• Roche has bought Flatiron Health, an electronic records company with a focus on cancer treatments, for $1.9 billion. (CNBC)Advertisement• A lawsuit against CVS raises questions about what its proposed deal with Aetna might do to drug and services prices. (Axios)• Standard Life Aberdeens loss of a big client has stoked fears about the £11 billion merger that created the giant asset manager. (FT)What had been regarded as one of the best-run regional banks has had to pay $613 million to settle accusations that it wasnt doing enough to stop money laundering.More from Emily Flitter of the NYT:For about five years, senior bank employees tried to balance their security systems constant alerts about suspicious customer activity against internal staffing limitations, the authorities said. In a late-2009 memo, court documents show, U.S. Banks anti-money-laundering officer warned the chief compliance officer that employees responsible for investigating the alerts were stretched dangerously thin.The upside: U.S. Bancorps actions werent as bad as HSBCs or Standard Charters.Elsewhere in regulation: Dual-class stock structure of the sort that let Mark Zuckerberg and the Ford family control their companies should have a time limit, according to the Democratic S.E.C. commissioner Robert Jackson Jr.The regulatory long read: Check out ProPublicas investigation into how Mick Mulvaney is loosening regulations on Wells Fargo, payday lenders and more at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.• The Senate rejected two bipartisan bills to protect Dreamers and a much harsher immigration bill backed by President Trump, leaving the fate of the young immigrants uncertain. That raised questions about Congresss ability to pass any bipartisan legislation.• After another school shooting, Congress is again being criticized on gun regulation. Meanwhile, the White Houses budget proposal would reduce funding for school counselors and violence reduction programs.• A second appeals court ruled against the Trump administrations travel ban. (NYT)• A former Trump campaign aide, Rick Gates, is close to a plea agreement with Robert Mueller, unnamed sources say. (CNN)Advertisement• The Trump inaugural committee paid $26 million to a firm set up not long beforehand by a friend of Melania Trump. (NYT)Since its founding nearly five years ago, the mens grooming company has become an competitor to Procter & Gambles Gillette. Now its founders want to create what they describe as a next-generation P. & G.The companys new financing round, led by Alliance Consumer Growth and Temasek of Singapore, is meant to help it buy stakes in nascent consumer brands. Harrys has already invested in Hims, which is focused on mens hair loss prevention. But its founders want to go into products for women, babies and households.More from Michaels article:Weve built a lot of infrastructure at Harrys that we think we can leverage into new categories, Jeff Raider, one of Harrys founders, said in a telephone interview. Its something that weve been excited about for a long time, and were now at a point in our business where we can act on it.Elsewhere in fund-raising: Cellularity, a biotech start-up focused on stem cells, has raised $250 million from Celgene, United Therapeutics and other investors. The goal: turning 100 into the new 60.• The U.S. joined Britain in formally blaming Russia for a huge cyberattack last June that was aimed at Ukraine — but crippled computers worldwide. (NYT)• After the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., Russian bots began spreading pro-gun messages. (Wired)• Instagram blocked access in Russia to posts referring to an opposition leaders corruption accusations, as a censor had demanded. (BBC)• Salesforce led Fortunes list of the best companies to work for. (Fortune)• London proposed new rules for Uber drivers, including shorter shifts and more wheelchair-accessible vehicles. Uber is suggesting a 24-hour hotline to report bad experiences.Advertisement• Evan Spiegel doesnt regret taking Snap public. (Fortune)• How allegations of fraud and sexual harassment at Singularity University cost it Googles support and raised questions about its mission. (Bloomberg Businessweek)• Priceline wants to muscle in on Airbnbs turf. (The Information)Two industry groups will merge to create a self-regulating body, according to people involved in the negotiation. Its the latest sign that the crackdown investors had feared isnt happening.So expect more buyers to emerge:For most of December and all of January investors were focused on a regulatory crackdown, mostly in Asia, said Brian Kelly, a CNBC contributor and head of U, which runs a digital assets strategy for clients. That all changed when C.F.T.C. Commissioner Giancarlo spoke at the Senate Banking Committee and changed the regulatory tone.Wheres Bitcoin today: Just under $10,000, according to CoinMarketCap.Elsewhere in digital money: A crypto miner in Brooklyn was ordered to shut down after causing reception problems for T-Mobile users. Coincheck is being sued by investors whose assets it froze after a heist last month.• Andrew Chen, Ubers head of growth, has left to become a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. (Recode)• NBC promoted Lisa Katz and Tracey Pakosta as co-presidents of scripted entertainment, replacing Jennifer Salke as she heads to Amazon. (NYT)• IBM has sued Microsoft over its poaching of Lindsay-Rae McIntyre as chief diversity officer, pointing to a noncompete clause in her contract. (Axios)Private schools have done this forever, and its a capability that public schools can develop.— Steve Schwarzman, who gave $25 million to his old public high school, on seeking alumni donations.• A playboy models account of her claimed affair with Donald Trump features hotel-room meetings, payoffs and complex legal agreements. (New Yorker)Advertisement• SRS Investment Management is seeking to shake up the board at Avis Budget Group, where its the largest investor. (WSJ)• Childrens book publishing is facing a #MeToo moment, with complaints about prominent writers and editors. (NYT)• Amazon Studios will continue to make Transparent without Jeffrey Tambor, who has been accused of sexual harassment. (NYT)• Britains proposal for how financial services would operate after Brexit involves staying in line with E.U. rules but ceding authority to a dispute resolution mechanism. (FT)• The James Beard Foundation has advised the people who nominate and vote for winners of its award to consider whether they also possess the values of respect, transparency, diversity, sustainability and equality. (NYT)• Cyril Ramaphosa, South Africas new president, faces a familiar challenge: making the economy into a source of progress for the masses. (NYT)• Brian Niccol transformed Taco Bells fortunes. Can he do the same at Chipotle? (NYT)• The corporate investigator Peter Humphrey gave an account of the nearly two years he spent in prison in China after being hired to look into a former GlaxoSmithKline executive there. (FT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 5, 2018
Good Monday. Heres what were watching: • There have been far blacker Mondays.• Kenneth C. Griffin is growing concerned about inflation.• The Feds regulatory action against Wells may have some bite.• Broadcom puts more pressure on Qualcomm• How worried should JPMorgan clients be about health care?• How much more will Wells Fargo have to do?We could use your help: Our colleagues who broke the Harvey Weinstein story are looking at how corporate codes of conduct are changing. Please tell them here, and say we sent you.The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 1,175.21 points, or 4.6 percent, to 24,345.75 on Monday, while the Standard & Poors tumbled 113.19 points, or 4.1 percent, to 2,648.94.AdvertisementMeasured by points, those are steep drops — the biggest on record for the indexes. The previous largest point declines for each benchmark came in 2008, at the height of the financial crisis.AdvertisementBut Mondays plunge was far less impressive on a percentage basis. The Dows fall ranked as its 100th biggest, while the S. & P. 500s slide was the 127th biggest in the indexs history, according to S & P Dow Jones Indices.Here is how Mondays sell-off stacks up against two other major tumbles.• Dow: Down 777.78 points, or 6.98 percent• S. & P. 500: Down 106 points, or 8.81 percentJust weeks after Lehman Brothers failed in September 2008, lawmakers in the House defied President George W. Bush and rejected a $700 billion economic rescue plan. The vote sent markets tumbling to what was the biggest point loss in either indexs history.But points are not the best way to compare the magnitude of a stock indexs declines across eras. As the stock market has risen, big point moves have translated into increasingly smaller percentage changes. The Dow and the S. & P. 500 have more than doubled from their closes on Sept. 29, 2008.• Dow: Down 507.99, or 22.61 percent• S. & P. 500: Down 57.86, or 20.47 percentBlack Monday was a petrifying moment — an even bigger decline in both points and percentage than the stock market crash of 1929. But unlike the 1929 crash, the slide in 1987 did not contribute to a wider economic slump. The stock market recovered its losses by early 1989.But the plunge did prompt regulators to introduce special brakes that kick in when the market falls too far, too fast. Stock markets, though, remain vulnerable to the sort of confusion and fear that one prominent economist said last year was a potent force in 1987.— Stephen Grocer and Peter EavisAs the U.S. stock markets look wobbly for the first time in nearly two years, at least one major investor is sounding a bearish tone.AdvertisementIn a Jan. 31 letter to investors, Kenneth C. Griffin, founder of the Chicago hedge-fund firm Citadel, wrote that even though the broader economic backdrop continues to be positive, he sees several warning signs that could turn stock prices downward.The end of the Federal Reserves efforts to stimulate the U.S. economy is one factor, Mr. Griffin wrote, that could pressure stocks. But the prospect of inflation, or a rapid rise in the prices of goods and services, is making him especially nervous.We are particularly concerned about the nascent signs of rising inflation in a variety of countries, he wrote. As a result, he added, money managers at Citadel, which runs a variety of hedge funds, are carefully positioning for a surprise, sharp upturn in inflation.Mr. Griffin added that he is also concerned about geopolitical risks, writing that his money managers need to be able to handle negative events if they do occur, including a trade policy misstep or a military conflict. He did not elaborate.In an interview with CNBC in November, Mr. Griffin said the stock market was in the seventh inning of a rally. He said through a spokesman on Monday that he still thinks there are several innings to go before a downturn begins and that he is more bearish on bond prices than stocks at the moment.— Kate KellyWith 50 percent of the companies in the S.&P. 500 having reported results, profits are on pace to grow 13.4 percent, according to FactSet. If that growth rate holds through the end of earnings, it would mark the third quarter in the past four that S.&P. 500 companies have reported a double-digit profits increase.The numbers•75 percent of companies are reporting earnings above estimates, above the five-year average.• Companies that are beating estimates are doing so by a 4 percent margin, below the five year average.Advertisement•80 percent of companies have reported revenue above estimates, a record high.• All 11 sectors are reporting earnings growth.A Federal Reserve regulatory action, announced Friday evening, placed a cap on the amount of assets (loans and securities) that Wells Fargo can hold. The Fed took this action in response to misconduct at the bank that involved deceiving its customers. The cap will be in place until the Fed is satisfied that the bank has made sufficient improvements in its operations and corporate governance.Wells Fargos stock is down more than 7 percent Monday, suggesting that investors believe the growth cap will have some bite. With the economy strengthening and interest rates rising, banks can expect to earn higher profits as they make more loans and suffer fewer losses from defaults. Indeed, this optimistic scenario has helped send bank stocks on a tear in recent months. Now, the question is to what degree Wells Fargo will have to sit out the good times.Wells Fargo executives on Friday suggested that the cap would have limited financial impact, saying it would reduce this years net profits by $300 million to $400 million, which works out at less than 2 percent of 2017s earnings. One reason the earnings hit might be small is that the bank can stay within the cap by selling short-term, lower-risk investments that dont earn much. Another way the bank intends to limit the negative impact is by reducing the amount of deposits on which the bank pays out a relatively high interest rate.Crucially, Wells Fargo said that it hopes to increase the size of its loan book. The hope is that, by shedding the low-risk investments, the bank will create the room to make more mortgages, credit card loans and loans to businesses, while staying within the limit.But it may not turn out to be as straightforward as that.The growth cap comes after a lackluster year for Wells, which reduced its loans 1 percent last year, compared with an increase of 3.5 percent at Bank of America. Investors waiting for catch-up growth at Wells may have to wait still longer. Also, much depends on whether Wells Fargo can now satisfy the Feds concerns. Any indication that the bank is struggling to comply with the regulators demands could set off more turmoil at the bank. There is also a possibility that the tactic of shedding of low-risk investments while making more loans could increase the overall risk of Wells Fargos balance sheet.Brian Kleinhanzl, a banks analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, wrote on Sunday that the Feds action will mean Wells will have a harder time maintaining market share and will have to compete more on price or credit terms versus peers, adding, Wells will also have to maintain the balance sheet while other banks are growing, and we view this as defensive versus peers.— Peter EavisIn raising its takeover bid to about $121 billion just now, Broadcom is hoping to allay concerns about its takeover bid and its quest to create a behemoth in computer chips.AdvertisementWhat Broadcom is offering:• A takeover price of $82 a share, up from its original offer of $70• A significant breakup fee if a deal were to be halted for antitrust reasons• A ticking fee that Broadcom would pay in cash if a deal took more than a year to closeIt said the new best and final offer would be withdrawn if Qualcomm either pushed its annual shareholder meeting back from March 6 (when Broadcom hopes to unseat the entire board) or if it paid more than $110 a share for NXP Semiconductor.The context: Qualcomm recently reported a 96 percent drop in operating income amid a royalty dispute with Apple. That has given Broadcom some pause, but not enough to make it walk away.Whats next: This offer isnt likely to tempt Qualcomm. It has a better chance of tempting investors, who might then press the chip maker into negotiations.Bitcoin is down 14 percent Monday to $7,360. Thats a more than 60 percent decline from its high of $19,511 hit on Dec. 8.Other cryptocurrencies are falling as well. Ripple, Ethereum and Litecoin are all down Monday.How far can Bitcoin fall?Simon Tobler, a trader at Swiss-based Crypto Finance AG, told Bloomberg: If we dont hold the $8,000 level, Bitcoin may fall to $5,000, where the next big support is. The market is lacking big buyers.Ever since the bank announced a partnership with Amazon and Berkshire Hathaway to create a new health care company, it appears that many have been very worried.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More from Anna Wilde Mathews, Dana Cimilluca and Emily Glazer of the WSJ:In a reflection of the sensitivity of the subject, JPMorgan Chief Executive James Dimon hit the phones Tuesday to assuage clients concerns, people familiar with the matter said. So did some of the firms health care bankers, who get paid handsomely to help clients with mergers and other deals and worry the move could cost them business.One response: Ultimately, Mr. Dimon, Jeff Bezos and Warren Buffett are working on a sort of group-purchasing venture, according to some of JPMorgans bankers. Thats far less transformative than some on Wall Street had hoped — or feared.On Janet Yellens last day atop the Fed (see below), the regulator demanded that Wells Fargo replace four directors and capped the banks growth. The goal: to send a message.AdvertisementMore from Emily Flitter, Binyamin Appelbaum and David Enrich:The settlement is an attempt by the Fed to impress upon banks that their boards of directors should be vigorous, independent watchdogs — and if they fail, there will be consequences. That reflects a shift from regulators historically hands-off approach to corporate boards, and the boards role is likely to grow in importance as regulators appointed by President Trump and Republicans in Congress generally loosen the reins on big banks.Behind the scenes: Wells Fargo executives were irate that the Feds announcement trumpeted the replacement of the banks directors, and that it implied the boardroom changes came at the Feds instruction.The big question: Will Wells Fargo have to do more than it just agreed? Gillian Tan of Gadfly suggests that Timothy Sloan, who became the banks C.E.O. after the scandals, may have to go.• Paul Ryan deleted a tweet crediting the tax overhaul for a secretarys $1.50-a-week pay raise. Hes still being mocked for it. (NYT)• The federal government is set to nearly double its borrowing this fiscal year, to $955 billion. (WaPo)• Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee plan to push for the release of their own memo rebutting the one by Representative Devin Nunes about the surveillance of a Trump campaign aide. Mr. Nunes said he, too, had more memos to release.• Senator Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said that Congress is unlikely to reach an agreement to protect the immigrants known as Dreamers this week, despite a Feb. 8 government funding deadline. But John McCain and Chris Coons plan on introducing a bipartisan immigration bill anyway.Advertisement• Jeff Sessionss silence in the wake of President Trumps attacks on the Justice Department has weakened morale there. (NYT)The now-former Fed chairwoman told PBS NewsHour that while she didnt agree with Alan Greenspan that there were bubbles in the stock and bond markets, she did see reasons for concern.From her interview with Judy Woodruff:I dont want to label what were seeing a bubble — as a bubble.But I would say that asset valuations generally are elevated, and this is a characterization that we have offered up, for example, last summer in our monetary policy report.Already, investors appear more cautious, faced with a tight-looking labor market and central banks potentially preparing to raise rates and take away the easy-money punch bowl.Todays update: Both Asian and European stock markets continued Fridays declines.More from Ms. Yellen: She also spoke about being the first Fed chair in history not to be renominated after a full term. Well, I would have liked to serve an additional term, and I did make that clear. So, I will say that I was disappointed not to be reappointed, she said.Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund, has taken up a new line of attack as it pushes for change at the chip maker Mellanox. It is accusing top executives and board members of not having enough faith in their company.The criticism: Starboard says Mellanox management and directors have sold shares more than 370 times since the companys I.P.O., while buying its shares on the open market just once.The bigger picture: Starboard is trying to unseat Mellanoxs entire board, arguing that the company needs either to improve its business, including by being more focused in its research spending, or to consider selling itself.Heres a summary of the case for that, put forth by Ed Lee at Recode:• Getting bigger by merging with another media company doesnt solve CBSs problems. Selling to a tech giant with great online distribution does more.Advertisement• Amazons exceptionally deep pockets would let CBS bid for expensive must-watch content like sports rights amid tougher competition.The very big question: Would Shari Redstone, who with her father controls both CBS and Viacom, allow a deal that didnt involve both companies?The deals flyaround• Is debt driving Dells deliberations about a potential I.P.O. or deal with VMware? Maybe less than youd think. (NYT)• Soho House, the operator of trendy members clubs, has hired Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to lead a planned I.P.O. (FT)• Does the deal boom signal a top for the debt markets? (FT)• The Carlyle Group, Bain Capital and Apollo Global Management are among those jockeying for Akzo Nobels chemicals unit, according to unnamed sources. (FT)• GlaxoSmithKline and Reckitt Benckiser were the only bidders for Pfizers consumer unit, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg)A South Korean appeals court reduced and suspended Lee Jae-yongs sentence for bribery and corruption.A lawyer for Mr. Lee said that his client would appeal to South Koreas Supreme Court to be declared innocent of the remaining charges. Prosecutors havent yet said if theyll appeal. But critics of the countrys conglomerates had hoped that Mr. Lees original, unusually long sentence — five years — would herald tougher regulation.AdvertisementThe context: Samsung has done fine with Mr. Lee in jail: Its electronics operation is earning gangbuster profits and its semiconductor business is well positioned to keep minting money.At $7,783, says CoinMarketCap, down another 12 percent over the past 24 hours. Other big virtual currencies are down, too.Not helping: Credit card issuers including JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citigroup and Lloyds are now blocking purchases of virtual currency.It helped create the template for London P.R. firms catering to foreign governments. But it went bankrupt in a tale of corporate skulduggery — working for the wealthy Gupta family of South Africa and inflaming racial tensions there — that seems lifted from House of Cards.More from David Segal of the NYT:In my years of running the P.R.C.A., I have never seen anything worse, never seen anything equal to it, Francis Ingham, director general of the trade association, said in an interview. The work was on a completely new scale of awfulness. Bell Pottinger may have set back race relations in South Africa by as much as 10 years.• Uma Thurman has opened up about what she described as sexual misconduct toward her by Harvey Weinstein. (NYT)• Five women of different ages and professions gathered to discuss experiences of the gender wage gap: That was the most humiliating experience that I have ever had. (NYT)There are a lot of entrepreneurs [in Silicon Valley] developing the next app for clothes shopping who say, not ironically, that We are changing the world. Youre not changing the world.— J.D. Vance, venture investor and memoirist, in a lunch interview with the F.T.• Unilever brought deodorant to China dreaming of a market with 2.6 billion armpits, but struggled against beliefs that its healthy to sweat. Other companies have hit similar cultural difficulties. (NYT)• Early employees of Google and Facebook are among the founders of the Center for Humane Technology, which will challenge the companies they helped to build. (NYT)Advertisement• Amazon has trained markets to give it leeway. They appear to accept that it has a strategy for Whole Foods that will take time. (NYT)• New York Times reporters bought the same ingredients for Super Bowl meatballs at a Whole Foods 365 store and a Walmart. Both the price and the outcome were different. (NYT)• Greg Coffey, the star hedge fund trader known as the Wizard of Oz who retired five years ago, is raising $2 billion for a new fund focused on emerging markets, according to anonymous sources. (FT)Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 30, 2018
Good Tuesday. Heres what were watching:• Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase are teaming up to form a health care company.• Ken Chenault is moving to venture capital.• JPMorgan has (and hasnt) clarified its succession plans.• What should we expect in tonights State of the Union speech?Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.Health care stocks fell on news that Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan are partnering to form a venture to lower the health care costs of their employees.The e-commerce giant has so disrupted businesses from booksellers to grocers to department stores over its two decades as a public company that just the mere mention of it entering a new sector spooks investors. And with good reason. Amazon could spend huge sums, and bear years of losses, to win customers with lower prices.AdvertisementBut beyond that threat, there are some big questions looming over the initiative.1) What is it?The venture will be an independent company that is free from profit-making incentives and constraints. That sounds liberating, and there is no reason to think it wont be, but such visionary language would pack a bigger punch if it was accompanied by hard cash. The release did not give details about the initial investment in the venture.Advertisement2) How big will it really be?The effort focuses on the United States employees of JPMorgan Chase, Amazon and Berkshire Hathaway. Together, the companies have nearly one million employees (a portion of those, though, are outside of the United States.) Thats a lot of employees but relatively small when compared with 157 million people who had employer health care plans at the end of 2016, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Would the venture be able to scale up? Some experts are skeptical about that. Ben Gomes-Casseres, a professor of international business at Brandeis, wrote: My bet is that JPMorgan and Amazons employees have pretty good health coverage, with plans that rank among the richest that the industry has to offer. If so, will these lead users be anxious to find a more cost-effective model? Will they even be willing to experiment with their coverage? And, beyond that – if they do develop a new approach, will it be helpful to the masses of employees at lesser companies, or, worse, the unemployed and uninsured?3) Do these companies bring valuable expertise to providing health care at a lower cost?Its not clear how much more expertise Amazon, Berkshire and JPMorgan have than companies that have been operating in health care for decades. Amazon could have gotten into pharmacy services years ago, if it had wanted, which means it might have seen complexities and risks that dont exist in other sectors. Berkshire brings a strong insurance specialization, but not in providing health insurance directly to the consumer. What is more, Berkshires point man in the joint health care effort will be Todd Combs, an investor who does not come from the insurance operations of the company.4) If the high cost of health care is the main problem, what can this venture do to cut costs?Much depends on whether the effort can address the main reason that health care spending has gone up in the United States versus other countries. A recent Upshot column showed how much of the rise is a result of more being done for patients during hospital stays and doctor visits, or that they are charged more for those services. One way to assess the brash new initiative from Jeff Bezos, Warren Buffett and Jamie Dimon is whether it does anything to address this dynamic.— Peter EavisThats how Warren Buffett referred to the nations ballooning costs of health care Tuesday.Mr. Buffetts Berkshire Hathaway announced it is teaming up with JPMorgan Chase and Amazon to form an independent health care company to serve their employees in the United States.The three companies provided few details about the new entity, other than saying it would initially focus on technology to provide simplified, high-quality health care for their employees and their families, and at a reasonable cost. They said the initiative, which is in the early planning stages, would be a long-term effort free from profit-making incentives and constraints.Mr. Buffetts concern about rising health care costs is not new, nor is his use of tapeworm to describe them. Mr. Buffetts statement Tuesday echoes other recent comments he has made on the subject. He trotted out the tapeworm metaphor to describe rising medical costs during television interviews in 2010 and 2012, MoneyBeats Ben Eisen and Erik Holm point out.AdvertisementAt Berkshires annual meeting in May, he said: Medical costs are the tapeworm of American economic competitiveness.In fact, Mr. Buffett use of the tapeworm metaphor to describe drags on the economy dates back more than three-and-a-half decades at least.Mr. Buffett wrote in his 1981 shareholder letter: Inflation acts as a gigantic corporate tapeworm.Then in his 2013 letter to Berkshire shareholders, he wrote: Citizens and public officials typically under-appreciated the gigantic financial tapeworm that was born when promises were made that conflicted with a willingness to fund them.The smooth glide higher for U.S. stock markets may be hitting a bumpier stretch.Volatility, as measured by the widely followed C.B.O.E. Volatility Index, or VIX, jumped nearly 30 percent in recent days as investors paused to consider the ongoing sell-off in the United States dollar and rising yields on United States government debt.The S.&P. 500 stock index dropped roughly 0.7 percent early Tuesday and could notch its second consecutive decline, something that hasnt happened since mid-December.Low interest rates have been a key ingredient in the almost relentless rise in U.S. equity markets. But with the yield on the benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury now above 2.70 percent, its highest level in four years, that backdrop could be changing.— Matt PhillipsDespite being inundated by post-American Express job offers, Ken Chenault has chosen an interesting path: becoming chairman and managing partner of General Catalyst Partners, which has invested in Airbnb, Warby Parker and Stripe, among others.AdvertisementMore interesting is why hes taking the job, Andrew writes in his latest DealBook column. Hes hoping to be the adult in the room for the next generation of start-ups, after the troubles at Uber, SoFi and more.Heres what he told Andrew:Given their age and the scale and size and impact that they can have on our society, unless they make a step up, we are going to have some serious problems, Mr. Chenault said. And we do have serious problems.Companies are starting to realize that they are growing up, and in growing up, they have to assume some broader responsibilities, he added. Companies are at different stages, from a self awareness standpoint, in accepting that reality.In selecting Rob Shafir — previously the head of Credit Suisses American operations — as the successor to Daniel Och, the hedge fund has apparently laid to rest questions about its leadership planning.A reminder: Before Mr. Shafir, Mr. Ochs chosen successor was James Levin. Then the two men had a falling out.Mr. Ochs statement:Rob is a world-class executive who will be a great asset to Oz as we continue our evolution as a firm. His distinguished career of over 30 years leading global financial institutions and asset management businesses brings unique experience that will benefit Oz significantly.And a statement by Mr. Levin, who had weighed quitting — but was identified in todays statement as still being Och-Ziffs co-chief investment officer:Oz is a tremendous firm with a talented and creative team that works each day to identify and execute on the most compelling investment opportunities around the world. I am excited about the future and look forward to welcoming Rob.— Michael J. de la MercedThe JPMorgan Chase chief said yesterday that he plans to stick around another five years. So who will eventually pick up the baton?In the short term: It could be Daniel Pinto, the head of JPMorgans investment bank, or Gordon Smith, the head of its consumer bank. They were named co-presidents yesterday — but Mr. Pinto is 55 and Mr. Smith is 59.In the longer term: It could be one of the other executives named in the firms statement:• Mary Erdoes, 50, who runs the asset and wealth management arm• Doug Petno, 52, who runs the commercial banking division• Marianne Lake, 48, the C.F.O.The board and Dimon both believe that under all timing scenarios, whether today or in the future, the company has several highly capable successors in place, JPMorgan said in its statement. But the firm has had trouble holding onto potential successors over the years.The political question: Mr. Dimon has said publicly that he isnt going to run for president. (Theres been speculation, and friends are still encouraging him to try.)AdvertisementCritics corner• Antony Currie writes, JPMorgan has given Jamie Dimon the freedom to outstay his welcome. (Breakingviews)• Lex writes, As murky as the future is, the situation at JPMorgan is probably preferable to Goldman, where there is a ferocious thinly-disguised competition between the two co-presidents for the top job. (FT)Surely jobs and the economy, given how often he has spoken on those topics (including at the World Economic Forum in Davos). Politico also suggests infrastructure, immigration, trade and national security.But here are the big questions:• Will President Trump stick to the script and focus on issues like spending $1 trillion on infrastructure?• How hard will he press the White House immigration proposal? Democrats are opposed, and the next shutdown deadline is Feb. 8.• Will he touch on health care, given that Republicans have so far rolled back only a small portion of the Affordable Care Act?• Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee voted to release a contentious memo alleging improprieties in the surveillance of a Trump campaign associate. The Justice Department had wanted it kept secret. (NYT)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• The Trump administration declined to issue new sanctions against Russia. (Axios)• Congressional Republicans are hoping to tame President Trumps stances on trade. (Politico)Advertisement• Businesses and investors are starting to focus on a little-noticed provision in the tax overhaul: opportunity zones to draw investment in economically disadvantaged areas. (NYT)• The F.B.I.s deputy director, Andrew McCabe, is stepping down after months of criticism by Mr. Trump. (NBC News)Both the F.C.C. and the telecom industry are against a plan created at the National Security Council and reported by Axios.Heres what Ajit Pai of the F.C.C. said:Any federal effort to construct a nationalized 5G network would be a costly and counterproductive distraction from the policies we need to help the United States win the 5G future.The White House itself backed away from the proposal and appears to prefer focusing on building secure networks using 5G tech.Whats behind the controversy, from Cecilia Kang and Mark Landler of the NYT:It lays bare the differences between two camps in the administration that have been present since Mr. Trumps inauguration: economic nationalists and China hawks.Among those officials aggressively pushing the 5G network are two China hard-liners: Gen. Robert S. Spalding II, the senior director for strategic planning at the National Security Council, and Peter Navarro, the director of the White House national trade council.Elsewhere in tech• Facebook will promote local news, Mark Zuckerberg says. And pediatric and mental health experts are asking him to discontinue a childrens messaging service.• How committed is Kodak to virtual currency? (NYT)• Microsoft issued an update to Intels update mitigating the Spectre security flaw. (CNBC)• Strava users in the U.S. military have inadvertently disclosed their locations and habits, including in sensitive areas in Iraq and Syria. (NYT)Listed in the phalanx of bankers and lawyers behind the $18.7 billion Dr Pepper Snapple deal is a name you might easily miss, AFW LP. Its short for Antonio Francesco Weiss, the former Lazard banker and Treasury Department official — and an adviser to Keurig.AdvertisementThe recapMr. Weiss was one of Lazards biggest deal makers, eventually becoming the firms global head of investment banking. He worked on InBevs takeover of Anheuser Busch and Reynolds Americans takeover of Lorillard. (He also sold D.E. Master Blenders to JAB, the investment firm that later bought Keurig.)But Mr. Weiss left Lazard to become a counselor at the Treasury Department under the Obama administration, taking on issues like Puerto Ricos debt crisis and new lending marketplaces.Since thenHes become a senior fellow at the Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government at Harvards Kennedy School, and a director at the Volcker Alliance.He has considered getting back into investment banking, and has been courted by many a bank. And he might yet start his own shop.Companies want to go public. But recent news suggests that many want to avoid the initial public offering process.• Exhibit A: Keurigs $18.7 billion deal with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, which would let JAB take the coffee maker public.• Exhibit B: Dell is contemplating a reverse merger with VMware, according to CNBC. (Thats one of several options, weve been told.)• Exhibit C: Spotify.Of course, there will still be I.P.O.s.: Uber, Dropbox and Airbnb are all working toward offerings. But if some companies can avoid the process, it appears they will.• Blackstone is in advanced talks to buy about 55 percent of Thomson Reuters Financial and Risk business, valuing the unit at about $20 billion, including debt, according to unnamed sources. (Reuters, NYT)Advertisement• Qualcomm is under growing pressure to negotiate with NXP shareholders, who have become frustrated at its reluctance to discuss raising its bid. (Bloomberg)• The Japanese chip maker Renesas Electronics is in talks to buy Maxim Integrated for close to $20 billion, according to unnamed sources. (CNBC)• Polychain Capital, the hedge fund investing in blockchain assets thats backed by Sequoia Capital and Andreessen Horowitz, talked to bankers about going public in Canada but decided against. (Bloomberg)• SAP will buy Callidus Software for $2.4 billion, its biggest deal in more than three years. (Bloomberg)• Dalian Wanda is getting a $5.4 billion investment in its property unit and has put two overseas property developments up for sale, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg)• Elliott Management is in talks to take over Waterstones, the British book chain owned by the Russian billionaire Alexander Mamut since 2011. (Sky News)• Stephen Pitts, a senior financing banker at Deutsche Bank who is close to SoftBank, has left for Bank of America Merrill Lynch. (WSJ)Advertisement• Tom Harty, Merediths chief operating officer, will take over as the C.E.O. of the combined Meredith and Time Inc. (WSJ)• Jim Rich will become the editor in chief of the N.Y. Daily News as Jim Kirk takes over the L.A. Times. (NYT)• Wells Fargo named Michael DeVito as the permanent head of its mortgage division. (WSJ)• New Jerseys newly elected governor, Philip D. Murphy, ordered his state to rejoin a regional carbon trading program. A growing number of Democratic state governors are considering taxing or pricing carbon dioxide emissions. (NYT)• Britain would be worse off outside the European Union under every scenario modeled in a British government analysis. (Buzzfeed)• Janet Yellen will preside over her final policymaking meeting today and tomorrow, in which the Fed is expected to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged. (NYT)• Discussions on revamping the North American Free Trade Agreement moved from stalemate to negotiation during the sixth round of talks, which concluded on Monday. (NYT)• To get funds for new stadiums, the N.F.L. dangles the prospect of hosting the Super Bowl. But the windfall generated by the event could be overstated. (NYT)• People are sharing their 401(k) balances on social media. (MarketWatch)• HNA Group told creditors its ability to repay debt will face a potential shortfall of $2.4 billion in the first quarter, according to people with knowledge of the matter. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• Elon Musks tunneling start-up, Boring Company, has started selling a branded flamethrower. It had taken thousands of orders worth $5 million by Monday. (Bloomberg)• Indecision at the highest levels of government about Saudi Aramcos planned initial public offering is causing frustration among company executives and financial advisers. (FT)• Exxon Mobil plans to spend $50 billion on expanding its U.S. business in the next five years, saying that the tax overhaul had enhanced its investments. (WSJ)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 29, 2018
Good Monday morning. Heres what were watching:• JPMorgan Chase named Daniel Pinto and Gordon Smith as co-presidents and co-chief operating officers.• Keurig Green Mountain plans to buy Dr Pepper Snapple.• Steve Wynn has become the highest-profile C.E.O. enmeshed in #MeToo.• How did President Trump do at Davos?• And what is the government thinking about on 5G networks?Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.JPMorgan Chase named Daniel Pinto and Gordon Smith as co-presidents and co-chief operating officers on Monday.Advertisement— Mr. Pinto, 55, has run JPMorgans corporate and investment bank for the past five years. An Argentine, Mr. Pinto has spent the entirety of his 35-year career at JPMorgan.Advertisement— Mr. Smith, 59, is head of the banks consumer and community bank. He oversees 140,000 of the banks 240,000 employees. Mr. Smith joined JPMorgan in 2007 from American Express.The question now is whether the move positions one of the two to succeed Mr. Dimon as chief executive of the nations largest bank by assets. Both Mr. Pinto and Mr. Smith are old enough that it is unclear whether they will be serious contenders for the top job.In the press release annoucing their appointments, the bank said Mr. Dimon planned to stay on the job for another five years. That would mean both executives would be in their 60s when Mr. Dimon retired.But both men could be prepared to step in if unforeseen events cause Mr. Dimon to leave. There has been, of course, much speculation that Mr. Dimon may run for president. (Mr. Dimon has said he is not running.)Mondays moves feel similar to the promotion of Jes Staley to run JPMorgans investment bank in 2009. Mr. Staley was close in age to Mr. Dimon, so he was viewed less as a long-term solution to JPMorgans succession planning and more an executive who could step in if something happened to Mr. Dimon.Listed in the phalanx of bankers and lawyers behind the $18.7 billion acquisition of Dr Pepper Snapple is a name that you might easily miss, AFW LP.That happens to be short for Antonio Francesco Weiss, the former Lazard banker and Treasury Department official — and an adviser to Keurig.AdvertisementDuring his career at Lazard, Mr. Weiss became one of the investment banks biggest deal makers, eventually becoming the firms global head of investment banking after having done tours of duty in New York and Paris.Among the deals he worked on were InBevs acquisition of Anheuser Busch, Reynolds Americans takeover of fellow cigarette maker Lorillard, Burger Kings takeover of Tim Hortons and Googles purchase of Motorola Mobility. (He was also publisher of The Paris Review.)During his career, he came to know the executives who run JAB, which is Keurigs majorityshareholder, and sold the company D.E. Master Blenders, the international coffee business then owned by Mondelez. JAB later combined D.E. Master Blenders with Keurig in a nearly $14 billion deal.But Mr. Weiss left Lazard to become a counselor at the Treasury Department in the Obama administration, taking on issues like Puerto Ricos debt crisis and the marketplace lending practiced by the likes of Lending Club.Since leaving government, Mr. Weiss has taken up residence as a senior fellow at the Mossavar-Rhamani Center for Business and Government at Harvards Kennedy School, as well as a directorship at the Volcker Alliance. (Hes also a prolific op-ed and briefing writer.)He has weighed whether to get back into investment banking, and has been courted by many an investment bank. Its unclear whether he will ultimately join an existing shop or start his own, as rain makers like Paul Taubman have done.The other advisers on the dealFor Keurig Green Mountain:• Goldman Sachs, BDT & Company (which is also investing in the deal), Mr. Weiss, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and the law firms Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and McDermott, Will & Emery• JPMorgan, Bank of America and Goldman are also providing financing for the deal. (The combined company is expected to have some $16.6 billion in debt if the deal closes, though it also anticipates keeping an investment-grade credit rating.)AdvertisementFor Dr Pepper Snapple• Credit Suisse and the law firm Morgan, Lewis & BockiusFor Mondelez• The law firm Clifford Chance— Michael J. de la MercedCompanies want to go public. They just want to avoid the initial public offering process.Thats at least one take away from Monday mornings deal news.Exhibit #1: Keurig Green Mountains $18.7 billion deal for Dr Pepper Snapple Group. Under the terms of the proposed transaction, Keurig, which was taken private in 2016 by JAB Holding, would merge with Dr Pepper Snapple. The deal would create a new company to be called Keurig Dr Pepper, which would trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Keurigs current shareholders would own about 87 percent of the combined company, with Dr Pepper Snapple investors owning the remainder.Exhibit #2: Speculation that Dell could merge with VMware through so-called reverse merger. Alex Sherman of CNBC reports:Dell Technologies could emerge as a public company through a reverse-merger with VMware, the $60 billion cloud computing company it already controls, according to people familiar with the matter.The reverse merger, whereby VMware would actually buy the larger Dell, would then allow Dell to be traded publicly without going through a formal listing.The news comes as Spotify is planning to hit the public markets through a so-called direct listing. Such listings essentially move trading in a companys stock from private markets to public ones, with new investors buying shares on the open market. Instead of a prospectus many weeks before the market debut, the company files a registration statement soon before a direct listing.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Wall Street and Silicon Valley are closely watching Spotifys listing. If it goes well, it could spur other high profile start-ups to pursue a direct listing. That would be bad news for Wall Street since direct listings generate lower fees than the typical I.P.O.A small provision in the Dodd-Frank Act outlawing something called spoofing has generated the latest round of criminal charges against eight traders along with civil settlements by Deutsche Bank, HSBC, and UBS. All for doing something that happens every second of the trading day: entering and then canceling orders.The law makes it illegal to engage in bidding or offering with the intent to cancel the bid or offer before execution.AdvertisementThe federal appeals court in Chicago upheld the first criminal conviction for spoofing last year in United States v. Coscia, in which the judges rejected the argument that no one was deceived by orders placed and then quickly canceled because other traders do that routinely. His scheme was deceitful because, at the time he placed the large orders, he intended to cancel the orders.Apparently, the only requirement to prove spoofing is that the defendant enters orders without any real hope they will be filled to pull the market in one direction so that other orders can be filled, generating a small profit. Proving the case requires showing multiple orders were used and not just isolated transactions, such as one defendant who engaged in what the government claims was 36,000 different instances of spoofing.And it wouldnt be a case involving traders if there werent the usual messages showing how they were gladly abusing the market. In one chat, a trader wrote so glad I could help . . . got that up 2 bucks . . . that does show u how easy it is to manipulate it. Describing something as manipulation sure does help prove intent.Who is fooled by the spoofing? It turns out that most of the time it is competing computer algorithms of other high-frequency trading firms. So this isnt a case in which mom-and-pop investors are taking it on the chin.— Peter J. HenningMeet Shah Capital, Barington Capital Group and NuOrion Partners, who together own about 3.5 percent of the cosmetics maker and today publicly called upon the company to consider selling itself.Barington and NuOrion were behind a previous campaign to force out Avons C.E.O., Sherilyn McCoy. Ms. McCoy has already announced plans to step down.From the hedge funds letter:The shareholder group is extremely disappointed with the deteriorating operating and share price performance that has occurred under the stewardship of the current board. The shareholder group is also dismayed by the Boards failure to act quickly and decisively on the past recommendations its members have made to improve the long-term performance of the company, including promptly hiring a new chief executive officer – a step that has been long overdue and members of the shareholder group recommended over two years ago.The contextAvon is just over two years removed from an agreement to spin off its North American business into a privately held company that was majority-owned by Cerberus Capital Management. After the sale, Avon announced a three-year strategic plan to focus on its remaining operations outside the U.S. and reduce costs.Avon reported $12.5 million in profit for its third fiscal quarter, after previously reporting three consecutive quarterly losses. The company is set to report its fourth quarter results next month.Advertisement— Chad BrayIn the wake of a WSJ investigation into allegations of sexual assault and misconduct, the casino magnates empire has already taken a hit. He has also resigned as the Republican National Committees finance chairman.But more pain is probably in store for Mr. Wynn, whom the veteran reporter Jon Ralston calls the biggest name in the history of Nevada business.The corporate falloutThe Wynn board — long criticized as too cozy with its chairman — has already said that it will form an independent investigating committee.Then theres the question of what will happen to Mr. Wynns casinos, particularly in Macau, which accounts for the vast majority of Wynn Resorts revenue.More from Daniela Wei and Bruce Einhorn of Bloomberg:Any fallout from the allegations could have a major impact on Macau. Gaming regulators in Nevada and Massachusetts are looking into the accusations, and punitive actions in the U.S. could prompt Macau regulators to ramp up their scrutiny, said Wang Changbin, director of the Gaming Teaching and Research Centre at the Macau Polytechnic Institute.Whether Mr. Wynn will be ousted — for a second time — is unclear. He owns 21 percent of Wynn Resorts, but has no extra voting power.The political falloutLawmakers are starting to distance themselves, with House Speaker Paul Ryan donating $1,000 he had received from a Wynn affiliate to charity. We were in the dark for 24 hours, one unnamed R.N.C. member fumed to Robert Costa of the WaPo.Mr. Wynn wasnt among the top 100 political donors in the 2016 election cycle. But President Trump chose him as the R.N.C.s finance chair, and he hosted a fund-raiser for the president at Mar-a-Lago on Jan. 20.More misconduct news• Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, fired his chief of staff this weekend over inappropriate relations with lower-level employees.Advertisement• Investment funds are piling into the settlement-advance industry, in which firms pay plaintiffs in anticipation of a big court victory.Andrews take:All week, Davos-goers worried that he was going to try to humiliate and verbally attack them. He did the opposite. He stayed on script and made a compelling argument for investment in the U.S. C.E.O.s from around the world wanted selfies with him.Per Daniel Yergin of IHS Markit:He was selling America, he was selling the economic story and he was selling himself to an international business community who expected something else.And Ishmael Sunga of the Southern Africa Confederation of Agricultural Unions:He made no controversial statements. He was talking to the crowd of people that hes been brought up to be part of.Mr. Trumps speech, largely written by Gary Cohn and the White House staff secretary, Rob Porter, was both a defense of the White Houses nationalist policies and a case for international cooperation, on U.S. terms. (America first does not mean America alone.)The bigger pictureWhile Mr. Trump sought to play down any isolationist tendencies — and the director general of the World Trade Organization said, I havent seen anything at this point that we are in a trade war — China was still in his sights.A headline from The South China Morning Post: China should be ready for a trade war after Donald Trumps Davos speech.(To many attendees, China remained the real star of this years World Economic Forum.)A bit of color: Many C.E.O.s left Davos before Mr. Trumps speech.Also, this happened: Andrew was pelted with a snowball by Steven Mnuchin.Depends what were talking about. Axios reported that the White House has considered creating a centralized, national 5G network for national security reasons, citing a National Security Council memo.More from Jonathan Swan, David McCabe, Ina Fried and Kim Hart of Axios:The memo argues that a strong 5G network is needed in order to create a secure pathway for emerging technologies like self-driving cars and virtual reality — and to combat Chinese threats to Americas economic and cyber security. A PowerPoint slide says the play is the digital counter to Chinas One Belt One Road Initiative meant to spread its influence beyond its borders.Bloomberg, citing its own sources, paints a slightly different picture: The U.S. is in talks with private companies to build a secure 5G network amid concerns about China and cybersecurity. The decision deadline is the end of September.The bigger pictureAT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and others have already spent billions of dollars on 5G networks. Given its speed and data capacity, it remains their biggest initiative, and its unclear how much control, if any, they would be willing to give up.AdvertisementAny nationalization effort would run counter to how the government has handled wireless infrastructure for decades: by auctioning off the airwaves and letting private companies do the work.From AT&Ts statement on the issue:Thanks to multibillion-dollar investments made by American companies, the work to launch 5G service in the United States is already well down the road.• Republican lawmakers warned Mr. Trump not to fire Robert Mueller, but showed little interest in a bill to protect him. (NYT)• The Koch brothers political network plans to spend as much as $400 million on this years midterm elections. (Axios)• A portrait of Paul Manafort as a dangerously successful foreign-policy entrepreneur. (Atlantic)He spoke to Reuters shortly before being freed from detention in the Riyadh Ritz-Carlton over the weekend:Q: Do you expect to retain ownership of Kingdom Holding and stakes in companies like Citigroup?Yes, Kingdom Holding will remain under my ownership, the same ownership.The prince denied forfeiting a significant part of his fortune or pledging donations to projects spearheaded by his jailer, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. But analysts in the region still think his ultimate settlement will be pricey.Shares in Kingdom Holding are back to where they traded before Mr. bin Talals detention.The big questions: Will international businesses feel better about investing in Saudi Arabia after what the crown prince said was a crackdown on corruption? And how much will the kingdom collect from the royals who were detained?In other Saudi news: The government still hasnt decided where to list Aramco, and it may not begin trading on an international stock exchange this year. Meanwhile, the U.S. oil industry is still riding high.Thats in the wake of the NYT Magazines inquiry into Devumi, a company that sold millions of fake followers (some using stolen identities) to the likes of Michael Dell and the Twitter director Martha Lane Fox. Impersonation and deception are illegal under New York law, the state attorney general said.The big questionDo Twitter and other social media companies really want a crackdown? Heres the take of Dan Leal, a pornographer who bought followers:Countless public figures, companies, music acts, etc. purchase followers, he wrote. If Twitter was to purge everyone who did so there would be hardly any of them on it.In other tech news: Intels initial disclosures about flaws in its chips included briefings for Chinese tech companies but not the U.S. government, the WSJ reported, citing unnamed sources.• Sanofi agreed to buy Ablynx, a Belgian biotech company, for $4.7 billion. (Reuters)• Three activist investors — Shah Capital, Barington Capital Group and NuOrion Partners — who together own a 3.5 percent stake in Avon plan to push the cosmetics maker into selling itself. (WSJ)Advertisement• Low interest rates, legal bills and capital demands have eroded profits at European banks, making the rationale for mergers more compelling. (Bloomberg)• Alibaba and Foxconn led a $350 million fund-raising round by Xiopeng Motors, an electric carmaker that wants to be Chinas Tesla. (Bloomberg)• Leonard Green is near a deal to buy Pro Mach Group, a packaging company, for more than $2.2 billion, including debt, according to unnamed sources. (Reuters)Coincheck, a Japanese digital currency exchange, promised to partially reimburse customers after being hit by a $500 million theft on Friday. But the heist has again raised the prospect of more regulation.Coincheck has until Feb. 13 to explain the cause of the incident and how it will stop it happening again.Another Bitcoin no-trade zone: Deutsche Banks wealth management unit is advising clients against investing in virtual currencies• Ingvar Kamprad, who made a multibillion-dollar fortune with Ikea and introduced the world to cheap, Nordic-designed furniture, died on Saturday.Advertisement• William McDonough, who led the New York Fed through both Sept. 11 and the Long-Term Capital Management crisis, died last week.The problem now is that innovation is not viewed as an unalloyed way to improve the human condition. And thats fair, because its not pure.— Bill Gates, speaking about social media, A.I. and many other topics in the NYTs Table for Three column. • Every major economy on earth is expanding. (NYT)• The expansion of the U.S. economy rests on consumer confidence. But history indicates that it will eventually shift the other way, writes Robert Shiller. (NYT)• The L.A. Times is expected to name Jim Kirk, former editor and publisher of The Chicago Sun-Times, as its next editor in chief. He replaces Lewis DVorkin, who touched off unrest in the newsroom. (NYT)• Some consolation for the places that lost out on being Amazons HQ2: Their applications will help Amazon pick warehouse and secondary office sites. (NYT)• In China, the collapse of a string of online investment companies has devastated small investors. Beijing is acting to tamp down on potential unrest. (NYT)• HNA Groups liquidity woes could test Chinas legal system. (FT)• Tech giants are scrambling to prepare for stringent new data privacy rules in Europe, with Facebook rolling out a new global data privacy center on Sunday. (NYT)• Rob Norman, the retiring chief digital officer of GroupM talks to us about Facebooks news plans. (NYT)• Volkswagen, Daimler and BMW are struggling to deal with a public relations disaster that stemmed from their financing a test that used monkeys to monitor the health effects of diesel exhaust. (NYT)AdvertisementWed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Ancient fortresses, crisp mountain streams, curious people and healing cities: Travelers are discovering the Kurdish region of Iraq, a place of great beauty, haunted by war.
Explorer By                     
TIM NEVILLE

JAN. 29, 2018
The Mar Mattai monastery clings to the side of a steep mountain, and on a clear day a visitor can stand against its fortresslike walls and discern far below the winsome farmlands of Upper Mesopotamia. Here, in the cradle of civilization, the building is one of the oldest Christian monasteries in the world. From this peaceful perch, it is difficult to imagine the horror.One hazy morning last spring, Harry Schute, a retired Army colonel in his 50s with a Cheshire grin, walked through the monasterys heavy doors and along its shaded arcades. A boy played with a soccer ball in the courtyard, the boom of each kick cracking off the stone walls. At its peak in the 9th century, the monastery housed as many as 7,000 monks. Today it has five, a bishop, this boy and his family — all survivors of the Islamic State.We were on the western fringes of Kurdistan, a Netherlands-size, semiautonomous region in the north of Iraq that is home to 5.2 million of the worlds estimated 30 million Kurds, a stateless people who populate the border regions between Iraq, Turkey, Iran and Syria. The fact that the monastery still stood; that this Christian boy and his family were still alive; that a small group of North Americans now felt safe enough to travel here — all of it seemed like a miracle.Mosul, Iraqs second largest city, one of the most dangerous cities in the world, sat 20 miles southwest. In June 2014, ISIS overran it and the groups leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, stood inside its Great Mosque of al-Nuri and named himself caliph of the terrifying regime. By August 2014, ISIS ominous black flags snapped just three miles from where I now stood. Under the cover of night, the monasterys manager, a priest named Yousif Ibrahim, whose brother had already been murdered by the militants, spirited away scores of ancient documents, the last of the monasterys once magnificent library, and even a discolored hand bone fragment believed to have belonged to St. Matthew the Hermit, who founded the monastery in 363 A.D. He was certain the monastery would be lost. But then the airstrikes began and the Kurdish Peshmerga and Iraqi Army turned the tide on the ground. The caliphate began to crumble.AdvertisementIt was now May 2017 and most of the artifacts had been returned to the monastery. This was one of the first times that Mr. Schute had brought travelers here since ISIS had come so close. Today Mr. Schute believes that Kurdistan could be one of the worlds great travel destinations if people would only stop confusing it with the Iraq they see in the news.To be sure, Kurdistan is nothing like the Iraq of Mosul but a Middle Eastern Montana with ruins: a cooler, welcoming tableau of crisp mountain streams and scrappy peaks. A traveler can ski at a new resort serviced by gondolas or wander through the sun-roasted walls of the deepest canyon in the Middle East. You can drink city water from the taps and stroll around Erbil, the regional capital, concerned with only how to decline, politely, invitations to drink tea.Hello, my friend, have some bread.Come, sit.Please, mister, enjoy my country.For now, the war with ISIS was still winding down. Soon we would watch a 500-pound coalition bomb erupt over the militants last stronghold in Mosul and send a huge mushroom cloud curling over the city. The concussion, heavy and round, would ring for miles. Here at the monastery, though, on this pleasant spring day, birdsong ricocheted off the cliffs and the only thing to explode were the poppies.AdvertisementAs a West Point history major with a soft spot for heavy metal, Mr. Schute had been a state trooper in New Jersey before being called to Iraq in April 2003 to command a United States Army Reserve civil affairs battalion. Those are the guys who help get people and things out of the way so the Army can come in and break stuff, he said. Soon he became something of a celebrity as the senior American officer in Kurdistan; to this day, the Kurds — who view Americans as their liberators for ousting Saddam Hussein — recognize him on the street and ask for photographs with him. As his tour drew to a close, Mr. Schute began to feel anxious.It was like there was a hole in me, he said. I felt I was in the middle of contributing worthwhile things and I wanted to continue to contribute. I wanted to stay.The Kurdistan Regional Government eventually offered him a job in Erbil, about 225 miles north of Baghdad. For a history buff, Kurdistan was a dream. He could hear swords ringing on grassy fields where ancient armies collided. He ran his hands along the ramparts of forgotten fortresses and felt the dampness in the crypt-like passages of mystical shrines. He learned Kurdish and married a Kurd.In 2003 at a Kurdish investment seminar in Erbil, Mr. Schute met Douglas Layton, an American who came to Kurdistan in 1992. Mr. Layton, whose round spectacles and woolen cap lend him the air of a paperback spy, had survived a $1 million bounty on his head, courtesy of Saddam Hussein. After the dictators capture and execution, Mr. Layton journeyed to Husseins palace in Baghdad, where he found his outlandish throne and sat in it. Youre gone, Mr. Layton whispered to Saddams ghost, and Im still here.Mr. Schute and Mr. Layton, who had been working for the Meridian Health Foundation, both knew of Kurdistans cultural riches and friendly people, so they joined forces to create what eventually became Kurdistan Iraq Tours, the only inbound tourism operator in Kurdistan. The idea seemed absurd.Everyone said no one will come to Iraq, and I said but theyll come to the other Iraq! Mr. Layton recalled. I believed, and I still believe, that tourism is the future.For their main local guide, they hired and trained Balin Zrar, a charismatic, chain-smoking Kurd. Mr. Zrar had spent seven years running an Italian restaurant in London after he smuggled himself to Europe — an epic tale that involved time in an Iranian prison camp and riding for days curled atop a spare tire under a tractor-trailer. After the London bombings, Mr. Zrar returned to Kurdistan to dabble in real estate. For the guide-position interview, Mr. Layton asked him if he liked history. I hate history, replied Mr. Zrar, now in his early 40s, and the candor landed him the job. No one believed hed be busy.In 2008, though, things took off. The company landed a contract with California-based Distant Horizons to run its Kurdistan cultural trips and soon others followed. Momentum built. By 2011 The New York Times put Iraqi Kurdistan on its annual list of places to go. National Geographic Traveler did the same. Top Gear, the British television show, filmed a special there. In 2012 tourism arrivals surged 30 percent, year-over-year, to about 2.2 million visitors. Copycat inbound companies sprang to life. Starwood, Kempinski and Marriott lined up to manage new luxury hotels. By spring 2014, Kurdistan Iraq Tours had 15-person groups booking 11-day itineraries and was actually making some money.Then, ISIS showed up.The militants steamrolled down the Tigris and pushed into Kurdistan. They got so close to Erbils city gates that even Mr. Schute was worried. Tourism companies shut down. Seventy hotels closed. Many flights ceased. We were the last guys standing, Mr. Layton said.AdvertisementBut all through those awful years the men worked behind the scenes, speaking to lawmakers and publishing a gorgeous, comprehensive guidebook to the region. As soon as ISIS was gone they knew travelers would come wandering back.THE RED-EYE FROM AMMAN touched down just before dawn in Erbil where Mr. Zrar waited. He had a slim build and black hair flecked with gray. He fidgeted, as most Kurdish men do, with a string of beads called a tasbih. Outside the air was hazy and cool.Our contingent of five North Americans had pretty much spent a lifetime traveling. Even so, only one of us, the head of an adventure travel trade association, had visited Kurdistan before. This time hed brought along his son, whod turn 17 on the trip. A Canadian expat living in Hong Kong and a photographer from Los Angeles who had been to North Korea 10 times rounded out our group.We piled into a mini bus and rolled into the city. Rows of half-finished skyscrapers rose from the earth like the picked-over rib cage of a great steely beast. Barbershops, bookstores, mosques and carts laden with wild cucumbers and cigarettes scrolled by the window. Unlike Iraqi Arabs, few Kurdish women wore head scarves. If you ignored the road signs pointing to Baghdad, you could mistake this for Turkey.TURKEYAmediDuhokLalishiraqikurdistanIRANMosulErbilDukanLakeTigrisSulaymaniyaArea ofdetailHalabjaIRAQBaghdad50 milesJAN. 29, 2018
The plan was to spend a week traveling in a clockwise loop that started and ended in Erbil, taking in cities like Duhok and Sulaymaniyah along the way. Wed hike in the Zagros Mountains, paddle kayaks on Lake Dukan, and eat kebabs and flatbread. Often wed pause over sugary tea outside noisy bazaars and linger in museums highlighting Kurdish traditions and history. Mr. Layton, who now lives in Connecticut, could not join us, but Mr. Schute, still in Erbil, would spend time with us.Immediately it became clear that this would be unlike any other trip. Mr. Schute also serves as a senior security adviser to the Kurdish interior ministry and works closely with the Peshmerga, which means those who face death. More than 100,000 of these Kurdish soldiers — our allies against Saddam Hussein and ISIS — manned a nearly impenetrable front riddled with tank ditches and checkpoints that has kept Kurdistan an enclave of comparative security while much of the rest of Iraq remains too dangerous for tourists. The Peshmerga, coalition forces and the Iraqis had cornered the last of ISISs fighters in Mosuls old city along the Tigris. The effort to root them out for good was being coordinated through the Zerevani Peshmerga headquarters outside Erbil. Mr. Schute arranged to take us there.C-17s roared overhead as we arrived. In the distance you could see a dome that the South Koreans had built for a gym and several squat metal buildings. Guards led us into a room with a long table set with bananas and apricots and cold cans of Pepsi. United States Army Lt. Col. Darin E. Huss, the centers director, and Iraqi and Kurdish generals, came in to answer our questions about the fight. In 10 days it will be finished, inshallah, Staff Major Gen. Saad Khalid Yasin told me. (It would be more like six weeks.)AdvertisementMost eye-opening of all, though, was the bases Mad Max junkyard of captured ISIS vehicles. The militants had welded thick armored plates around old Soviet personnel carriers and attached grids of rebar along their sides to disperse incoming rocket blasts. Some rigs had heavy metal prows to better ram a checkpoint. Others had been reduced to mangled heaps of metal. I climbed inside one that had been scorched beyond all recognition. On the floor lay a chalky white bone. Lamb. Someones lunch had ended poorly.OVER THE NEXT FEW DAYS we took in more mainstream sites. We strolled around Erbils citadel, a fortress on a mound, that dates to 6000 B.C., and mingled with Arab Iraqis from the south who seemed overjoyed to friend an American on Facebook. I stuck my nose in sacks of zaatar and sumac in the citys frenetic bazaar and watched two teen lovebirds — she in a hijab, he in jeans — kiss behind a tree in a park where no one could see but God.The next morning our driver headed north toward the Mar Mattai monastery. We slipped past wheat fields, gas stations with knockoff names like Shall and Nobil, and a refinery — a reminder of Kurdistans agricultural economy and the fact that Iraq controls some of the richest oil fields in the world, a quarter of which lie in Kurdistan. Kids played on the banks of the Greater Zab River where earthen bunkers once shielded Iraqi tanks during the 2003 invasion. This was the Green Line, the point behind which Saddam withdrew his forces after the creation of a no-fly zone over Kurdistan following his defeat in the 1991 Gulf War.The air turned hair-dryer hot as we wrapped up our time at the monastery. From there we drove to a field just outside a village called Amian. A lone cow stood in the grass. A kid in a yellow shirt rode by, waving, on a bike. In the distance rose a gumdrop-shape dollop of earth. It was a tell, or a man-made hill formed when ancient villages are built and rebuilt atop one another over thousands of years until theyre abandoned and the grass reclaims them.Kurdistan is littered with these. Very few of them have been excavated, Hashim Hama Abdullah, the director of the Slemani Museum in Sulaymaniyah, would tell me later after Id spent a morning studying the museums ancient stelae, tablets and other artifacts. No excavating happened at all under Saddam, he said. Now teams are coming in.Kurdistan has no real budget for tourism projects, which means few attractions have basic things like interpretive signs. This field, which also has never been excavated, would be just a field without Mr. Schute to explain it. In 331 B.C. the Persian king Darius III picked this now peaceful place to face Alexander the Great of Macedonia once and for all. The ensuing fight, the Battle of Gaugamela, saw Dariuss far greater force suffer such horrific losses that soon the Macedon kingdom would stretch from Greece to Pakistan. The battle counts as one of the most important military victories of all time, Mr. Schute said.Can you feel it? he asked, as he imagined the war elephants, the scythed chariots and the tens of thousands of soldiers lining up to hack each other to bits. I get here and I can feel it.We pressed on toward Duhok, a city tucked between the Shandukha and Spi mountains, just as rain began to fall. We stopped to take a short hike to see carvings of Assyrian kings left in a hillside and grabbed a lunch of nesik, a lentil soup, and sawer, a bulgur dish served with pickled squash. Murals on walls said respect the Peshmerga.AdvertisementOf all the people that ISIS fought, the militants were particularly vicious toward the Yazidi, one of Iraqs most mysterious religious minorities, who were massacred by the thousands. The Yazidi allow no outsiders to convert to Yazidism and the contents of their holy text, the Meshef Resh or Black Book, are only for other Yazidi. In the most general of terms, they believe in one god and that the angel cast from heaven in Christian faiths is now the reconciled leader of all angels, and takes the form of a peacock. Some Yazidi dont wear blue.The faith holds that every Yazidi should take a pilgrimage to the center of their world, or Lalish, a lovely mountain village about 30 miles southeast of Duhok. The Yazidi believe that Noahs Ark came to rest here after a snake used its body to plug a hole in the boat, thus saving all of creation.Yazidi kids gathered around us as we walked toward temples tucked against scruffy hillsides. The village had stone buildings and narrow streets, and families sat together on carpets inside courtyards and on patios. Everyone, like us, was barefoot. Shoes arent allowed in Lalish.Where you from? asked a boy in sunglasses.Another, a teen with immaculate hair, wanted to take a selfie with us. Soon everyone wanted a selfie with us. They followed us toward a shrine with a conical roof. Sheik Adi, a man as holy to the Yazidi as Jesus is to Christians, was buried inside. Step through the door! a boy told me, meaning I shouldnt step on the threshold. Angels rest in doorways.Inside the air was cool and moist. A woman pressed her forehead against a threshold, kissed it and mumbled. Others walked around Adis tomb, chanting; holy water burbled up from deep within the mountain. In one room I found two holes in the floor. One went to heaven, the other to hell, but no one would tell me which was which.That seemed to be a fitting image for the rest of the trip, which oscillated between breathtaking beauty and heartbreaking anguish. We visited the spectacular town of Amadiya, perched on a butte, perhaps home to the three wise men, and toured refugee centers where children had posted notes for dead parents. We danced in shin-deep water at the Ali Begg waterfall with giggling Arab Iraqi men, then visited Halabja where Saddam murdered thousands of Kurds in chemical gas attacks. I gazed over endless peaks that stretched toward Turkey, while standing in the blown-up husk of one of Saddams once-lavish palaces. Never once did I feel unsafe.Even so: I dont know what the future is, Mr. Zrar told me. Its not wise to be hopeful.And yet all across the Middle East you get the sense that something deep is afoot and that adventure travel stands at the center. Jordan has a new trans-country trail. Palestinians and Egyptians are learning to rock climb. You can run marathons in Oman. The act of getting outside and taking a step forward is seen as an act of empowerment, David Landis, an American who helped coordinate the rise of the Abraham Path, a trail network currently underway from Egypt to Iran, told me.AdvertisementNear the end of the trip we met Rekan Rasool, 25, who started a hiking and kayaking club for Kurds. In 2010 his Rock Your Bones group had a handful of members. Today it has more than 6,000.Standing along the Lesser Zab River, he told me how he dreams of opening an outdoor shop in Erbil, of hiking across Kurdistan through the mountains, of getting more women involved in the outdoors. Like Mr. Schute and Mr. Layton, he sees something in Kurdistan that would be obvious were it not for the news.When there is no war in my country, Kurdistan is the best place, he said. He stuffed inflatable kayaks, coolers and tents into his S.U.V. for a long weekend of adventure with his girlfriend. We said goodbye. Then he drove down a road that arced out of sight.The Kurds voted in September to declare independence from Iraq, a move that triggered Baghdad into placing a punitive ban on international flights into the region. Talks in mid-January hinted that the ban might soon be lifted. The Kurdish news agency Rudaw has an English website and has been covering the flight ban regularly. Until it is lifted, travelers have two options for getting into Kurdistan.The first is to go overland through Turkey. To do that you would fly to Sirnak or Diyarbakir, both in southeastern Turkey, then cross into Iraqi Kurdistan via the Habur-Ibrahim Khalil border crossing. Youll need a Turkish visa. The second way is to connect on a domestic flight through Baghdad. To do that, youll need an Iraqi visa.Visa rules for Kurdistan may change as Kurd and Iraqi authorities negotiate the results of the independence vote. For now, passport holders from the United States, Britain, the European Union, Australia, New Zealand and Japan can get a free 30-day Kurdistan visa at the border crossing and, presumably, upon arrival at the Erbil airport in Kurdistan once flights resume. Again, that may all change. Check the Kurdistan Regional Government website for more information. As of press time the K.R.G.s Department of Foreign Relations website had removed its webpage related to Kurdish visas.For these reasons, its recommended that would-be travelers find a reputable company to organize their trips and to keep them up-to-date on visa requirements. Kurdistan Iraq Tours (info@kurdistaniraqtours) offers custom trips that can range from single-day excursions to two-week itineraries or more for up to 15 people. Prices are all-inclusive (without flights) and vary depending on the group size, hotels and the exact itinerary. Expect to pay from $2,000 to $9,000. (Note: Kurdistan is a cash economy. You can use a credit card at major hotels but Kurdistan Iraq Tours can only take cash.)Kurdistan Iraq Tours works with outfitters based in Britain and the United States, such as Steppes Travel, Native Eye Travel, Undiscovered Destinations, Young Pioneer Tours and Spiekermann Travel. Mountain Travel Sobek plans to offer a Kurdistan trip in 2019. Wild Frontiers Travel may add it again in the future.The State Department strongly advises against traveling to Iraq and it didnt support the Kurdish referendum. Travel insurance is a must. Companies like World Nomads and First Allied offer coverage in Iraq. Its also a good idea for United States citizens to register with the State Department through its Smart Traveler Enrollment Program before going. Kurdistan Iraq Tours high-level contacts within the Kurdish government allow for a more nuanced and real-time understanding of whats safe and what isnt. Situations can change, of course, but I, and other members in my group, never once felt unsafe.Tim Neville is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page TR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Haunted by War.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

      By NICHOLAS KRISTOF

FEB. 20, 2018

This story has been updated. Visit this page to see the latest.It has happened yet again: Inevitably, predictably, fatefully, a gunman shot dead 26 people in a Texas church on Sunday. These incidents are peculiarly American tragedies, and whats particularly heartbreaking is that they arent shocking. People all over the world become furious and try to harm others, but only in the United States do we suffer such mass shootings so regularly; only in the U.S. do we lose one person every 15 minutes to gun violence.Two of the deadliest mass shootings in modern American history have occurred in the last six weeks. So lets not just mourn the dead, lets not just lower flags and make somber speeches. Lets also learn lessons from these tragedies, so that there can be fewer of them. In particular, I suggest that we try a new approach to reducing gun violence – a public health strategy.The first step is to understand the scale of the challenge America faces: The U.S. has more than 300 million guns – roughly one for every citizen – and stands out as well for its gun death rates. At the other extreme, Japan has less than one gun per 100 people, and typically fewer than 10 gun deaths a year in the entire country.Guns per 100 peopleThe United States stands alone among developed countries: It has by far the highest rate of firearms ownership.88.8United States45.7switzerland31.6Sweden31.2france30.8canada30.3germany15.0Australia11.9italy10.4spain6.2England, wales0.6JapanGun murders per 100,000 peopleAmericas private arsenal is six times as lethal as Canadas, and 30 times worse than Australias.3.00United States0.7Italy0.5Canada0.3Sweden0.2Germany0.2Switzerland0.1Australia0.1England, Wales0.1france0.1Spain0JapanGuns per 100 peopleThe United States stands alone among developed countries: It has by far the highest rate of firearms ownership.88.8United States45.7switzerland31.6Sweden31.2france30.8canada30.3germany15.0Australia11.9italy10.4spain6.2England, wales0.6JapanGun murders per 100,000 peopleAmericas private arsenal is six times as lethal as Canadas, and 30 times worse than Australias.3.0United States0.7Italy0.5Canada0.3Sweden0.2Germany0.2Switzerland0.1Australia0.1England, Wales0.1france0.1Spain0JapanGun enthusiasts often protest: Cars kill about as many people as guns, and we dont ban them! No, but automobiles are actually a model for the public health approach Im suggesting.We dont ban cars, but we work hard to regulate them – and limit access to them – so as to reduce the death toll they cause. This has been spectacularly successful, reducing the death rate per 100 million miles driven by 95 percent since 1921.Take a look at the history of motor vehicle safety since World War II:Deaths per 100 million vehicle miles traveled19469.3581968  First federal safety standards for cars64201621.1850s60s70s80s90s00s10sDeaths per 100 million vehicle miles traveled19469.351950  1968  First seatbelt offered in an American carFirst federal safety standards for cars81974  55 m.p.h. national speed limit1993  Car safety ratings introduced61978  Tennessee is first to require child safety seats1999  Airbags, invented in 1951, become mandatory1984  4New York is first to require seat belt use2000  Mandatory reporting of defects by carmakers201621.184650s60s70s80s90s2000s10s16Frankly, liberal opposition to guns has often been ineffective, and sometimes counterproductive. The 10-year ban on assault weapons accomplished little, partly because definitions were about cosmetic features like bayonet mounts (and partly because even before the ban, such guns were used in only 2 percent of crimes).The left sometimes focuses on gun control, which scares off gun owners and leads to more gun sales. A better framing is gun safety or reducing gun violence, and using auto safety as a model—constant efforts to make the products safer and to limit access by people who are most likely to misuse them.What would a public health approach look like for guns if it were modeled after cars? It would include:If someone steals my iPhone, its useless, and the same should be true of guns. Gun manufacturers made child-proof guns back in the 19th century (before dropping them), and its time to advance that technology today. Some combination of smart guns and safe storage would also reduce the number of firearms stolen in the U.S. each year, now about 200,000, and available to criminals.We also need to figure out whether gun buybacks, often conducted by police departments, are cost-effective and help reduce violence. And we can experiment more with anti-gang initiatives, such as Cure Violence, that have a good record in reducing shootings.In Texas on Sunday, it seems that a man living near the church grabbed his gun and confronted the shooter after he left the church. It may be that this defensive use of a weapon saved lives, and the N.R.A. often hails this view that guns are necessary to counter gun violence.But really? Can anybody possibly see what unfolded in Texas as a success of gun policy?It is true that guns are periodically used defensively. One study by the Violence Policy Center found that in 2012 there were 259 justifiable homicides by a private citizen using a firearm.Percent of Households With Guns,by StateHawaiiMass.U.S. AVERAGE: 32% OF HOUSEHOLDS HAVE GUNS R.I.N.J.N.Y.Del.Conn.Ill.States in red have gun death rates above the national average of 10.5 per 100,000 people.Calif.Fla.Md.Wash.N.H.Ind.OhioCo.Pa.IowaMinn.Ariz.Nev.N.D.Mich.Va.Ore.N.M.N.C.Tex.S.C.Neb.Kan.Ga.Mo.Okla.Wisc.La.Ky.UtahAla.MaineTenn.S.D.W. Va.Ark.AlaskaVt.Miss.IdahoMont.Wyo.20%40%60%80%Percent of Households With Guns, by StateHawaiiMassachusettsRhode IslandU.S. AVERAGE: 32% OF HOUSEHOLDS HAVE GUNS New JerseyNew YorkDelawareConnecticutIllinoisCaliforniaStates in red have gun death rates above the national average of 10.5 per 100,000 people.FloridaMarylandWashingtonNew HampshireIndianaOhioColoradoPennsylvaniaIowaMinnesotaArizonaNevadaNorth DakotaMichiganVirginiaOregonNew MexicoNorth CarolinaTexasSouth CarolinaNebraskaKansasGeorgiaMissouriOklahomaWisconsinLouisianaKentuckyUtahAlabamaMaineTennesseeSouth DakotaWest VirginiaArkansasAlaskaVermontMississippiIdahoMontanaWyoming20%40%60%80%Gun Law Grades and Gun Death RatesThe Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence finds that states where guns are more regulated tend to have lower gun death rates. In its grading system, the strongest gun regulations get an A; the weakest, an F.States in red have death rates above the national average of 10.5.GUN DEATH RATEPER 100,000 U.S. RATE:10.5 GRADEAHawaii2.7Mass.3.1N.Y.4.2Conn.4.9N.J.5.3Calif.7.4Md.9.0BR.I.3.0Ill.9.0Wash.9.6Del.10.9CMinn.6.6Iowa7.4Wis.8.2Pa.10.4Mich.11.0Ore.11.7Colo.12.2DN.H.8.6Neb.9.4Va.10.3Ohio10.3N.C.11.8Ind.12.3FMaine9.4Vt.10.2S.D.10.3Texas10.6Kan.11.3Fla.11.5N.D.12.0Utah12.4Idaho13.2Ariz.13.4Ga.13.6Ky.13.9W. Va.14.5Nev.*14.7Tenn.15.1Mo.15.2S.C.15.4Okla.15.6N.M.15.8Mont.16.1Wyo.16.3Ark.16.5Ala.16.8Miss.18.3La.19.0Alaska19.1Gun Law Grades and Gun Death RatesThe Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence finds that states where guns are more regulated tend to have lower gun death rates. In its grading system, the strongest gun regulations get an A; the weakest, an F.States in red have death rates above the national average of 10.5.GUN DEATH RATEPER 100,000 GRADEAFMaineHawaii9.42.7VermontMassachusetts10.23.1South DakotaNew York10.34.2ConnecticutTexas4.910.6KansasNew Jersey11.35.3FloridaCalifornia11.57.4U.S.RATE:10.5 North DakotaMaryland12.09.0Utah12.4Idaho13.2BRhode Island3.0Arizona13.4Illinois9.0Georgia13.6Washington9.6Kentucky13.9Delaware10.9West Virginia14.5Nevada*14.7CMinnesota6.6Tennessee15.1Iowa7.4Missouri15.2Wisconsin8.2South Carolina15.4Pennsylvania10.4Oklahoma15.6Michigan11.0New Mexico15.8Oregon11.7Montana16.1Colorado12.2Wyoming16.3Arkansas16.5Alabama16.8DNew Hampshire8.6Mississippi18.3Nebraska9.4Louisiana19.0Virginia10.3Alaska19.1Ohio10.3North Carolina11.8Indiana12.3But the problem is that lax laws too often  make it easy not only for good guys to get guns, but also for bad guys to get guns. The evidence is overwhelming that overall more guns and more relaxed gun laws lead to more violent deaths and injuries. One study published in the Annals of Internal Medicine found that a gun in the house was associated with an increased risk of a gun death, particularly by suicide but also apparently by homicide.In 2015, Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas tweeted that he was embarrassed that his state was ranked second (behind California) in requests to buy new guns, albeit still with one million requests. Lets pick up the pace Texans, he wrote. Abbott apparently believes, along with the N.R.A., that more guns make a society more safe, but statistics dispute that. Abbott should look at those charts.Critics will say that the kind of measures I cite wouldnt prevent many shootings. The Las Vegas carnage, for example, might not have been prevented by any of the suggestions I make.Thats true, and theres no magic wand available. Yet remember that although it is mass shootings that get our attention, they are not the main cause of loss of life. Much more typical is a friend who shoots another, a husband who kills his wife – or, most common of all, a man who kills himself. Skeptics will say that if people want to kill themselves, theres nothing we can do. In fact, it turns out that if you make suicide a bit more difficult, suicide rates drop.Here are the figures showing that mass shootings are a modest share of the total, and the same is true of self-defense – despite what the N.R.A. might have you believe.EACH SYMBOL REPRESENTS 500 GUN DEATHS IN 2016AN ESTIMATED 22,000 GUN SUICIDESABOUT 11,760 HOMICIDESOTHER CAUSESDEATHS INMASSSHOOTINGS:456VICTIMS KILLINGPERPETRATORS INSELF-DEFENSE:5891.6%1.2%SHARE OF ALLGUN DEATHS:EACH SYMBOL REPRESENTS 500 GUN DEATHS IN 2016AN ESTIMATED 22,000 GUN SUICIDESABOUT 11,760 HOMICIDESOTHER CAUSESVICTIMS KILLINGPERPETRATORS INSELF-DEFENSE:589DEATHS INMASSSHOOTINGS:4561.6%1.2%SHARE OF ALLGUN DEATHS:Yet while we should be moving toward sensible regulation, in fact weve been moving in the opposite direction. Gun laws have been loosened in many parts of the country. Check out these maps:Not allowedAllowedConcealed carry1991AllowedNot AllowedTodayOpen carry (Handguns)1991TodayOpen carry (long guns)1991Today1991TodayConcealed CarryAllowedNot allowedOpen carry(Handguns)Open carry(Long guns)For skeptics who think that gun laws dont make a difference, consider what happened in two states, Missouri and Connecticut. In 1995, Connecticut tightened licensing laws, while in 2007 Missouri  eased gun laws.The upshot? After tightening gun laws, firearm homicide rates dropped 40 percent in Connecticut. And after Missouri eased gun laws, gun homicide rates rose 25 percent.Connecticut after 1995 lawtightening licensing requirementsEstimated change inrate of gun homicide–40%Estimated change inrate of gun suicide–15%Missouri after 2007 repealof license requirementsEstimated change inrate of gun homicide+25%Estimated change inrate of gun suicide+16%Connecticut after 1995 lawtightening licensing requirementsMissouri after 2007 repealof license requirementsEstimated change inrate of gun homicide–40%+25%Estimated change inrate of gun suicide–15%+16%One of the lessons of gun research is that we often focus just on firearms themselves, when it may be more productive to focus on who gets access to them. A car or gun is usually safe in the hands of a 45-year-old woman with no criminal record, but may be dangerous when used by a 19-year-old felon with a history of alcohol offenses or domestic violence protection orders.Yet our laws have often focused more on weapons themselves (such as the assault weapons ban) rather than on access. In many places, there is more rigorous screening of people who want to adopt dogs than of people who want to purchase firearms.In these two states, the laws affected access, and although theres some indication that other factors were also involved in Connecticut (and correlations dont prove causation), the outcomes are worth pondering.Theres simply a scandalous lack of research on gun violence, largely because the N.R.A. is extremely hostile to such research and Congress rolls over. When the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention did try to research gun violence, Congress responded by cutting its funding.Here is the American toll from four diseases and firearms over the years 1973-2012 – and the number of National Institutes of Health research grants to explore each problem over that same time.N.I.H. research awardsDiseaseNumber of casesRabies6556Polio266212Cholera400129Diphtheria1,33789Firearmsinjuries3>4 millionNumberof casesDiseaseN.I.H. research awardsRabies6589Polio266129Cholera400212Diphtheria1,33756Firearm Injuries3>4 millionOne approach that could reduce the abuse of guns is better training. As a 13-year-old farm boy in Oregon, I attended a N.R.A. gun safety class (which came with a one-year membership to the N.R.A., making me an N.R.A. alum who despises what that organization has become). These classes can be very useful, and audits found that more than 80 percent cover such matters as checking the gun to see if its loaded, keeping ones finger off the trigger until ready to fire and being certain of the target.Yet the audits also suggest that trainers are more likely to advocate for the N.R.A. or for carrying guns than for, say, safe storage. This is a missed opportunity, for all classes should cover the risks of guns and alcohol, the risks of abuse with suicide and domestic violence, the need for safe storage, and so on. Heres what researchers found that the gun classes they audited actually covered:NOTDISCUSSEDPERCENT OF CLASSESWHERE DISCUSSEDTrainers encouragedgun carrying81%19Encouragedgun ownership7624Prevent unsupervisedaccess by children7030Encouraged gun usefor self-defense69316040Ricochet6040Theft preventionEncouraged membershipin gun-rights group5644Legal ramifications ofshooting in self-defense55455347Child access lawsRecommendation: whennot in use, store unloaded5050Recommendation: usegun only as last resort4555Young childrenand gun accidents55457030Decision-making in crisesTheft is important sourceof firearms used in crime8020Techniques forde-escalating threats8515Recommendation:report stolen firearms9010Watch for signs of suicidein household members90109010Domestic violence riskTopic discussedPercent of classes where discussedNot discussedTrainers encouraged gun carrying1981%Encouraged gun ownership2476Prevent unsupervised access by children3070Encouraged gun use for self-defense3169Ricochet4060Theft prevention4060Encouraged membership in gun-rights group4456Legal ramifications of shooting in self-defense4555Child access laws4753Recommendation: when not in use, store unloaded5050Recommendation: use gun only as last resort5545Young children and gun accidents5545Decision-making in crises7030Theft is an important source of firearms used in crime8020Techniques for de-escalating threats8515Recommendation: report stolen firearms9010Watch for signs of suicide in household members9010Domestic violence risk9010It may sometimes seem hopeless to make progress on gun violence, especially with the N.R.A. seemingly holding Congress hostage. But Im more optimistic.Look, we all agree on some kinds of curbs on guns. Nobody believes that people should be able to drive a tank down Main Street, or have an anti-aircraft gun in the backyard. Ive been to parts of northern Yemen where one could actually buy a tank or an anti-aircraft gun, as well as fully automatic weapons — and that areas now embroiled in a civil war – but fortunately in America we have agreed to ban those kinds of weaponry.So the question isnt whether we will restrict firearms, but where to draw the line and precisely which ones to restrict.Check out these polling numbers as a basis for action on gun safety:Agree with the following:Householdswith no gunsGun households50%Background checksfor all gun buyers93%96%Preventing mentally ill from buying guns8989Nationwide ban on the sale of guns to people convicted of violent crimes8885Barring gun purchases by people on no-fly or watch lists8284Background checks for private sales and at gun shows7787Federal mandatory waiting period on all gun purchases7289Ban on modifications that make a semi- automatic gun work like an automatic gun6779A ban on the sale of guns to people convicted of violent crimes would reduce gun violence6175New gun laws will not interfere with the right to own guns5771Congress is not doing enough to reduce gun violence5681Creating a federal database to track gun sales5480A ban on the sale of high-capacity magazines(10+ bullets)*5277Householdswith no gunsGun householdsAgree with the following:50%93%Background checks for all gun buyers96%89Preventing the mentally ill from buying guns89Nationwide ban on the sale of guns to people convicted of violent crimes8885Barring gun purchases by people on no-fly or watch lists8284Background checks for private sales and at gun shows7787Federal mandatory waiting period on all gun purchases7289A ban on modifications that make a semi- automatic gun work like an automatic gun6779A ban on the sale of guns to people convicted of violent crimes would reduce gun violence6175New gun laws will not interfere with the right to own guns5771Congress is not doing enough to reduce gun violence5681Creating a federal database to track gun sales5480A ban on the sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines (10+ bullets)*5277Looking ahead, Im optimistic that there can be progress at the state level, and some of the necessary research funding will come from private foundations. Maybe some police departments will put in orders for smart guns to help create a market.But the real impetus for change will come because the public favors it. In particular, note that 93 percent of people even in gun households favor universal background checks for gun purchases.The terrible truth is that Wednesdays school shooting was 100 percent predictable. So is the next one. After each such incident, we mourn the deaths and sympathize with the victims, but we do nothing fundamental to reduce our vulnerability.Some of you will protest (as President Trump did the last time) that its too soon to talk about guns, or that it is disrespectful to the dead to use such a tragedy to score political points. Yet more Americans have died from gun violence, including suicides, since 1970 (about 1.4 million) than in all the wars in American history going back to the Revolutionary War (about 1.3 million). And its not just gang members: In a typical year, more preschoolers are shot dead in America (about 75) than police officers are.Yes, making America safer will be hard: There are no perfect solutions. The Second Amendment is one constraint, and so is our polarized political system and the power of the gun lobby. Theres a lot of talk about banning assault weapons, for example, but the 10-year assault weapons ban didnt accomplish much for reducing gun violence, partly because defining assault weapons proved to be much more complex than anybody had anticipated (in the end, the definition depended partly on cosmetic features). And new restrictions have limited effectiveness because we have delayed so long that there are already so many guns out there. So its unclear how effective some of my suggestions will be, and in any case this will be a long, uncertain, uphill process.But automobiles are a reminder that we can chip away at a large problem through a public health approach: Just as auto safety improvements have left us far better off, it seems plausible to some gun policy experts that a sensible, politically feasible set of public health steps could over time reduce firearm deaths in America by one-third — or more than 10,000 lives saved each year.So lets not just shed tears for the dead, give somber speeches and lower flags. Lets get started and save lives. Lets not accept that school classrooms can turn any moment into war zones.I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on Twitter (@NickKristof).By NATALIE PROULX and KATHERINE SCHULTENFEB. 15, 2018
Updated: Feb. 20, 2018: We have continued to add to this post since we first published it on Feb. 15, and have included many more resources around the role of student voice. We have also added a related Student Opinion question to which your class is invited to respond: Can High School Students Make a Real Impact on the Problem of Gun Violence in the United States?Please let us know what we may be missing, or post your own thoughts, ideas or experiences.__________By now your students know about the Feb. 14 shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. How are you addressing it in your classroom? Please let us know in the comments.We asked that question on social media on the morning of Feb. 15, and immediately got advice from several teachers.AdvertisementCheryl M. Morin wrote:This morning, Ill be asking them what they have heard, creating opportunity to verbalize as well as acknowledge their feelings. Well spend some time either writing or drawing as a way to release the energy. Well review lockdown procedures for our school. We will do this daily.We also heard from Clara Green, a social emotional learning coach in Atlantas public schools. She sent this email to the teachers she supports:I am absolutely heartbroken by the horrific school shooting in Parkland, Florida. This morning, it is more critical than ever than we make students feel welcomed at school. Many of your students may come to school with strong emotions and questions and we must provide a safe space for them to cope with this traumatic event.In talking about this event with elementary-aged students, she and the American School Counselor Association recommend doing the following:• Trying to keep routines as normal as possible. Kids gain security from the predictability of routine, including attending school.• Limiting exposure to television and the news.• Being honest with kids and share with them as much information as they are developmentally able to handle.• Listening to kids fears and concerns.• Reassuring kids that the world is a good place to be, but that there are people who do bad things.• Rebuilding and reaffirming attachments and relationships.Another teacher, Kristin Hunt Runyon, said she will be doing the following:Reviewing Alice (Active Shooter Civilian Response Training) protocolReminding students to report warning signs of mental health issues and possible threats to an adultExplaining why my classroom door will remain locked every day from now on because it is the only tool we have to protect our students inside the classroom.And Stacy Matros Hardcastle wrote about the role of school in students lives:We have to make our schools places where students feel a human connection. Places where they would never, ever think to bring a gun to campus.If there is ever even a whisper that someone has the plan to bring a gun, our teachers and students should be able to communicate freely with law enforcement so that those plans are stopped. There need to be policies that would have allowed physical intervention as soon as yesterdays shooter posted one of the many disturbing things he did on his social media.We need to protect each other.Because The Learning Network is for students 13 and older, the resources below focus on understanding this shooting and its implications, but parents and teachers of younger students might find this advice, published by The Times after the shooting in Newton, Conn., helpful. Our friends at Scholastic also offer these Resources for Responding to Violence and Tragedy.AdvertisementBefore addressing any traumatic event with students of any age, however, you might read our advice on talking about sensitive issues in the news.We have also created a forum where students can share their thoughts. Invite yours to post answers to the question, What Is Your Reaction to the Deadly Shooting at a Florida High School?We will continue to update this post._________Understand What Happened and React to ItTo learn more about the shooting on Feb. 14 and its aftermath, students might read the article Florida School Shooting Death Toll Is at 17 and Could Rise and answer these questions:1. How many people were killed and injured in the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.?2. Who was the gunman? What weapons did he use? What has he been charged with?3. What evidence do the police have that shows the attack was premeditated, or planned?4. How does this school shooting compare with others in modern United States history?5. What were the initial responses of parents and school officials to the attack?6. How did students describe the scene inside the school?7. After learning more about what happened, what are your reactions to this tragedy?You can continue to follow the latest updates here, and your students can post their thoughts about what they read in answer to this related Student Opinion question: What Is Your Reaction to the Deadly Shooting at a Florida High School?Advertisement_________Recognize and Honor the Victims and HeroesHave students read about the 14 children and 3 adults who lost their lives at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and think about the different ways they could be commemorated.Students might create a collage or bulletin board profile of the victims, perhaps modeling them on a Times feature like the annual Lives They Lived or the Portraits of Grief series, which profiled those lost in the 9/11 terrorist attacks.Amid this tragedy, there are also stories of great courage and benevolence. Encourage your students to look for the helpers — those that risked their own lives and safety to help others. What heroic acts have they read about?What acts of service can students offer to recognize, honor and celebrate the victims? Brainstorm ways you may be able to offer condolences to the families or the community of Parkland, Fla., or do a related service learning project that grows out of students thoughts and feelings about these events, the victims lives, the needs of school communities, or actions they can take to prevent tragedies like this in the future._________School Shootings in Context
                Since 26 people were killed in Newtown, Conn., in 2012, a nonprofit that tracks school shootings has recorded five a month, on average.            Invite students to study the graphic above. What does it say about school shootings in the United States? What does that make them think and feel? Why?In the related article, Jugal K. Patel writes:More than 40 active shooter episodes in schools have been recorded in the United States since 2000, according to F.B.I. and news reports. Two 15-year-old students were killed and 18 more people were injured last month in a school in rural Benton, Ky. The shootings have become common enough that many schools, including Stoneman Douglas High, run annual drills in which students practice huddling in classrooms behind locked doors.With the Parkland shooting, three of the 10 deadliest mass shootings in modern United States history have come in the last five months.In fact, lockdown drills are now such a common feature of the school experience that a high school student who was one of the winners of our Editorial Contest last year wrote an essay, Stopping Bullets With Locked Doors and Silence Is Already Pulling the Trigger. In it she argues:It has become very familiar for high-school students to practice the infamous level-three lockdown. In all cases, we all share the semi-nervous chuckle of wow, maybe we get Swiss-cheesed today and sit in a corner, stare at our phones and text our friends. Only very recently, after a vivid dream — more a nightmare — of a school shooting, did I realize that sitting in the dark and stopping bullets with locked doors and silence is the exact opposite of what one would want to do. It wasnt until I stumbled upon the fact that the people shot and killed in the Columbine library sat there for five minutes before the shooters entered and shot them. My school is full of able-bodied kids, and surprisingly, a great chunk that has had experience with self-defense and even marksmen training. So why sit and wait?Has your school been affected by gun violence? What measures do you have in place to prevent future violence, or to respond to threats? Ask students to investigate if they cant answer that question, then discuss: Do you think your school and community are doing enough to prevent future shootings? If not, what else do you think they should do? What do you think individual students can do, if anything?_________ Are We Becoming Numb to School Shootings?Thousands of readers have commented on the article about the Parkland shooting. One by Tom from Vermont sums up what hes read:The comments here seem so stark and brief. Understandably so, what is left to say? It is becoming so easy to see a headline like the one on this story and shrug. This is the new America. But is it? Something inside me still makes me think we have the resolve to turn this terrible tide.On The Learning Network, we responded to a shooting in Benton, Ky. in January by posing the question, Are We Becoming Numb to School Shootings? It was in reaction to an article headlined, School Shooting in Kentucky Was Nations 11th of Year. It Was Jan. 23. Seventy students answered, and the question is still open to comment if your students would like to weigh in.Nathanie Doralus from Florida wrote:As a student, I agree that weve become numb to the news of school shootings in the United States. My high school has already had two lockdowns this school year because of students bringing guns onto the campus. It happens so often that I think many feel powerless to stop them so the default is to either ignore them or solemnly shake your head in silence. In some ways, I think its an attempt to not live in constant fear while attending school and receiving an education because no one should have to. But in other ways, I think some wont take it seriously until it hits close to home. If we were taking school shootings more seriously than before, then there wouldnt have been eleven incidents already in the first month of this year. Very few people take active assailant drills at my school seriously. I think that is just an example of denial and how its hard to take something seriously unless it actually happens to you or someone you know. Schools can do more than just increasing their security measures and frequently enacting drills. They can also invest in the mental health and well-being of their students and provide the support some of them need in order to prevent these acts of violence.And Jocelyn Savard from North Carolina shared this perspective:In Boston, there are a series of billboards promoting gun violence awareness. One reads Americans killed since the massacre at Sandy Hook and has a live count of citizen owned gun deaths displayed. I remember walking around a few years ago and being startled at the number. When Sandy Hook happened and my mom told me, I cried for days. Just a few days ago when the notifications showed up on my phone about Kentucky, I barely blinked an eye. Of course, my heart plummeted and I could feel humanitys downfall one step closer but there was no tears, at church this weekend there was no announcement, no prayer. As a country, we have normalized school shootings so much, made books and movies out of them, make offhand comments about how that guy looks like a school shooter, that we are rapidly becoming detached to the horror that we call our home.Do your students agree with these teenagers that we are rapidly becoming detached to the horror of school shootings? Why or why not?AdvertisementHow has this latest attack affected them? What do they think we might do to keep from becoming detached?_________The Role of Students: Cellphones and Social Media Students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., hid in closets as a gunman fired a semiautomatic weapon into their classrooms. Seventeen people were killed.Technology has allowed the public to witness mass shootings in new and terrifying ways. The students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School used their cellphones and social media accounts in real time to share their experiences and spread messages of pain, anger and gratitude, as well as calls to action.In As Shots Ring Out, a Student Texts: If I Dont Make It, I Love You, Audra D.S. Burch and Patricia Mazzei write:One student hit her record button while being led out of the school to safety by sheriffs deputies. On her way, her cellphones shaking camera lens passed over several bodies sprawled on the floor.In another cellphone video, several dozen gunshots were audible not far away. Oh my God! Oh my God! one student shouted.Like many school districts, Broward Countys allows high school students to bring cellphones to school, so long as they dont interfere with class work. On Wednesday, many students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School held onto their phones for dear life as a 19-year-old gunman, Nikolas Cruz, stalked the grounds and fatally shot 17 people. They used them to keep their terrified parents informed about what was happening. And they used them to keep a visual record of an awful crime.Hiding in a sweltering storage room with about 40 other students, she typed out a text message to her mother, Stacy, for what she thought might be the last time.If I dont make it, she wrote, I love you and I appreciate everything you did for me.Students also took to Twitter to post the texts they thought might be their last to their family and friends:
            this is a conversation someone should never have with their family. We go to school to learn, not to get shot. For some this was their last conversation with their loved ones #PrayforDouglas #GUNviolence pic.twitter.com/FNCREQ2eik Ask your students:Whare are your reactions to these firsthand accounts of the violence that took place in Parkland, Fla.?How have these videos impacted the public conversation around guns and school safety? Why do you think they have had such a dramatic effect? Do you think the fact that your generation is so fluent in social media gives you a voice previous generations did not have? What might be the benefits and drawbacks of that if so?__________The Role of Students: They Survived the School Shooting. Now Theyre Calling for Action
            Student David Hogg who survived the school shooting looks directly in the camera, and sends a message to President Trump and lawmakers: Please, take action. Ideas are great… But whats more important is actual action… saving thousands of childrens lives. Please, take action. pic.twitter.com/C5mf9qPlqA On Feb. 15, a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School implored lawmakers to act to prevent future violence, calling the frequency of school shootings in the United States unacceptable.Ideas are great, ideas are wonderful and they help you get re-elected and everything, but whats more important is actual action, the student, David Hogg, said on CNN.Mr. Hogg, whose younger sister lost two friends in the shooting, called on politicians to act.Were children, he said. You guys are the adults.AdvertisementSince then, as The Times writes, youthful voices have resonated where those of longtime politicians have largely fallen flat, and many see in that a reason for hope.As David Leonhardt writes:...the movement to reduce gun violence seems to have a new energy, driven by students — who of course have provided much of the energy for previous political movements. Individual schools have already held or planned walkouts. A nationwide protest is scheduled for March 14, with help from organizers of the Womens March. Teachers are also talking about mass protest, as Slates Dahlia Lithwick explains.In A Mass Shooting Generation Cries Out for Change, The Times points out that teenagers today have grown up with code-red drills, and they have a perspective many adults do not:This is life for the children of the mass shooting generation. They were born into a world reshaped by the 1999 attack at Columbine High School in Colorado, and grew up practicing active shooter drills and huddling through lockdowns. They talked about threats and safety steps with their parents and teachers. With friends, they wondered darkly whether it could happen at their own school, and who might do it.Now, this generation is almost grown up. And when a gunman killed 17 students this week at Stoneman Douglas High in Parkland, Fla., the first response of many of their classmates was not to grieve in silence, but to speak out. Their urgent voices — in television interviews, on social media, even from inside a locked school office as they hid from the gunman — are now rising in the national debate over gun violence in the aftermath of yet another school shooting.While many politicians after the shooting were focused on mental health and safety, some vocal students at Stoneman Douglas High showed no reluctance in drawing attention to gun control.They called out politicians over Twitter, with one student telling Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, YOU DONT UNDERSTAND. Shortly after the shooting, Cameron Kasky, a junior at the school, and a few friends started a Never Again campaign on Facebook that shared stories and perspectives from other students who survived the rampage.Just hours after 17 people were killed in a mass shooting at their high school in Parkland, Fla., students turned to social media to advocate for more gun control.What do your students think about these activist teenagers and their messages? What messages or ideas resonate with them the most?Can their generation effect real change on gun violence? How? What examples are they reading or hearing about — or witnessing themselves — that seem to be having an impact? What are their own personal opinions about what should be done, how and why? What can each of us do as individuals, and what can people their age do together?As many have pointed out, it was widespread student activism during the era of the civil rights movement and the war in Vietnam that helped change history. And as we learned from the students who participated in our recent News Diet Challenge, teenagers can feel overwhelmed by the news unless they can find a way to act on what they read.To learn more, invite them to read Emma González Leads a Student Outcry on Guns: This Is the Way I Have to Grieve and watch the related videos, including the one below:They can also read an Op-Ed in The Times by a freshman at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. In Dont Let My Classmates Deaths Be in Vain, Christine Yared writes:We cant let innocent peoples deaths be in vain. We need to work together beyond political parties to make sure this never happens again. We need tougher gun laws.If a person is not old enough to be able to rent a car or buy a beer, then he should not be able to legally purchase a weapon of mass destruction. This could have been prevented. If the killer had been properly treated for his mental illness, maybe this would not have happened. If there were proper background checks, then those who should not have guns would not have them.We need to vote for those who are for stricter laws and kick out those who wont take action. We need to expose the truth about gun violence and the corruption around guns. Please.Invite your class to respond to the Student Opinion question we have posted: Can High School Students Make a Real Impact on the Problem of Gun Violence in the United States?And if they are interested in more ideas for taking action beyond those these young people have already suggested, our lesson plan Ideas for Student Civic Action in a Time of Social Uncertainty might offer ideas._________The AR-15 and Gun ControlThe AR-15 assault rifle, and others like it, is commonly used in mass shootings in the United States. Here's a closer look at likely reasons.The New York Times reports that the gunman who killed 17 people and injured others at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School used an AR-15 assault rifle. This style of rifle was also used in the attacks in Newtown, Conn.; Aurora, Colo.; Las Vegas; and Sutherland Springs, Tex., among others.Students might watch the video above, then discuss: What are some of the reasons that the AR-15, and other weapons like it, have become so common in mass shootings? How does it compare with other types of guns?AdvertisementIn recent years the regulation of the sale of this style of rifle has come to the forefront of the national gun debate. In a 2017 appeal to the Connecticut Supreme Court, relatives of victims in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School argued:The companies that manufactured and sold the military-style assault rifle used by the gunman should be held responsible for the 2012 attack.A lawsuit filed by the relatives said that the AR-15-style Bushmaster used to carry out the shooting in Newtown, Conn., that killed 26 people, including 20 first graders, was specifically marketed as a weapon of war, with slogans and product placement in video games invoking the violence of combat. The lawsuit claims that such promotions were a deliberate effort to make the weapon attractive to young men, like Adam Lanza, the 20-year-old gunman.At the same time, the National Rifle Association has taken to calling the AR-15 Americas rifle and gun owners say that the AR-15 is used for hunting, sport shooting and self-defense.Ask students: Do you think AR-15-style rifles should be more strictly regulated in the United States? Why or why not?Do you think any other measures should be taken to restrict access to guns? If so, what? If not, what else can be done to prevent more mass shootings like this one?Students might read how others responded to these questions after the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., and add their voices to the conversation by commenting here since that post is now closed.Or, take a look at the forum on guns we posted during the 2016 election as part of our Civil Conversation Challenge  for teenagers. We invited students to have productive, respectful conversations on several issues dividing Americans, and more than 700 responses came in to the questions we posed about gun rights, the Second Amendment and more.Update: The Times has now published a piece that summarizes political responses: Right and Left React to the Gun Control Debate After the Florida Shooting._________Only in the United States?In How to Reduce Shootings, the columnist Nicholas Kristof writes:Inevitably, predictably, fatefully, another mass shooting breaks our hearts. This time, it was a school shooting in Florida on Wednesday that left at least 17 dead at the hands of 19-year-old gunman and his AR-15 semiautomatic rifle.But what is perhaps most heartbreaking of all is that they shouldnt be shocking. People all over the world become furious and try to harm others, but only in the United States do we suffer such mass shootings so regularly; only in the United States do we lose one person every 15 minutes to gun violence.He writes that we should learn lessons from these tragedies, so that there can be fewer of them. In particular, I suggest that we try a new approach to reducing gun violence — a public health strategy.Invite your students to take a look at the graphics from a visual essay he did in November after the church shooting in Texas. What do they see? What questions do the charts raise? To what extent do they agree with Mr. Kristofs conclusions?Advertisement___________The GunmanWhat do authorities know so far about the shooter? What is not yet known?In Nikolas Cruz, Florida Shooting Suspect, Was Expelled From School, Matthew Haag and Serge F. Kovaleski write:The man suspected of opening fire inside a Florida high school on Wednesday, killing at least 17 people, is a former student who had been expelled for disciplinary reasons, the authorities said.… In the hours after the shooting, people who knew Mr. Cruz described him as a troubled kid who enjoyed showing off his firearms, bragging about killing animals and whose mother would resort to calling the police to have them come to their home to try to talk some sense into him. At a school with about 3,000 students, Mr. Cruz stayed to himself and had few friends but struck fear in some students with erratic behavior and an affinity for violence.… In the interview with the Miami news station, the student said Mr. Cruz was a junior at Stoneman Douglas High School when he was expelled last year. He said that students would joke that if anyone were to open fire inside the school, it would be Mr. Cruz. Because of that, students feared him and mostly stayed away from him, the student said.A lot of people were saying that it would be him, the student told WFOR-TV. They would say he would be the one to shoot up the school. Everyone predicted it.In Nikolas Cruzs Lifetime of Trouble: Family Loss, Flashes of Rage, The Times writes that he has been causing trouble as long as anyone here could remember.Do you think this attack could have been prevented? If so, how? If not, why not?What might school administrators, teachers and students be able to learn from this attack to prevent others like it from happening? How could they respond to students who may be showing signs of trouble in school, on social media or at home?What — if anything — should students do if they encounter others who display erratic behavior or inclinations toward violence?_________Related Learning Network ResourcesResources: Talking and Teaching About the Shooting in Newtown, Conn.Resources for Teaching and Learning About the Las Vegas ShootingCampus Catastrophe: Resources for Teaching About the Shootings at Virginia TechFilm Club | Haunted by ColumbineWatershed: Teaching About Gun Control After NewtownWere interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »With Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 6, 2018
Good Tuesday. Heres what were watching:• Tronc nears a deal to sell L.A. Times.• Dow surges 500 points.• Reasons not to worry about the recent sell-off.• Disney easily exceeds Wall Streets expectations.• Snap jumps 20 percent after earnings.• Clayton: Theres nothing that came out of this that concerns me.• Is algorithmic trading to blame for Mondays plunge?Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.The owner of The Los Angeles Times is close to a deal to sell the newspaper to Patrick Soon-Shiong, a billionaire Los Angeles doctor, two people familiar with the negotiations said Tuesday. The $500 million deal comes amid months of turmoil at The Times, including upheaval in the editorial and management ranks.AdvertisementThe transaction would include The Times and The San Diego Union-Tribune, these people said. Dr. Soon-Shiong is a major shareholder in Tronc, the parent company of The Times.AdvertisementA deal could be announced as soon as Wednesday but could still fall apart, the people said. Tronc is likely to use the sale proceeds to pay down its debt.Dr. Soon-Shiong, the founder, chief executive and chairman of NantHealth, a health care company, was in a public feud last year with Michael W. Ferro Jr., Troncs nonexecutive chairman, as they vied to increase their stakes in the company in apparent attempts to outmaneuver each other for control.— Sydney EmberAfter days of sometimes wild moves in stock markets, investors on Wall Street refocused on the ongoing strength in the American economy as shares of consumer companies helped lead broad indexes higher.A sometimes-panicky global market sell-off — begun Monday when the Standard & Poors 500-stock index lost more than 4 percent, its worst decline since August 2011 — dissipated through the day, and the S.&P. 500 ended Tuesdays session up by about 1.7 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average gained about 2.3 percent.The consumer discretionary sector of the S.&P. 500 jumped by more than 2 percent, pulled higher by strength in well-known consumer-facing companies like Amazon, Netflix and Home Depot. General Motors also rose after reporting strong earnings and strong demand for its pickup trucks and SUVs.Investors appeared to reassess whether the previous days violent decline—the S.&P. suffered its worst decline since August 2011—reflected actual fundamentals or was merely a long-overdue outbreak of investor jitters.For months, markets seemed to sleepwalk higher, as measures of volatility—the ups and downs of stock prices—hit historically low levels. Investors appeared to grow accustomed to an economic backdrop in which growth and inflation remained lackluster, a state of affairs that ensured powerful global central banks would continue to support markets with a range of policies.AdvertisementBut the peaceful climb ended over the past week amid worries that solid economic growth in the United States and abroad could be showing early signals of growing inflation pressure. Those concerns drove yields on long-term Treasury bonds sharply higher in recent weeks, as economic data—such as the U.S. jobs report on Friday—showed wages growing at their fastest clip in years.— Matt PhillipsThe Walt Disney Company on Tuesday became the latest prominent company to report solid earnings amidst the market turmoil. The strong numbers support the belief that plunging stock markets do not reflect weakness in the real economy.Disney made $1.89 per share in the last three months of 2017, after excluding a tax benefit. That number is 22 percent higher than the $1.55 per share earnings in the same period of 2016. It is also well in excess of the $1.61 per share that Wall Street analysts had forecast for the latest quarter.Disney did best in its parks and resorts business, which reported $1.35 billion of operating income, which was 21 percent higher than the year-earlier period. The earlier periods results were somewhat depressed by the impact of Hurricane Matthew, Disney said. In its press release, the company noted that higher profits at its domestic parks and resorts were driven by an increase in guest spending and an increase in attendance, which underscores consumers willingness to spend more. On the other hand, the company said parks and resorts are dealing with higher labor costs and other expenses. That may not be lost on investors who are starting to see inflation as a threat to stock prices.— Peter EavisThe company reported earnings after the close that easily beat analysts expectations.The Numbers• Snap reported revenue rose 72 percent to $285.7 million, easily exceeding the $252.9 million expected by analysts.• The company lost 13 cents per share, below estimates of 16 cents a share.• Snap added 8.9 million daily active users for a total of 187 million, compared to the 184.2 million estimated.The ContextSnaps shares have struggled since its initial public offering in March 2017. The stock fell below its I.P.O price of $17 a share last summer and has remained below that level since. If Snaps after-hours gains hold up on Wednesday, the stock will be on the cusp of crossing back over its I.P.O. level.AdvertisementThe stock markets slide over the past week has given investors plenty of anxiety.Stocks have lost roughly $4 trillion in value. The Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 endured their worst point declines in their histories Monday and their largest percentage drops since 2011. C.B.O.E. Volatility Index surged more than 100 percent Monday, the biggest increase in its history.But there are reasons investors shouldnt get too concerned.1) Heading into the final hour of trading, the markets have rebounded strongly. The Dow has jumped 2 percent, while the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite are up 1.6 percent and 1.9 percent. That suggests that worst of the sell-off may be passed.2) The outlook for economic growth is strong in the United States. The American economy grew 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter and the Atlanta Feds GDPNow tracker forecasts a 4 percent rise in the first quarter.3) Corporate Americas bottom line is growing. With 50 percent of the companies in the S.&P. 500 having reported results, profits are on pace to grow 13.4 percent, according to FactSet. If that growth rate holds through the end of earnings, it would mark the third quarter in the past four that S.&P. 500 companies have reported a double-digit profits increase.4) The sell-off comes after a big run-up in stocks. Until Monday, the Dow and the S.&P. 500 hadnt endured a pullback of 5 percent in more than 400 sessions. Since 1929, a 5 percent decline happens every 92 days on average, according to Goldman Sachs. So stocks were arguably due for a selloff. But it should be noted that after Mondays declines the Dow was at levels last seen in, well, mid-December and was up more than 30 percent since the 2016 election.Strategists over at Goldman Sachs wrote:The stock market correction appears to be more technical and positioning-driven rather than fundamentally-based.We believe the fundamental drivers of the equity market remain intact and reiterate our S&P 500 year-end 2018 forecast of 2850.The company, founded by Elon Musk, achieved a new milestone with a successful test launch of its Falcon Heavy rocket, the most powerful rocket in operation in the world today.Heres a video of the launch:When stock markets are plunging, sober-minded investors try to gauge the underlying strength of bellwether companies, to see whether all the selling is justified.That is why many eyes will be on the earnings of the Walt Disney Company, which reports after the close of regular trading Tuesday. If the company releases stronger-than-expected results for the three months through the end of December, it will reinforce a general sense of optimism about corporate America .AdvertisementStellar results from Disney would add to a strong earnings report on Tuesday from General Motors, which helped push the companys shares 3 percent higher. Micron Technology, a large maker of computer chips, on Monday upped its outlook for the current quarter. Its shares soared 7.7 percent on Tuesday.Though Disney is not a high growth company, its results offer insight into the strength of consumer spending. As a result, if the company reports earnings that are below the forecasts of Wall Street analysts, it may add to the unease among investors..The numbers to watch: Analysts expect Disney to earn $1.61 per share, and take in $15.44 billion in revenue in the quarter, according to data from Bloomberg.Of course, a lot more companies are going to have to report strong earnings to convince investors to jump back into the stock market. One of the reasons that stocks rallied in recent months is that analysts are expecting a 20-percent plus jump in profits in 2018, an eye-popping rise. The more large companies that hit their numbers in this earnings season, the more likely the stock market will find a floor.— Peter EavisAt a hearing of the Senate banking committee on Tuesday, Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama asked the heads of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission about the market turmoil.Is this perhaps more than an ordinary correction? Mr. Shelby asked.Jay Clayton, the chairman of the S.E.C. said that he could not tell what had caused the big declines, but he said that the market infrastructure had held up well under the strain of heavy trading.As I sit here today, theres nothing that came out of this that concerns me, Mr. Clayton said.Christopher Giancarlo, the chairman of the C.F.T.C. said that his staff had a late night on Monday checking in with all the exchanges, and had not heard anything that concerned them.AdvertisementThe system worked as it was designed to do, he said.— Nathaniel PopperFollowing a House Financial Services Committee hearing, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said that he has been in touch with market participants this week and that they are reacting in an orderly fashion and that there are no liquidity problems. He said it was possible that algorithmic trading was partially responsible for the recent volatility in the stock market.I have heard from others that it has played a role, as theres more programmed trading, this tends to have volatility in both directions, he said.Despite that volatility, it does not appear that the Trump administration is ready to give up on the stock market as a measure of its success.Weve always been looking at the long-term impact of the stock market, its still up over 30 percent since the election and we continue to think American is a great place to do business, Mr. Mnuchin said. We couldnt be happier with companies response with more and more investments in the U.S.— Alan RappeportAsked about the roiled stock market at a House Financial Services Committee hearing on Tuesday, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said that the Trump administration was not concerned and that it remains focused on the long-term trajectory of the economy.We are very focused on long-term economic growth, and we believe that the policies that we have enacted, including tax reform are very positive for long-term economic growth, Mr. Mnuchin said.He said that he was closely monitoring for orderly market functioning and that there were no systemic issues that were reported to him.Im happy to report I got the green lights, Mr. Mnuchin said.The Treasury secretary said that given how much the market has rallied in the last year, he does not think the recent drop in prices raises financial stability concerns.AdvertisementAsked if the Trump administration will take the blame for the recent drop in stocks after taking credit for the rally, Mr. Mnuchin demurred.I think well still claim credit for the fact that its up over 30 percent since the election, he said of the stock market.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.— Alan RappeportWhen stock markets sell off as they have the past two trading sessions, there is often more than one cause. But one popular trade is taking a lot of blame for Mondays plunge: short volatility.Investors had piled money into exchange-traded products designed to rise when the C.B.O.E. Volatility Index, or VIX, falls. The VIX, known as the markets fear gauge, measures how volatile investors expect stock markets to be in the month ahead. Those wagers paid off handsomely, rising 180 percent last year as the VIX plumbed historic lows.That quickly reversed Monday. The VIX surged 117 percent in its biggest one-day jump on record and two short volatility exchange-traded product — VelocityShares Daily Inverse VIX Short-Term Exchange Traded Note, XIV, and Next Notes S&P 500 VIX Inverse ETN — endured heavy selling.The selling led Credit Suisse to say it is going to buy back XIV and after the bank has done that it will no longer exist. Nomura also said its Next Notes would be redeemed at a steep discount to their closing price on Monday in Asia, crystallizing large losses for investors, the WSJ reported.From Barclays:In our opinion, the significant spike in the VIX index and futures yesterday was technical in nature and does not necessarily indicate a true increase in risk perception.From Morgan Stanley:The near bankruptcy of the inverse VIX ETPs will be a very negative headline, and the several billion dollar loss for holders, largely retail, will scare some out of the market or force liquidations of other products to raise cash.From Nicholas Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research: Assuming volatility-related ETFs really are a market structure Achilles heel, this will take days if not weeks to play out, and there could be other problems waiting in the wings.— Stephen GrocerStock markets around the world appear headed down for a third straight trading day, after yesterdays 4 percent drop in the S.&P. 500. Here are the latest numbers:• Hong Kongs Hang Seng fell 5 percent.• Japans Nikkei was down 4.7 percent.• The U.K.s FTSE 100 was down 2 percent.• Wall Streets fear gauge, the VIX, is at its highest level in two and a half years.AdvertisementAnd heres some more context from our colleague Peter Eavis.The technical question: Has computer-driven unwinding of Goldilocks trades tied to peaceful market rises played a role here?The economic question: Economies are growing around the world, which is likely to mean rising wages and then, perhaps, inflation. So will central bankers have to raise rates more than previously expected?The political question: What does this mean for President Trump, who has touted stock market gains as a measure of his success?More from Ben White of Politico:This is a risk that the president clearly set himself up for, said Charles Gabriel of Capital Alpha Partners, a Washington research firm. Until now, Trumps had kind of a free ride in this market and taken so much credit for it, even though so much of it was due to easy-money policies from Janet Yellen and the Fed. Now shes out the door and volatility is back.Theres another way of thinking about Mr. Trumps role, Andrew writes in his latest column:Investors believe his policies to stoke growth are going to work so well that they will overheat the economy, and force the Federal Reserve to try to slow things down.But dont expect action from the newly sworn-in Fed chairman, Jay Powell — at least, not yet.A bit of humor, courtesy of our colleague Binyamin Appelbaum:Where Bitcoin was this morning: $6,628, down almost 16 percent over the past 24 hours, according to CoinMarketCap. Ethereums Ether and Ripples XRP fell by double digits, too.Whats happening: Regulators are clamping down on digital money, and scams and hacks are eroding trust in it.More from Nathaniel Popper of the NYT:Cryptocurrencies are almost a perfect vehicle for scams, said Kevin Werbach, a professor at University of Pennsylvanias Wharton School. The combination of credulous buyers and low barriers for scammers were bound to lead to a high level of fraud, if and when the money involved got large.Next: The heads of the S.E.C. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission are to talk Bitcoin with the Senate Banking Committee today.The House appears ready to vote on a stopgap bill; funding would otherwise expire at 12:01 a.m. on Friday.What it does: Pairs short-term funding for the government with long-term funding for the military.What it doesnt do: Include the increase in domestic spending demanded by Democrats, particularly Senate Democrats. Nor does it address immigration, which caused last months shutdown (though Senators John McCain and Chris Coons have a bipartisan proposal on that).AdvertisementExpect more give-and-take between the two sides of Congress:I think everyone understands that this will probably end up being a Ping-Pong situation, and well see where the ball lands, said Representative Carlos Curbelo, Republican of Florida.Elsewhere in policy• Most of President Trumps legal team wants to avoid letting Robert Mueller question him. (NYT)• Mr. Trump flippantly suggested that Democrats who sat through his State of the Union address stone-faced were guilty of treason. (NYT)• The House Intelligence Committee voted unanimously to release a Democratic memo tied to the investigation of a Trump campaign aide. Now its up to the White House. (Politico)• China is investigating U.S. sorghum exports, a move that threatens a widening trade standoff. (NYT)It depends whether AT&Ts bid for Time Warner goes through. Comcast dropped out of the running for Fox once it became clear that Rupert Murdoch would prefer a tie-up with Disney, but it is studying whether to rejoin the fray, CNBC reported.More from Alex Sherman of CNBC:An unsolicited offer at a premium to Disneys bid could persuade enough Fox shareholders to vote against Murdoch. His family controls 39 percent of Foxs Class B voting shares but owns only 17 percent of all outstanding shares. Comcast executives suggested to Murdoch last year they would be willing to pay significantly more for Foxs assets than what Disney was offering, said the people. Murdoch still went with the Disney offer, in large part due to regulatory concerns with Comcast.Elsewhere in the deal world• Archer-Daniels Midland is in advanced talks to buy Bunge, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• Kroger agreed to sell its convenience store business to the British investment firm EG Group for $2.15 billion. (FT)• Alibaba and an arm of the Chinese government have bought roughly 13 percent of Dalian Wandas movie business for $1.2 billion. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• Midstates Petroleum offered to merge with SandRidge Energy in an all-stock deal that would create a nearly $1 billion oil company. (Reuters)• Viacom is near a deal to buy the online video conference VidCon, unnamed sources say. (Variety)• Elliott Advisors continued to push BHP Billiton to simplify its dual-listed corporate structure. (FT)• Walmart has bought a virtual reality start-up, Spatialand, for its Store No. 8 incubator unit. (Recode)I talked to women engineers at Uber who were getting invited to strip clubs and bondage clubs in the middle of the day. The middle of the day! And often they would go because thats just what everyone was doing.Thats what Emily Chang of Bloomberg said about her reporting for Brotopia, her forthcoming book about the lopsided power dynamics in Silicon Valley. (NYT)The misconduct flyaround• Steve Wynn and his legal representatives set up a limited liability company solely to handle settlement funds, including $7.5 million for a manicurist who accused him of sexual assault. (WSJ)• Laurent Potdevin resigned as C.E.O. of Lululemon because, the company said, he had failed to exemplify the highest levels of integrity and respect for one another. (NYT)• A partner at the international law firm Baker McKenzie lost his job after allegations surfaced that he had sexually assaulted a female colleague. (FT)• Even with generous social policies, women in Scandinavia are still paid less than men, because they spend more time on child-rearing. (NYT)AdvertisementThe venture firm, which has invested in the likes of Groupon, Dollar Shave Club and Nutanix, has closed both its 12th venture fund, at $800 million, and its latest side fund for later-stage deals, at $450 million. (It also promoted Morad Elhafed to general partner.)Batterys latest investment focuses include big data, cloud and A.I. software, and consumer internet apps.From Michael Brown, a Battery general partner:The successful closing of Battery Ventures XII and Battery Ventures XII Side Fund illustrates our firms continuing, consistent growth through up-and-down market cycles, technology trends and new geographies over decades.The tech flyaround• The Uber-Waymo trial began with dueling sports metaphors. (NYT)• Meanwhile, Uber is working on its relationship with drivers. (Recode)• Isaac Choi, who was C.E.O. of the failed start-up WrkRiot, has pleaded guilty to defrauding employees. (Axios)• American and British lawmakers will convene to discuss their respective inquiries into social medias impact on elections. (Axios)• Facebook is hiring an extraterrestrial product manager to oversee an aerospace initiative. (CNBC)• Hudsons Bay, the parent of Saks and Lord & Taylor, has hired a new C.E.O.: Helena Foulkes, the president of CVSs pharmacy division. (NYT)• So has Avon: Jan Zijderveld, most recently the head of Unilevers European business. (FT)• President Trump plans to nominate Charles Rettig, a tax lawyer, to lead the I.R.S. (WSJ)Advertisement• Stephen Friend, a co-founder of Sage Bionetworks who joined Apples health care team, has left the tech giant. (CNBC)• Marco Santori, a partner at the law firm Cooley and an expert in initial coin offerings, has joined the virtual currency start-up Blockchain as its chief legal officer. (Axios)• Saudi Arabia is trying to untie itself from oil and tie itself to one of its other natural resources: sunlight. (NYT)• Renée James, a former No. 2 at Intel, is taking aim at the companys most lucrative business, which she helped to build. (NYT)• Two top editors and a reporter at Newsweek were fired on Monday in a purge that targeted employees involved in covering the companys financial and legal troubles. (NYT)• Melvyn I. Weiss, whose class-action lawsuits made him a pariah to corporate America, a hero to plaintiffs, a catalyst for legal protections of investors and consumers and finally a felon, died on Friday at 82. (NYT)• Romana Acosta Bañuelos, the U.S. treasurer under President Nixon, has died at 92. (NYT)• A lunch for Oscar nominees attracted protests over the lack of Hispanic characters in movies. (NYT)• James Gorman, asked to rate his time leading Morgan Stanley, gave himself an A-minus. (Bloomberg)Want this in your own email inbox? Heres the sign-up.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.AdvertisementWed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.The British firm Bell Pottinger, hired by three brothers now caught up in a nationwide corruption scandal, helped drive racial tensions to levels not felt since apartheid.By DAVID SEGALFEB. 4, 2018
LONDON — If an autopsy could have been performed on Bell Pottinger, Britains most audacious public relations firm, the cause of death may have been summarized as acute embarrassment.This is ironic because Bell Pottinger always seemed defiantly beyond shame. During its 30 years in the upper echelons of Britains spin doctoring game, it sought to polish the image of dictators (Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus), repressive regimes (Bahrain and Egypt, to name two) and celebrities accused of despicable crimes (the Olympic runner Oscar Pistorius after he was charged with murder).But in early 2016, Bell Pottinger signed a client that ultimately buried it in disgrace. The company worked for the Guptas, three brothers from India who built a sprawling, multibillion-dollar corporate empire in South Africa. Ajay, Tony and Atul Gupta had earned fantastic sums leveraging their friendship with President Jacob G. Zuma. By bullying officials and bending regulations to their will, they secured contracts in fields as varied as armaments, mining and railways. They offered ministerial jobs to politicians of their choosing. The Guptas and Mr. Zuma were so intertwined that critics had taken to referring to the Zupta regime.As the power of the Guptas and their holding company, Oakbay Investments, gained attention, the family wanted the public relations equivalent of a stun grenade — a distraction that would draw attention away from them and onto their many enemies.AdvertisementSo Bell Pottinger was retained, and given an assignment that initially sounded benign enough: grass-roots political activism intended to help poor blacks.AdvertisementBy the following year, Bell Pottinger was embroiled in a national maelstrom. In TV reports, editorials and public rallies, it stood accused of setting off racial tensions through a furtive campaign built on Twitter bots, hate-filled websites and speeches. All were pushing a highly toxic narrative, namely that whites in South Africa had seized resources and wealth while they deprived blacks of education and jobs. The message was popularized with an incendiary phrase, white monopoly capital.How Bell Pottinger went bankrupt is a tale of corporate skulduggery that seems lifted from House of Cards, the P.R. edition. During the Gupta disaster, a vicious boardroom struggle unfolded, one that pitted a co-founder, Tim Bell, against James Henderson, 53, who ran the firm in the years before it went under. Their conflict centered on the perennials of business potboilers, namely power and money.The story is also an inside look at the current, tormented state of politics in South Africa. Allegations of Gupta-related corruption surfaced gradually over the years, as officials and the media described how this once unknown family was ransacking South Africa and its institutions. President Zuma has since been swept up by investigations into the brothers amid an outcry that he let them hijack the government in a textbook example of state capture. With the economy sputtering, Mr. Zumas own party has called for his ouster.The scandal has engulfed the nation. Mr. Zuma is a member of the African National Congress, the party of Nelson Mandela and post-apartheid comity. His alliance with the Guptas, and their exploitation of racial animosity, has underscored just how far the party has wandered from its roots after winning its first election in 1994.Though the only corporate fatality, Bell Pottinger is just one of the companies tainted by the Guptas. A small coterie of multinationals is now under investigation by South African authorities, including local units of three companies, McKinsey, KPMG and the software giant SAP.The Guptas most devastating legacy is the harm they did to the cause of economic reform. With so many blacks in South Africa mired in poverty, the topic is urgent, but discussion about it has been debased by its association with a notorious and self-serving P.R. campaign.In the midst of that campaign, racial tensions rose to levels that had not been felt since apartheid. White monopoly capital, a phrase that for years had been confined to left-wing academic circles, was suddenly unavoidable. A political group with reported links to the Guptas warned of a coming civil war.AdvertisementWhen Bell Pottingers role became public, protesters rallied against the company, both in South Africa and outside the firms London office. A subsequent investigation by the Public Relations and Communications Association, a trade group in Britain, ended with the ejection of Bell Pottinger.In my years of running the P.R.C.A., I have never seen anything worse, never seen anything equal to it, Francis Ingham, director general of the trade association, said in an interview. The work was on a completely new scale of awfulness. Bell Pottinger may have set back race relations in South Africa by as much as 10 years.Within days of the firms removal from the trade association, clients were fleeing. By the end of September, all 250 employees were laid off and Bell Pottinger was finished.London is now home to a cluster of P.R. firms catering to foreign governments, raising worries that the city has become the global capital of reputation laundering, as The Evening Standard put it a few years ago. Bell Pottinger established the template of this lucrative niche.It was largely the brainchild of Tim Bell, who had earned his reputation, along with a knighthood, helping Margaret Thatcher win three elections. He came to fame with the Labour isnt working ads that helped the Conservative Party gain control of Parliament in the 1979 general election. Colleagues actually coined the phrase, and he talked Mrs. Thatcher into adopting it.There were many conversations in which she shouted at me and told me I was an idiot, he recalled. I just had to stand my ground and say, I know what Im doing.Now 77, Mr. Bell appears to have stepped directly out of an Evelyn Waugh novel with everything but a smoking jacket. Gray haired with an owlish pair of black glasses, he speaks with jaunty indifference and ingratiating candor, a combination that always made the tsk-tskers who disapproved of his client list sound unworldly and naïve.Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Morality is a job for priests, he deadpanned in a recent interview, between puffs of an ever-present cigarette. Not P.R. men.AdvertisementWith the company co-founder, Piers Pottinger, Mr. Bell conceived a go anywhere, do anything ethos, as they called it. When the pair started working together in the mid-80s, Mr. Bell was sought after by political leaders and corporations who wanted some of the communications magic he had provided to Mrs. Thatcher.Bell Pottinger quickly had hundreds of clients, a few of them infamous. Mr. Bell attributes his ability to work with virtually anyone to innate optimism.I see the good in people, he said.This included Chiles former dictator Augusto Pinochet. Mr. Pinochet was placed under house arrest in Britain in 1998 as part of an effort to deport him to Spain, where he had been indicted on a charge of torturing Spanish citizens.After two years of legal and political wrangling, Mr. Bell and his allies prevailed when Mr. Pinochet was authorized to freely return to Chile.Bell Pottinger was hardly the only British outfit working for rogues and despots, as well as publicly traded companies, nor was it the largest or most profitable. But it had a buccaneering spirit that made it the firm of choice for a wide variety of missions.During the war in Iraq, Bell Pottinger had a contract with the Pentagon to produce propaganda for the United States military. This included scripts in Arabic for a soap opera that aired in the country, said Mr. Bell. When the companys client list did not generate news, its methods did. In 2011, it was caught boasting about its skills in the dark arts of search engine manipulation to people it thought were potential clients.In fact, they were undercover members of the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a nonprofit organization that works with a variety of media. Posing as executives from the made-up Azimov Group, these representatives said the company had ties to the Uzbekistan regime, which has been criticized for repression and for using forced child labor during its cotton harvest.AdvertisementThe Azimov executives said they worried about blowback.Fret not, said Tim Collins, a Bell Pottinger managing director, per transcripts published by The Independent, a British newspaper. After the company applied its tech wizardry, You get to the point where even if they type in Uzbek child labour or Uzbek human rights violation, some of the first results that come up are sites talking about what you guys are doing to address and improve that, not just the critical voices saying how terrible this all is.Mr. Bell never challenged the transcripts, but he denounced the sting at the time as an unethical, underhand deception to manufacture a story where none exists.Bell Pottingers slide into oblivion began with a visit to the Guptas in January 2016. Mr. Bell, who had worked in South Africa for years, said he had no idea what the brothers wanted, but he and several colleagues flew to Johannesburg to find out.We went to this bloody great mansion, which seemed to be their headquarters, Mr. Bell recalled. Great big room, huge sofas all over the place. Servants. Appalling, all of it.The family already had a fortune, Tony Gupta told the small entourage. Now, he and his brothers wanted to help poor blacks. To that end, they wanted a P.R. campaign that pushed the idea of economic emancipation.So we went back to London and wrote a strategy, said Mr. Bell. Town hall meetings, marching in the street, that kind of thing. Draw attention to the economic imbalance, then tell people they should protest and demand change.The company drafted a two-page proposal, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times. Among its recommendations was a non-party political narrative around the existence of economic apartheid that Bell Pottinger would package into speeches, news releases, website content, videos/broadcast content, slogans and other material required.Soon, the Guptas said that their company needed communications help, too. Most South Africans, the Guptas maintained, had an inflated notion of how much of the familys revenue came from government contracts, which harmed their interests, several Bell Pottinger employees recalled.AdvertisementThe corporate campaign was the first sign that altruism had little to do with the £100,000 a month that Bell Pottinger would earn during what was initially a three-month project. The second was the anger of the companys other South Africa clients when they learned of the arrangement.The billionaire Johann Rupert was aghast to suddenly find himself one of the most prominent examples of white monopoly capital. He texted Mr. Bell and asked how his P.R. firm could also be working for a family that was bashing him. Mr. Bell, by his own account, quickly lost enthusiasm for the Gupta project.It was altogether smelly, he said of the racial element of the work. But he quickly added that ethics were not the issue. If enough South African clients quit Bell Pottinger, he reasoned, the losses would outweigh the Guptass checks. I was saying its not a commercially sensible thing to do.But by the end of March, only one client — the banking and asset management company Investec — had severed ties with the P.R. firm. After that, Bell Pottinger tried to find middle ground by signing a new contract with the Guptas, this time with a codicil literally called an anti-embarrassment clause. It allowed the firm to terminate the account without notice if the brothers brought discredit to the business.Mr. Bell said he soon resolved to quit the company because he felt undermined and undervalued by Mr. Henderson. He made my life a misery from start to finish, said Mr. Bell, speaking one recent afternoon in the living room of his home near Londons Sloane Square. After negotiating a £3.5 million exit package, Mr. Bell resigned in August 2016.For his part, Mr. Henderson declined in a recent interview to indulge in the put-downs that come so easily to his antagonist. Seated at a conference table in temporary offices in Mayfair, where he is starting a new P.R. firm, he said Bell Pottingers dissolution was too recent to discuss.I have huge empathy for all those impacted, he said, and believe now is not the appropriate time to go into details.The P.R. campaign in South Africa, which started in 2016, was intended to raise the temperature of race relations. And it worked.AdvertisementMore than 100 fake Twitter accounts were created, all of them retweeting content from other Twitter accounts with names like @economycapture, according to media reports. Popular hashtags included #WhiteMonopolyCapital and #RespectGuptas. The campaign involved some 220,000 tweets.There were also attack website with names like WMC Leaks and WMC Scams. Another part of this ecosystem were mainstream media outlets owned by the Guptas, like ANN7, a 24-hour news channel, and The New Age, a daily newspaper.As the campaign spread, leaders at groups like the A.N.C. Youth League gave inflammatory speeches, decrying the stranglehold that rich whites had on the economy. Leaked emails would later show that the groups received media training, and in some cases funds, from Oakbay.An atmosphere of menace slowly pervaded the country. In July 2016, the police minister announced the creation of a task force to investigate the murder of more than a dozen political figures. In the run-up to municipal elections that year, Mr. Zuma described the Democratic Alliance, the A.N.C.s main rival, as a white party, adding that it could not run this country no matter how they cover up by getting a few black stooges.New and radical groups like Black First Land First sprang up, holding public rallies to fulminate against whites. At one, in May 2016, a pastor named Xola Skosana told the crowd, We have been wounded beyond measure. Let us find the pillars and bring the house down. Black people must be avenged.For the first time in years, whites felt a rising sense of personal danger. Nicholas Wolpe, a white South African whose father was a pioneer of the anti-apartheid movement, remembers a palpable anxiety. There was a shift toward intolerance, he said. Gradually, the debate about white monopoly capital was everywhere and the people talking about it were loud and belligerent. It struck a nerve.In a related and surreptitious campaign, the Guptas were being recast as warmhearted people eager to help the downtrodden. A website connected to Black First Land First ran editorials defending the brothers, suggesting in one that they should be praised for saving jobs. Me and others felt that there was something strange going on under the surface of this onslaught, said Pieter-Louis Myburgh, author of The Republic of Gupta. Long before Bell Pottingers role became known, we smelled a rat.AdvertisementThe campaign coincided with a period in which the Guptas badly needed a makeover. The brothers had moved to South Africa from Uttar Pradesh in India in 1993 at the behest of their father, who thought the end of apartheid was a terrific business opportunity. The Guptas befriended a variety of A.N.C. luminaries, including Mr. Zuma.Relationships with politicians were soon producing results, said Mr. Myburgh. In 2016, South Africas Sunday Times listed Atul Gupta as the seventh richest man in the country, with a net worth equivalent to more than $700 million.The brothers had operated in relative obscurity until 2013, when a jet filled with some 200 guests attending the four-day wedding of a Gupta niece was given permission by a highly placed official to land at an air force base that ordinarily barred commercial traffic. The public was incensed.From there, the publicity would only get worse. Politicians described being summoned to the Gupta compound and offered ministerial jobs and, on occasion, multimillion-dollar bribes.In March 2016, a onetime A.N.C. member of Parliament named Vytjie Mentor wrote on Facebook, and later in a sworn affidavit, that the Guptas said she could become minister of public enterprises, though only if she helped cancel the India route flown by South African Airways. (The Guptas had links to a rival.) When she declined, Jacob Zuma ambled into the room and told her, in Zulu, Its OK, girl. Take care of yourself, according to the affidavit.Bell Pottingers work for the Guptas was not widely known until November 2016, when a video interview of Ajay Gupta, arranged by the company, leaked to the media. The content of the interview was largely banal. It was proof, though, that one of Britains most famous P.R. firms was helping the brothers.The leak alarmed Mr. Henderson because the video resided exclusively on the companys servers. Mr. Henderson hired Pelican Worldwide, a corporate intelligence firm, to determine whether someone had hacked Bell Pottingers system. When no signs of hacking were found, suspicion inside the company fell on Jonathan Lehrle and Darren Murphy, two executives who would depart in December 2016 and start a new P.R. firm with Mr. Bell.Both men deny involvement.Bell Pottingers links to the Guptas went full-on radioactive in March of last year, when a mysterious 21-page report was posted on the website of the South African Communist Party. Written anonymously and without any cited sources, the report laid out the history of Bell Pottingers work for the Guptas, tagging the firm as the brains behind Twitter hashtags, like #HandsofftheGuptas and an array of bogus social media accounts.AdvertisementMr. Henderson issued a news release asserting the report contained statements that were wholly untrue.He had a point.Although Bell Pottinger was widely blamed for the social media campaign, a forensic analysis performed by the African Network of Centers for Investigative Reporting concluded that it was created and overseen by employees and affiliates of the Guptas. In a report called Manufacturing Divides, the network found that much of the campaign was run out of a Gupta-financed war room at a marketing firm in India.Instead, the role of Bell Pottinger was to keep a close eye on social media related to the Guptas and their enemies. A cache of some 200,000 internal documents, christened the GuptaLeaks, that wound up in the media last summer, includes a Bell Pottinger presentation titled Gupta Family online landscape briefing document. It tracks mentions of the Guptas and a list of hashtags and keywords, some pro-Gupta, some anti-Gupta.Sentiment is more positive in conversations online compared to yesterday, the report states.Likewise, there is scant evidence that Bell Pottinger promoted white monopoly capital, the phrase that helped doom it. A law firm report commissioned by the company later concluded that employees of the firm had used the phrase on occasion. That is more often than is defensible, though it hardly explains the terms sudden vogue.The 21-page document had credibility, however, because it contained details that only insiders could have known, some of which were utterly gratuitous. Like the cost to rent the Italian villa for the wedding of Victoria Geoghegan, the Bell Pottinger executive who led the South African team.A few days after the report went public, an anti-Zuma demonstration in South Africa included anti-Bell Pottinger placards. One showed a photograph of Ms. Geoghegan with blood dripping from her lips and the words Guptas Girl over her head. A demonstration in front of Bell Pottingers London office soon followed.In April, Bell Pottinger canceled its deal with the Guptas, citing increasingly strong social media attacks on our staff and our business. It didnt help.Nor did Mr. Hendersons unequivocal and absolute apology in July, or his resignation in September the day before Britains P.R. trade group tossed out Bell Pottinger. The company suffered £8 million worth of client losses in 48 hours and layoffs began soon after.AdvertisementOther companies linked, both directly and indirectly, with the Guptas are just beginning to deal with fallout of their own. The South African Companies and Intellectual Property Commission is pursuing criminal complaints that emerged from an investigation into state contracts and the Gupta-Zuma nexus, which have ensnared KPMG, SAP and McKinsey.A spokeswoman for KPMG said in a statement that apologies have been made to those affected, adding that nine senior partners at the company had departed. SAP issued a statement in October apologizing wholeheartedly and noting that three staff members had been placed on leave. McKinsey has denied involvement in acts of bribery or corruption and issued a statement saying, We are sorry for the distress this matter has caused the people of South Africa.For its part, Bell Pottinger never shook allegations that it ran that vitriolic social media campaign, nor that it was responsible for injecting white monopoly capital into the national dialogue.Clearly, Bell Pottinger was not an innocent bystander, and for a crisis management firm, it did a terrible job of managing this crisis. At least a dozen chances were missed to avert calamity.As chief executive at the time, I take culpability for not closing down the account in the early stages, Mr. Henderson said in an interview. Whilst I was not involved at any time in any way in the account, I should have taken action earlier.Its errors notwithstanding, the company ended up being blamed for an even greater number of misdeeds than it actually committed, and it is worth asking how that happened.Former employees contend that they were the target of — what else? — a furtive P.R. campaign.Inside Bell Pottinger, it was widely believed that Mr. Bell wanted to damage the company just enough to weaken Mr. Henderson and compel a change of leadership.Rubbish, said Mr. Bell, who stated that he had nothing to do with the 21-page report. At the same time, he readily acknowledges that he started plans to take control of Bell Pottinger as soon as he left it. He hoped to line up investors and buy up enough shares to force out Mr. Henderson. He said he abandoned the plan after deciding that the firm was beyond saving.AdvertisementThe Gupta-Bell Pottinger campaign backfired on just about everyone, especially the Guptas. In an August statement, the brothers said they intended to sell all of their South African holdings by the end of 2017.Mr. Zuma could soon be removed by his party over issues of corruption and the stagnant economy. His term was supposed to end in 2019, but Cyril Ramaphosa, the man who became head of the A.N.C. in December, has called for Mr. Zuma to step down. A judicial inquiry was recently announced to investigate state capture and the presidents relationship to the Guptas.A spokesman for the Guptas did not return emails. President Zuma has repeatedly denied all accusations of corruption.Mr. Henderson lost everything when the firm failed, starting with his reputation. He became known as the guy in charge of a public relations company that perished in a public relations fiasco.The British media reported that he lost his entire lifes savings when Bell Pottinger evaporated and for a time, he also seemed to have lost his fiancée. The American socialite Heather Kerzner had invested a sizable chunk of her personal wealth in Bell Pottinger four months before it went under. The wedding was originally scheduled for November. Mr. Henderson said the couple hoped to marry.Thats our intention, he said.But arguably the greatest casualty of the Gupta-Bell Pottinger campaign is the very cause it nominally championed, helping impoverished blacks. Like most propaganda, the ideas promoted by the Guptas contained kernels of truth. The economic advancement of blacks postapartheid has indeed been painfully slow.The topic is now exponentially more fraught, given its association with the Guptas, who tried to use it as a way to enrich themselves and expand their power. For a young democracy that is grappling with a history of institutionalized racism and trying to spread wealth more evenly throughout the country, the results have been tragic.The damage done by this campaign is not over, said Sipho Pityana, a businessman who headed the Department of Labour under the Mandela administration. It shapes the discourse about inequality in South Africa to this day.A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Rogues, Despots and the Collapse of a P.R. Firm.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Former residents of Chicagos Cabrini-Green were thrown into a system that increasingly leaves the poor to fend for themselves.By BEN AUSTENFEB. 6, 2018
On a December morning in 1989, amid a snowstorm, Annie Ricks let her third-oldest son, Cornelius, stay home from middle school. For months, she and her eight children had been sleeping on the floors of relatives apartments or in the lobby of the Cook County Hospital. She had lived on Chicagos West Side, within the same few blocks, since moving there as a 10-year-old from a segregated mill town in Alabama. But her West Side apartment and every belonging in it had burned in a fire. Without a fixed address, she stopped receiving the public-assistance checks that had helped stretch what she earned in a factory molding plaster figurines.When she considered the fact of her predicament, it simply didnt make sense: Annie Jeffery Ricks was homeless? At 33, shed been providing since she was a teenager. Her children were well fed and neatly dressed, their hair combed and cut and braided. The girls as well as the boys played basketball, and Ricks volunteered in their classrooms and attended their games. She had never before considered public housing and knew nothing of Cabrini-Greens reputation — that it had entered the pantheon of proper names of the scariest places in urban America. But she had put in an application and couldnt wait any longer. She told Cornelius they were going to get their apartment that day and walk the seven miles to Cabrini-Green in the snow.Ricks was shown a 15-story plain box of a high-rise, a giant filing cabinet with a facade the color of cigarette-stained teeth. The elevators were out of order, the stairwells dark. Built in stages beginning in the 1940s on Chicagos Near North Side, Cabrini-Green consisted of barracks-style rowhouses and 23 towers. When Ricks arrived, more than a third of the 3,600 units were vacant. The Chicago Housing Authority said it couldnt afford to do the repairs to ready them for occupancy, and not just at Cabrini. The C.H.A. had a stock of 42,000 apartments, but the number in use had fallen to fewer than 33,000.The vacant fifth-floor apartment Ricks entered looked like a crypt. Plywood covered the windows. The kitchen cabinets dangled or were missing altogether. Ricks surveyed the surroundings, counting four bedrooms. There was a full bathroom on one side of the unit and a half bath on the other. The front room was large enough for a dining table and a sofa, and it was connected to the kitchen, which (she checked) had a working stove and refrigerator. The ceilings were high, the walls made of seemingly indestructible cinder block. Ricks had freckles that wandered the bridge of her nose and reached her high cheekbones, which now sharpened to points as she smiled. What she saw looked like a home.AdvertisementRicks lived at Cabrini-Green for the next 21 years. She worked as a teachers aide in the local schools that most of her own (eventual) 13 children attended. She babysat, ran an after-school program and served free lunches out of the field house by her high-rise. She moved her aging mother in with them, and Rickss grown children found jobs in construction, home health care, retail and at a new residential complex built atop the old Madison Street skid row, an area refashioned into the West Loop. Ricks didnt leave Cabrini after one of her nephews was hit with several bullets through her apartment window — his heart stopped twice before he survived. She stuck it out as the city demolished every other public-housing high-rise in Chicago not reserved for the elderly, including all the towers at Cabrini-Green save hers. After the start of this civic remodeling, in 1999, Mayor Richard M. Daley said that breaking up the severe concentrations of poverty of high-rise public housing would finally imbue long-neglected neighborhoods with vitality; the mostly black residents who lived there in social and economic isolation would be able to reap the rewards of the resurgent city. I want to rebuild their souls, Daley declared. But Ricks believed her soul was doing all right on its own. She refused to go, in 2010, even as every neighbor remaining in her building took whatever replacement housing was offered them. She outlasted them all. Im the last woman standing, Ricks liked to declare.Ricks held firm to a belief that if she followed the rules, if she kept up her part in an agreement, then she was entitled to all that was promised her. Her three youngest children — Reggie, Rose and Raqkown — were still on her lease, along with two of her nearly 40 grandchildren. She wasnt in her apartment illegally, she contended. She paid her rent on time. No one caught her with drugs or guns. So how could the C.H.A. just assign her a new unit? But the city took her to court, and a federal judge gave her 10 days to vacate the building. That was that. I had to go, she conceded. Either that or be homeless again.As it had the day she arrived at Cabrini-Green, snow covered the ground on the December morning in 2010 that she left. A crowd of reporters jostled the last high-rise tenants of what had been the citys and the countrys most well-known public-housing project. An inglorious end to an infamous era, as one news outlet put it. Another described Cabrini-Green as the housing development that came to symbolize the squandered hope of them all. Deonta Ricks lugged a cardboard box filled with his mothers most prized possessions: the trophies he and his siblings had won for basketball tournaments and perfect attendance and the one he was awarded for being valedictorian of the school that was still there, an empty field away. The Cabrini-Green neighborhood, only a few blocks west of the ritzy Gold Coast, had a new library and police station, new shopping and upscale housing. The school, too, had been renamed and given a makeover, and it now served only those students who tested in, ranking it among the best elementaries in Illinois. Rose, then 17, rolled a suitcase with a Route 66 sticker on it. Ive been here basically my whole life, she said. Like its hard leaving when youve got so much memories of it. You knew everyone. You felt safe.AdvertisementWhen the trophies were stowed and the furniture loaded onto a truck, Annie Ricks ducked into a sedan the same off-white color as her high-rise. The car spun its wheels on the snow and gained traction, and she was gone.The fate of public housing in America — its rise, much of it in the form of towers like Cabrini-Green, and its fall as those towers came down — is the story of urban poverty as an unsteady political priority. In his first year as president, in 1933, Franklin D. Roosevelt created the federal Housing Division, as part of the Public Works Administration. The P.W.A. built the countrys first 51 public-housing developments, including three in Chicago. By then the shortcomings of the for-profit real estate market were evident in eviction riots, in sprawling homeless encampments and in cities overflowing with mile after mile of cheap, decrepit frame dwellings. In segregated black neighborhoods, where families were excluded from competing for housing on the open market, the conditions were more dire. Without government intervention in some form, private developers and landlords were never going to build or maintain anywhere near enough homes for the urban poor. Like other New Deal assistance programs — relief for farmers, aid to senior citizens through Social Security, food stamps — public housing treated poverty as a widespread social and economic injustice that the country was obligated to right. The subsidy was also intended to help jump-start the economy by rebuilding moribund cities and creating jobs. In 1937, Congress passed more extensive legislation, establishing a federal housing agency; Chicago and other cities formed their own housing authorities to operate the program locally. I see one-third of a nation ill housed, ill clad, ill nourished, Roosevelt announced that year. The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have too little.Then, as now, the idea of government-run housing was maligned as anticapitalist and socialist; it clashed with a national ethos wrapped up in visions of the frontiersman and the self-made entrepreneur. When the Housing Act of 1937 was being debated, it was opposed by real estate trade groups and property owners associations, by builders, suppliers, the U.S. Chambers of Commerce and the departments of the Interior and the Treasury. Although the subsidy was reserved for only stable families with modest incomes — the deserving poor — the ceiling on what qualifying residents could earn was said to discourage hard work, acting as a sap on initiative and pluck. Ayn Rands The Fountainhead dramatized the backlash against Roosevelts call for a deeper social contract of shared responsibility: The hero of the 1943 novel is an architect of a public-housing complex who becomes enraged when he returns from a trip to discover that his bare-bones high-rise has been compromised to include the expense of incomprehensible features like balconies, a gymnasium, extra doorways and decorative brickwork. In an act portrayed as a valiant defense of his convictions, he dynamites the entire building. Maybe most telling, the same Depression-era legislation that funded the first public-housing complexes also created the federally insured private home loan. With this revolution in home financing, buyers were able to put down as little as 10 percent of a houses cost and pay off their mortgages in small increments over an unprecedented 30 years. Even today, the federal government devotes three times as much each year to mortgage-interest deductions and other subsidies to the speculative real estate market — essentially public housing for homeowners — than to the entire annual budget of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.The first public-housing developments were often simple and unadorned brick rowhouses or duplexes. They were required to be built to minimum standards, so as not to compete with the private rental market, and the overall populations were diverse, in part because federal rules dictated that public housing couldnt change the existing racial makeup of a neighborhood. In the 1950s, cities began to build massive complexes of clustered towers encircled by plots of land closed off to through streets. It was a purity of modernist city planning, influenced by the avant-garde towers in the park urban reimagining of the Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier. The density and nearly identical stripped-down designs of the high-rises were also believed to cut down on costs while meeting greater demand.Its almost like I died and went to heaven, one of the first tenants of a development in Chicago recalled years later. J.S. Fuerst, the former head of research and statistics at the C.H.A., collected this testimonial and dozens of others like it from early occupants of the agencys properties for a 2003 book titled When Public Housing Was Paradise. Even though these were low-income communities of thousands of people crammed together on isolated plazas, many families still found a modest home to be somehow divine after the damnation of the cold-water flats they left behind. There, they had been afraid of fires and sickness and eviction. Public housing, by contrast, was new and orderly. All the families went through a screening process. The buildings had teams of janitors on call around the clock. Groundskeepers maintained the gardens and lawns. There was a city agency responsible for answering calls. The C.H.A.s first executive director, Elizabeth Wood, worried not that the new developments might be too large and come to define an area as low-rent, but rather that they wouldnt be large enough to counteract the damaging effects of poverty and disrepair around them. If it is not bold, she said in 1945, the result will be a series of small projects, islands in a wilderness of slums beaten down by smoke, noise and fumes.Across the entire country, a majority of public housing remained in low-rises; there were eventually more than 3,000 local authorities, most with fewer than 500 units. But large housing projects came to dominate urban landscapes and symbolize for many the unruliness and otherness of the inner city in decline. The towers-in-the-park design was only ever partly to blame. In Chicago, as elsewhere, high-rise developments were built intentionally in neighborhoods that were already segregated racially; rather than apportioning the working poor across a number of areas and helping to diversify cities, public housing had the effect of solidifying racial and economic boundaries in superblocks detached from the street grid, in towers of concrete and steel. Yet they were also perennially underfunded and perilously mismanaged. The developments were allowed to deteriorate as maintenance and repairs lagged. And as the broader fortunes of cities declined — diminishing populations and disappearing jobs, spiking poverty and crime and drug use — public housing bore the worst of those effects.Soon, those same broad trends were used to justify abandoning the basic democratic idea of providing shelter for all. In 1972, when the 33 Pruitt-Igoe towers in St. Louis began to be imploded a mere 18 years after the complex fully opened, the televised image, with its mushrooming cloud of dust and debris, defined the popular notion of the public-housing experiment: It needed to be destroyed.For other cities, demolition still remained a political and practical impossibility. In previous decades when slums were cleared, those displaced were sent into public housing. Now where could tens of thousands of people from the projects be sent? But the aversion to social safety-net programs only came to root more deeply in the American mainstream. After retaking Congress in 1994, Republicans said they planned to scrap the federal housing agency entirely. President Clinton, promoting his cuts to the welfare system and proclaiming the era of big government is over, pre-emptively reorganized HUD. The agency promised to infuse market discipline into public housing. The anti-urban impulse that had sent middle-class families to the suburbs had reversed itself, and young professionals were flocking to city centers near their jobs and one another.AdvertisementIn 1990, Chicagos population started to tick up for the first time in 40 years; the area surrounding Cabrini-Green added 4,000 white residents during the previous decade, and vacant lots that had sold for $30,000 a few years earlier were being snapped up for five times that amount. As the fortunes of cities changed once again, public housing experienced a new pressure. HUD began to award municipalities tens of millions of dollars in grants to tear down their public-housing high-rises and replace them with much smaller developments that mixed public-housing families with higher-income renters and market-rate owners. Proposals to preserve some of the towers, filling in the cleared land around them with a variety of housing types, were rejected. Many low-rise developments in rejuvenating areas were targeted as well. A majority of the relocated public-housing residents were given Section 8 vouchers to rent from landlords in the private market. Nationwide, 250,000 public-housing units have been demolished since the 1990s. Atlanta, Baltimore, Columbus, Memphis, New Orleans, Philadelphia, Tucson — just about every American city got in on the action. But no city knocked down as many as Chicago.The C.H.A. moved Annie Ricks six miles away, to Chicagos South Side, into Wentworth Gardens, a low-rise public-housing development built just after World War II. Since then, Wentworth had become sandwiched between the 14 lanes of the Dan Ryan Expressway and the parking lots for the White Sox baseball stadium. The only place nearby to buy groceries was a gas station and liquor store on the far end of the complex. But the units were modernized, and Rickss four-bedroom had a new kitchen and bathroom. Her apartment was on the second floor of a three-story walk-up, part of attached buildings that formed a horseshoe around a shared courtyard. In her living room, she hung photos of her family, three pictures of President Obama and a couple of prayers and rules: Men dont wear hats in the house.Ricks wanted to remain upbeat about the move. But when violence broke out at her new home, the longtime Wentworth residents said it was the fault of the newcomers, the outsiders from Cabrini-Green, a number of whom had been moved there. An elderly woman announced for Rose to hear that she didnt like the Cabrini people and wanted them gone. When Reggie and Raqkown tried to play basketball at the courts beside their apartment, the guys there threw elbows and fists, trying to turn the game into a brawl. A group of boys jumped Reggie in the courtyard. Other former Cabrini residents who ended up there had guns pulled on them. People at Wentworth think youre stepping on their turf, Ricks said. This is not your turf. This is C.H.A.s turf. You cant run me from my home. Because I do pay rent.She often made the trip to visit her friends at the remaining strip of rowhouses at Cabrini-Green. She went to the jazz concerts held in the nearby park. Like many relocated families, she felt safer in the vestiges of the old neighborhood. When Raqkown, Rickss youngest, left his high school most days, he traveled to the field house at Cabrini. The principal at the neighborhood elementary school said two-thirds of his students were former Cabrini families who took the bus and train long distances to get there. Several Cabrini-Green Facebook pages formed, people reporting job opportunities and business ventures, sharing words of inspiration and announcements of deaths in the Cabrini family. Oftentimes a post showed a photo of one of the disappeared high-rises — Who can say what building this is? — leading to long threads of competing memories.On an airless Saturday night in the summer of 2012, Ricks stepped outside into the Wentworth courtyard. Shed been confined to her apartment all day taking care of grandchildren and wanted to relax. She set up a small table, placing atop it a transistor radio and a can of bug spray. She popped open a bottle of iced tea she bought at the gas station and tuned the radio to a gospel station. Then she was startled by screaming in the distance. She recognized the voice before she saw him: Reggie. He came racing toward her out of the darkness with Raqkown sprinting beside him. A mob of men were at their heels. Her sons dashed past her and up the stairs to their apartment, their pursuers rushing past as well. Rose, who was inside, opened the door for her brothers, and the Wentworth guys charged in behind them, colliding into her. Ricks ran up the stairs after them. Home invasion! she cried.In the cramped apartment, one invader knocked a television off the wall and stomped his foot through it. They pushed over a chest of drawers and threw chairs. Reggie, who was bleeding from his head, lifted a cooking pot off the stove and swung it to fend off blows. Rose armed herself with a mop. Their mother usually carried a fist of keys with her, and she now punched with it. She held the aerosol can of bug repellent as well, and she sprayed it into any face close by. Im just going to say it like this, Ricks said later that night, we did whatever we had to do to get their asses out of our house.For the next two weeks, Ricks stayed with a son in the Cabrini rowhouses. One of her older daughters put up Reggie and Raqkown. Rose moved in temporarily with another sibling in the western suburbs. A social-service provider asked Ricks if she wanted to go to a shelter. She didnt. A shelter wasnt any place to live. Thats like giving up, Ricks said. With the home invasion, her old stubbornness returned. No way was she going to be cheated out of a four-bedroom again. Not this time. She was going to keep her family together.She put in for a transfer to a different C.H.A. development along the lakefront, and she documented every time she phoned the agency to get an update. She checked in with a pro bono lawyer who agreed to take her case, asking when she should expect to move.AdvertisementJust trying to get them to confirm that youre eligible to be on the wait list for a four-bedroom, he told her.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.So how long will that be?I wish I knew. I think theyll respond to me. Ill bother them until they do. I think this is going to be taken care of. Its not going to be done quickly.It should be quickly, because youre my lawyer, Ricks said.I may be a lawyer; however, Im not a magician.She ended up cutting ties with him. Hed been emailing the C.H.A. since July, but three months later, her situation remained the same. Im not prejudiced, she said. But if Id have been white, hed have moved me the very same day. He doesnt have to live in Wentworth Gardens, in the ghetto, as they say.Across the highway from Wentworth Gardens, the 28 towers of the Robert Taylor Homes had stretched in a narrow band for two miles, looming in groups of three like sentinels for almost 50 years. But the entire housing project was torn down by 2007. The cleared land remained vacant. Unlike the Cabrini-Green site, the area couldnt attract the higher rents or the sale of market-rate apartments to support a new mixed-income development. Mixed-income replacement buildings did offer public-housing families a better place to live. But the restrictions on entry excluded many, and interactions within the buildings were often tense. Most of all, the blended populations and low densities (as well as the crash of the housing market, which put a halt to most construction) meant they met just a small percentage of the need. In Chicago today, fewer than 3,000 public-housing families live in one of the mixed-income complexes.Many more families were like the Rickses, people who went from run-down public housing to rehabbed public housing, albeit still in areas of concentrated poverty. The same proved true for those who moved with a voucher. The C.H.A. currently oversees 16,000 units of occupied public housing, more than a third of which are designated for the elderly, and 47,000 vouchers in the private market. The combination of the two exceeds what the agencys total supply of housing was in the 90s. Nationally, the number of families using a Section 8 rent subsidy has doubled over the last 25 years, to 2.3 million. In theory, a voucher gives a family the choice to live anywhere. But the rents the federal government pays to Section 8 landlords are generally not enough for a home in a diverse neighborhood with strong schools and low crime; most landlords taking vouchers arent in opportunity areas but in poor and racially isolated ones not so different from the razed government-run high-rises. In 2003, an independent monitor of the C.H.A.s first years of relocations offered a bleak assessment: The result has been that the vertical ghettos from which the families are being moved are being replaced with horizontal ghettos, located in well defined, highly segregated neighborhoods.The families that were dispersed from Chicagos demolished public housing have been blamed for the citys recent surge in gun violence, as well as for crime in the suburbs, the greater Midwest and even parts of the South. Several studies have shown that C.H.A. residents did not spread disorder wherever they settled, as if they carried an infectious disease. But these families were moved primarily to areas of Chicago that were already hollowed out of population, schools, occupied homes, jobs and resources. In South Shore, which took on more Section 8 renters than any other neighborhood in the city, 3,700 apartments were caught up in foreclosures, one out of every five rental units. The problems of concentrated poverty and isolation, which the demolitions were supposed to solve, persisted — and relocated families now found themselves in strange territory without their former support networks. People in public housing had, by necessity, bartered services, shopped together, shared food, stepped up when a neighbor lost a loved one. Annie Rickss oldest daughter, Kenosha, left Cabrini-Green when she was in her 20s and moved with her family to a block on the West Side. Ive been out here almost a decade, and I know three or four of my neighbors, she told me recently.  They from the projects, people say. But they dont know me. They werent raised how we were raised. We were raised to stick together. If youre a neighbor, you let the next neighbor know whats going on. They dont do that out here.Developments like Cabrini-Green did in fact need to be made safer and more livable, and maybe even torn down. But the public had an obligation as well to ensure that those who lived there didnt lose out when the high-rises were replaced. Virtually no new public housing has been built in the country in decades. Theres still a stock of over a million units nationwide, down from a peak of 1.4 million. Much of it is at risk. A HUD-commissioned study in 2010 found a $26 billion backlog in repair and maintenance needs, a figure estimated to have ballooned since then to more than $50 billion. Each year, some 10,000 to 15,000 units are lost solely because of neglect. The New York City Housing Authority had long avoided the failings that troubled authorities in other big cities. Towers in New York are the norm; maintenance and management remained strong, and high demand for housing allowed for renters with a greater range of incomes. But the citys 2,500 buildings, home to 400,000 New Yorkers, now need $17 billion in unmet repairs. The problem is often worse in small cities and less-urban areas, because there is no other supply of low-income rentals once dilapidated public housing is shuttered. HUD, rather than trying to replenish its dangerously insufficient capital fund, submitted a 2018 budget that would slash it by another two-thirds.All of this comes amid an affordable-housing crisis that is as urgent as it is unheeded. Today, only one of every five families poor enough to qualify for a housing subsidy actually receives one. A quarter of all renters nationwide pay more than half their income in rent. Families are forced to make harmful choices between rent and food, doctors visits and education costs. In their search for what public-housing agencies had promised as the minimal requirement of a decent, safe and sanitary home, the poor have been pushed farther from the economic activity and opportunities of city centers. The current head of the Chicago Housing Authority, Eugene Jones Jr., has envisioned a remedy, albeit an unlikely one, coming in the form of an infrastructure bill that would fully fund housing assistance, coupling the subsidy with the wraparound services — health care, day care, job training and transportation — that residents need to thrive. Im not a Republican, but were trying to transform our residents out of public and assisted housing, Jones said. The end game is that youre moving off subsistence. Its a noble goal. But there simply is no adequate supply of housing at that next step up. In 2014, when the C.H.A. opened a lottery just to make it onto the waiting list for either a voucher or public-housing unit, 280,000 families entered their names, a quarter of all the households in Chicago.AdvertisementAround the old Cabrini-Green and other expensive urban real estate markets, close-cropped towers are again being built. These are high-end private developments, although they occasionally set aside a number of subsidized apartments for an allotted period of time in exchange for tax breaks and building rights. The common sentiment is that the people who can afford the luxury high-rises have created their own good fortune; the generous government benefits they receive are rightfully earned. For those in Wentworth Gardens or Chicagos distant South Side or any impoverished neighborhood in the country, no political will exists anymore for the government to step in and transform the blocks that have been left to decline. Affordable-housing advocates are by no means pushing for a return to large public-housing high-rise developments, but some have noted that a few towers mixed in here and there with the luxury condos wouldnt stand out.There are calls to again mobilize the countrys resources. The Bipartisan Policy Center has endorsed a universal voucher program that would guarantee rental assistance to the countrys 11.4 million extremely low income households. Several studies by the Urban Institute and other research organizations show that such an endeavor would recoup much of its cost in reduced homelessness and also ease health problems and other consequences of instability that are ultimately paid for by governments. Several organizations in recent years have proposed tax credits for cost-burdened low-income households. And a bill introduced numerous times by the Minnesota congressman Keith Ellison sets out to cut the mortgage-interest deduction for wealthier homeowners and use the $200 billion in savings over 10 years to close the affordable-housing deficit. Congress did, in fact, cut the mortgage-interest deduction as part of last Decembers tax bill, though by much less than low-income housing proponents had wanted. The savings went not to creating affordable housing but to offsetting the tax benefits that Republicans doled out to corporations and the wealthiest Americans. Seventy years into our test as a country to provide housing for those who have too little, we are hardly any closer to passing.Annie Ricks was out walking one night, venturing from Wentworth Gardens, when a burning pain shot through her left foot. She soon developed calluses on her heel. Then she couldnt put any weight on the foot. An emergency-room doctor said she had diabetes and needed surgery. The recovery was supposed to take less than a week, but Ricks got an infection at the hospital. She had trouble eating and lost weight, the sharp bones of her cheeks never more pronounced. I need to laugh sometimes instead of cry, she said. If Im going to cry, it wont get me out of Wentworth Gardens. But then she came down with pneumonia. She was relocated to another hospital and intubated. She couldnt talk or smile. Her daughters complained that the staff ignored their mother because she lacked insurance and relied on state medical assistance. They said the nurses failed to turn her properly, pointing to the holes forming in their mothers back. The family contacted a malpractice lawyer they heard about on television, who asked them repeatedly if there had been a bed fall, because that would be a slam dunk. No, they told him, there hadnt been a fall, and he stopped returning their calls. Then on Nov. 16, 2014, with her family gathered around, Annie Ricks died. She was 58. You walk in with a sore foot, and you never leave, a daughter said bitterly.Rose and her toddler daughter remained in the apartment at Wentworth Gardens. Her brothers slept there less and less frequently. With their mother gone, their lives became more itinerant. They stayed with girlfriends or with other siblings scattered around the city and the surrounding suburbs. Wentworth hadnt become any safer for them. Reggie, in his early 20s, was arrested there after another fight. A group of guys at the development pounced on Raqkown and broke a bone in his neck. But it wasnt clear where they would be better off. Raequonn Ricks Williams, a 19-year-old relative, was shot on the West Side, one of the 762 people murdered in Chicago in 2016. Reggie and his mother had squabbled before her death. Hed been turned down at more than a dozen job interviews, and Annie Ricks berated him for giving up. He racked up arrests. When Reggie left Cabrini, he felt his whole family was gone, Kenosha said of her younger brother. His immediate family plus everybody he was in, like, preschool with.Rose left finally for an apartment building 25 blocks farther south. She had got her daughter into a school near there, and she had also come to feel haunted at Wentworth, always expecting to see her mother emerge from one of the bedrooms. Back in 2014, at her mothers funeral, Rose had been unable to speak through her tears. A hundred former Cabrini-Green residents showed up at the West Side church to pay their respects. Roses siblings talked about their mothers stubbornness, her determination to provide for them: What she didnt have, she made sure we had it, one said. Reggie said he didnt care that he had a terrible singing voice, and he started in on an R. Kelly song: Dear Mama, you wouldnt believe what Im goin through/But still I got my head up just like I promised you. Kenton, Rickss fourth of nine sons, said they all learned from her example. Be strong, take care of the kids, take care of family, he repeated. She made them all better people. Shed do anything for anybody, he said. She was just love.Ben Austen is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He last wrote about Chicago after the Laquan McDonald case. This article is adapted from his book High-Risers, to be published this month by Harper.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page MM36 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: After the Towers.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAN BARRY, SERGE F. KOVALESKI and JULIET MACURFEB. 3, 2018
For more than a year, an F.B.I. inquiry into allegations that Lawrence G. Nassar, a respected sports doctor, had molested three elite teenage gymnasts followed a plodding pace as it moved back and forth among agents in three cities. The accumulating information included instructional videos of the doctors unusual treatment methods, showing his ungloved hands working about the private areas of girls lying facedown on tables.But as the inquiry moved with little evident urgency, a cost was being paid. The New York Times has identified at least 40 girls and women who say that Dr. Nassar molested them between July 2015, when he first fell under F.B.I. scrutiny, and September 2016, when he was exposed by an Indianapolis Star investigation. Some are among the youngest of the now-convicted predators many accusers — 265, and counting.The three alleged victims then at the center of the F.B.I.s inquiry were world-class athletes; two were Olympic gold medalists. Nearly a year passed before agents interviewed two of the young women.The silence at times drove the victims and their families to distraction, including Gina Nichols, the mother of the gymnast initially known as Athlete A: Maggie Nichols, who was not contacted by the F.B.I. for nearly 11 months after the information she provided sparked the federal inquiry.AdvertisementI never got a phone call from the police or the F.B.I. during that time, Gina Nichols, a registered nurse, said. Not one person. Not one. Not one. Not one.AdvertisementThe F.B.I. declined to answer detailed questions about the speed and nature of its investigation, or to provide an official who might put the case in context. Instead, it issued a 112-word statement asserting that the sexual exploitation of children is an especially heinous crime, and that the safety and well-being of our youth is a top priority for the F.B.I.The statement also said that the many allegations against Dr. Nassar transcended jurisdictions — an apparent suggestion that internal efforts to coordinate among its bureaus and with other law enforcement agencies partly explained the inquirys slow tempo.The agency left unaddressed the oft-repeated claim by U.S.A. Gymnastics officials that after initially presenting the sexual assault allegations to the F.B.I. in July 2015, they came away with the impression that federal agents had advised them not to discuss the case with anyone. The ensuing silence had dire consequences, as the many girls and young women still seeing Dr. Nassar received no warning.Gymnasts say that Larry Nassar is far from a one-man problem. Here are the stories of three coaches accused of sexually abusing young gymnasts for years.Among them was Emma Ann Miller.By the summer of 2015, Emma Ann, the only child of a single mother, was both a competitive dancer and just another Michigan kid immersed in the joys and dramas of middle school life. She got braces, with baby blue rubber bands that matched her eyes. She began receiving Snapchat attention from boys.And once a month, she went to Suite 420 in a six-story office building close to Michigan State University in East Lansing, where her solicitous doctor, who encouraged everyone to just call him Larry, molested her.According to her lawyer, Emma Ann had about a dozen sessions with Dr. Nassar between the summers of 2015 and 2016. The pain of the procedures increased, and her self-confidence plummeted.Whenever he asked if my lower back hurt, he would always find a way to touch me down there, she said, explaining that Dr. Nassar would say that her pelvis was in need of adjustment. Whether or not I said my back hurt, he would always find a way to, to. …AdvertisementThe young girl paused.I think Ive blocked out a lot of what he did to me, she said finally.Only three years ago, Dr. Nassar was a popular doctor among the athletes he treated for U.S.A. Gymnastics, known for being goofy but maybe a bit too attentive. His treatments, which gymnastics officials believed were at the cutting edge, were also in demand at Michigan State, where he worked, as well as at Holt High School, and at a gymnastics academy called Twistars.Issues had cropped up: a parent raising concerns about his behavior at Twistars; a female athlete or two at Michigan State complaining to no avail about inappropriate exams. In 2014, a university investigation of another complaint cleared Dr. Nassar of misconduct, but he was now required to have a third person present when treatment involved sensitive areas of the body — and to wear gloves.Still, the doctor was trusted enough to conduct his procedures — including one called intravaginal adjustment — without supervision when treating the countrys best gymnasts at the Karolyi ranch, the exclusive and secluded national team training camp, about 60 miles north of Houston. Gymnasts of international caliber, like Ms. Nichols, of suburban Minneapolis, would spend a week each month at the ranch, under the exacting supervision of the revered coach Martha Karolyi.But at the ranch in late spring of 2015, Ms. Nicholss personal coach, Sarah Jantzi, overheard the 17-year-old girl talking with another elite gymnast, Aly Raisman, about Dr. Nassars invasive and inappropriate techniques. The alarming information was quickly shared with the girls parents and, by June 17, with officials at U.S.A. Gymnastics.Gina Nichols, Maggies mother, recalled telling Steve Penny, then the president of U.S.A. Gymnastics, that the police had to be called immediately. But he insisted that she not tell anyone, she said. The organization would take care of alerting law enforcement.Weeks of silence passed, Gina Nichols said, interrupted occasionally by admonitions from Mr. Penny to keep quiet about the matter — although the United States Olympic Committee has said that U.S.A. Gymnastics reported that one of its physicians had been accused of abusing athletes and was in the process of contacting the appropriate law enforcement authorities.U.S.A. Gymnastics eventually retained what it called an experienced female investigator — a specialist in workplace harassment. After completing her interviews, the investigator recommended on Friday, July 24, that Dr. Nassar be reported to law enforcement.Ms. Nichols and Ms. Raisman competed the next day at the U.S. Classic in Chicago. Gina Nichols said that she saw Mr. Penny at the event and that he told her: Were working on this. Keep it quiet.AdvertisementOn Monday, July 27, gymnastics officials contacted the F.B.I. in Indianapolis, where U.S.A. Gymnastics has its headquarters. The next day, its chairman, Paul Parilla, and its president, Mr. Penny, met with F.B.I. agents who, they later said, assured them they had come to the right place. Forty-one days had passed since U.S.A. Gymnastics first received the report of the sexual abuse of one of its charges.At this moment, F.B.I. agents in Indianapolis were also immersed in the child-exploitation case of Jared Fogle, the longtime pitchman on Subway television ads. Mr. Fogle was arrested that summer on federal charges of sexual exploitation of a child and distribution of child pornography, and later sentenced to nearly 16 years in prison.The gymnastics officials provided the agents with contact information for three gymnasts: Ms. Nichols, Ms. Raisman and someone emerging as the central complainant: McKayla Maroney, then 19, a retired Olympic gold medalist who by the summer of 2015 had become a minor celebrity, struggling in public to find her next purpose in life — a struggle she has since indicated was related to serious emotional issues stemming from the abuse.They also turned over copies of videos of Dr. Nassar demonstrating his technique as he chatted clinically about pulled hamstrings, buttocks and trigger points. Reporters for The New York Times have seen the videos, which show him kneading the legs of girls before his ungloved hands begin to work under a towel, between the girls legs.Its not a fun place to dig, Dr. Nassar says to the camera.Do the hand-shaky thing, he adds later, demonstrating how he shakes his hand vigorously when it is deep between a girls legs.W. Jay Abbott, who at the time was the special agent in charge of the F.B.I. bureau in Indianapolis, said on Thursday that while he did not watch the videos, he vividly remembered the reactions of colleagues who had.I will never forget sitting around the table and thinking, What? said Mr. Abbott, who retired in January. And the reaction of my special agents who were very well versed in this was one of disgust. That is why we worked it with such urgency.He added: At the time, it was being portrayed as a legitimate medical procedure. But to the layman, like ourselves, we were — Youve got to be kidding me.AdvertisementThe next day, U.S.A. Gymnastics quietly, even surreptitiously, relieved Dr. Nassar of any further assignments. It later issued a statement saying: U.S.A. Gymnastics understood from its meeting with the F.B.I. that it should not take any action nor communicate anything that might interfere with the F.B.I.s investigation.All the while, Dr. Nassar continued his uncommon treatment techniques on young patients.Emma Ann Miller remembers the summer of 2015 as her best summer ever.She competed in a dance competition in Las Vegas, where she performed to a song from Legally Blonde, and won a trophy that was two and a half feet tall — about half her height. She spent time at a sleep-away Bible camp, where she went kayaking, horseback riding and zip-lining, and had water balloon fights.We T.P.ed the boys cabin down the hill and had a Silly String fight with two of the other girls cabins, Emma Ann said with a laugh. Someone threw a frog into one of the girls cabins. It was so much fun.Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But then there were those monthly visits to the office of Dr. Nassar — doctor to all of these super-high-up Olympians — who had treated her mother for years for injuries related to a car accident. Given that Emma Ann had known him her entire life, he was almost like family, an intimacy reflected in the half-dozen photographs of her that he displayed in his treatment room.Dr. Nassar first molested her when she was 10, she recalled. She remembered the pants she was wearing — black leggings with white flowers, from Aéropostale. She was having back and neck issues, and he had her remove the leggings and put on loose shorts. In a medical supply room that doubled as a treatment room, he began exploring down there.He was like, Is this O.K.? and I was like, I dont know, she said. And he was like, Just hang in there. I didnt know how it felt. I just knew that it hurt.In the summer of 2015, the treatments hurt even more. She had tried wearing three pairs of underpants or especially tight shorts — anything to keep Dr. Nassars fingers from probing her. Now that she was older, she began lying that she was having her period.AdvertisementAt some point, Emma Ann told her mother that she preferred not to be alone with Dr. Nassar. That did not end it. She said he continued to abuse her while positioning himself so that her mother couldnt see what he was doing. He would grope the girl beneath a white towel meant to convey propriety, all the while chatting with her mother, a kindergarten teacher.Hows your class going?I knew that he had helped my mom, so I had to persuade myself into thinking that he also helped me, Emma Ann said. But I wasnt really sure.Emma Ann now knows that she was not alone. The growing number of other girls who say they were being molested between the summers of 2015 and 2016 includes Alexis Alvarado, 19, who began seeing Dr. Nassar in 2010 for a stress fracture in her back. He began that treatment by massaging her legs, but then his hands crept up until, she said, his fingers were inside her. She was 12.I didnt realize what he was doing was wrong, Ms. Alvarado said. But she explained that he thought everything could be fixed through the butt. That is why her gymnastics teammates in Lansing, Mich., called him the butt doctor.The monthly appointments continued through the summer of 2015 and into the next year. So did her shame, and dread.The same was true for Hannah Morrow, of Naperville, Ill., who will turn 18 on Tuesday. Several times a year, starting when she was 11 or 12, she took the four-hour car ride to see Dr. Nassar, looping around the bottom coast of Lake Michigan. At some point, she started listening to playlists she compiled to help keep her mind off what was about to be done to her.Shed try to get hooked on a new song to sing in her head, over and over. Her favorite, I Write Sins Not Tragedies by Panic! At the Disco, included the line: Its much better to face these kinds of things with a sense of poise and rationality.As with Emma Ann Miller, Hannah also began wearing tighter pants and underwear that covered more of her buttocks, in the unrealized hope that it would dissuade him. She struggled to reconcile his outsize reputation with what he was doing.AdvertisementIf all of those Olympians loved him, theres nothing wrong, Hannah remembered thinking. Even though I feel weird with what hes doing, I guess I shouldnt. Id make excuses: He doesnt realize hes too close to my butt, or that he brushed over my boobs.In late July or early August, F.B.I. agents asked Ms. Maroney to travel to Indianapolis from her home in California to discuss the allegation, according to her lawyer, John Manly, but she declined. It is unclear why an agent did not travel to see her in person. As a result, the first substantive interview of an alleged victim in a child-molestation case was conducted by telephone.Meanwhile, Ms. Nichols and Ms. Raisman continued their gymnastics pursuits — both competed at the P & G Championships in Indianapolis — but they still had received no word from any law enforcement official about the allegations now lodged with the F.B.I.Some of the delay appears to have been related to questions concerning federal-versus-state jurisdiction, as well as jurisdiction within the F.B.I. itself. Although the Indianapolis bureau had received the information, the alleged sexual abuse by Dr. Nassar had taken place in Texas, at the Karolyi ranch, and in Michigan, where he lived and worked. And Ms. Maroney lived in California.According to Mr. Abbott, his agents in Indianapolis did not have the case for long. When we consulted with the U.S. attorney, we knew right away that we would not have venue, he said. It was never really our case.Mr. Abbott said that his agents conducted some interviews, but he declined to say with whom. He also said written reports were sent within weeks to F.B.I. offices in Michigan and Los Angeles.The retired agent emphasized how the sensitivities and difficulties of child-exploitation cases can contribute to the length of investigations. You are dealing with victims who sometimes dont want to be interviewed, he said. It is extremely delicate. And you also have the parents of minors who are sometimes not comfortable with interviews.Asked why federal law enforcement officials did not notify people — other gymnasts, parents, coaches — that a potential child molester was in their midst, Mr. Abbott said, Thats where things can get tricky.AdvertisementThere is a duty to warn those who might be harmed in the future, he said. But everyone is still trying to ascertain whether a crime has been committed. And everybody has rights here — a reference to both the alleged victims and the person being accused.The Nassar case might have been further complicated, he said, by the fact that there was a vigorous debate going on about whether this was a legitimate medical procedure.U.S.A. Gymnastics officials said that around this time they were told that pertinent interviews had been completed and that the case had been transferred to another jurisdiction. Indeed, on Sept. 12, Ms. Maroney was directed by U.S.A. Gymnastics to contact the F.B.I. East Lansing office.According to Mr. Manly, the retired gymnasts mother, Erin Maroney, called repeatedly, but received no follow-up response.Two weeks later, on Sept. 27, Dr. Nassar announced on Facebook that he was retiring from the womens national team staff, notwithstanding a note he had posted in late June saying he would remain with the team through the summer of 2016.He did not elaborate.In April 2016, Ms. Raisman shared a gold medal with the national team at the Pacific Rim Championships in Seattle, while Ms. Nichols damaged a knee during training, underwent surgery, and was out for several weeks — a reminder of the physical toll of the sport. Meanwhile, neither she nor her parents heard anything about the federal investigation that U.S.A. Gymnastics had instructed them to remain silent about.The Raisman family was similarly frustrated. According to a person close to the family, Ms. Raisman and her mother, Lynn, repeatedly reached out to Mr. Penny to find out about the status of the federal investigation, only to be told that an F.B.I. agent would be getting in touch with them.Finally, the absence of information about the federal investigation — and the increasing concern of the victims and their families — prompted Mr. Penny and Mr. Parilla, the U.S.A. Gymnastics officials, to visit the F.B.I.s Los Angeles bureau in early May. Mr. Parilla lives in Southern California, as does Ms. Maroney, and Mr. Penny stopped in Los Angeles while returning from an overseas trip.AdvertisementAs time passed, concern about a perceived lack of development prompted Board Chair Paul Parilla and C.E.O. Steve Penny to report the matter a second time to a different F.B.I. office, U.S.A. Gymnastics said in a statement to The Times on Friday.Through a lawyer and a spokeswoman, Mr. Parilla and Mr. Penny declined to be interviewed for this article.The visit appears to have jump-started the federal investigation into Dr. Nassar. Agents asked for more information, including a list of the members of the national womens gymnastics team. And on May 17, the F.B.I. finally interviewed Ms. Maroney in person.It had been 294 days since the F.B.I. was first notified of accusations against Dr. Nassar.A few weeks later, on June 13, Gina Nichols received an email from Michael Hess, an F.B.I. agent then based in Los Angeles. I am looking into a complaint that was filed involving alleged misconduct by an individual associated with U.S.A. Gymnastics, he wrote. When you have a moment, please give me a call at the below numbers.It was a stressful time: Her daughter was preparing for the Olympic trials. But several days later, the gymnast went to a suburban Minneapolis building, not far from her home, to meet Mr. Hess, who had flown in from Los Angeles.In addition, a person close to the Raisman family said that the F.B.I. also contacted Ms. Raisman in the summer of 2016. While Mr. Manly — who represents Ms. Raisman, Ms. Nichols and Ms. Maroney — applauded the diligence of Mr. Hess, he expressed amazement that so little had been done for so long.Given who these women were, all competing for their country, and given that these assaults had occurred in different states and countries, there was an obvious need to have a multilayered, multijurisdictional investigation, Mr. Manly said.Gina Nichols, who had been instructed by U.S.A. Gymnastics not to talk about the matter, recalled that while venting in a subsequent telephone conversation with Mr. Hess, the agent told her:You can talk to anybody you want.That August, in Rio de Janeiro, Ms. Raisman had an Olympics for the ages, demonstrating poise and leadership as she won three medals, including gold. But Ms. Nichols, returning from her knee injury, was ultimately not invited to join the Olympic team — even as an alternate.AdvertisementMeanwhile, Emma Ann Miller continued to keep her treatment appointments with Dr. Nassar. But the abuse had worsened, and she no longer felt like the bubbly teenager she had been only a year before. She stopped taking selfies because she felt ugly and fat. Shed cry if she received an A-minus on a paper or test, thinking it was evidence of her stupidity.I didnt even want to order a drink at Starbucks because I was so scared Id mess it up, Emma Ann said.Her mother, Leslie Miller, struggles now with her rage. Look at what he did to my happy girl, Ms. Miller said, in tears. Look at all the people who couldve stopped him earlier. My goal is to find every single one of them in the haystack — expose them all, so this will never happen again.It was only a matter of time.On Sept. 12, 2016, The Indianapolis Star published an in-depth investigation detailing allegations that Dr. Nassar had repeatedly molested two gymnasts when they were young. One woman had filed a criminal complaint with the police in Michigan. The other, initially described only as an Olympic medalist, had filed a lawsuit against the doctor and U.S.A. Gymnastics in California. Neither was involved in the F.B.I. inquiry.Suddenly, the Nassar case took on urgency. As other girls and women began calling the Michigan State University Police to file complaints, their numbers eventually growing into the dozens, their abuser did what he could to mask his behavior, including throwing hard drives containing more than 37,000 images and videos of child pornography into the trash for pickup in the morning.But trash pickup in his neighborhood was late that day, allowing a police officer to find the horrifying material while executing a search warrant on behalf of the university police.By the close of 2016, Dr. Nassar was in custody. By the close of 2017, he had been convicted of myriad state charges, as well as federal child pornography charges, based in large part on that state search warrant. Given that he has been sentenced to nearly two centuries in prison, Dr. Nassar will likely die there.In recent weeks, a communal catharsis has played out, as dozens and dozens of empowered victims or their proxies have confronted the doctor at sentencing hearings. The angry but resolute words of Aly Raisman and McKayla Maroney and Maggie Nichols have echoed in the courtrooms of Michigan.So, too, have the words of the lesser-known accusers, those girls and young women who report they were abused in the year after allegations were first presented to the F.B.I. in Indianapolis: the likes of Alexis Alvarado and Hannah Morrow — and Emma Ann Miller, who in November turned 15.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Holt High School. Lawrence G. Nassar did work there, but it is not his alma mater. An earlier version of this article also misstated the number of medals Aly Raisman won at the Rio Olympics. It was three, not six (she has six Olympic medals over all).Susan C. Beachy, Elisa Cho and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Molested as F.B.I. Case Plodded for a Year.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.American adolescents watch much more pornography than their parents know — and its shaping their ideas about pleasure, power and intimacy. Can they be taught to see it more critically?By MAGGIE JONESFEB. 7, 2018
Drew was 8 years old when he was flipping through TV channels at home and landed on Girls Gone Wild. A few years later, he came across HBOs late-night soft-core pornography. Then in ninth grade, he found online porn sites on his phone. The videos were good for getting off, he said, but also sources for ideas for future sex positions with future girlfriends. From porn, he learned that guys need to be buff and dominant in bed, doing things like flipping girls over on their stomach during sex. Girls moan a lot and are turned on by pretty much everything a confident guy does. One particular porn scene stuck with him: A woman was bored by a man who approached sex gently but became ecstatic with a far more aggressive guy.But around 10th grade, it began bothering Drew, an honor-roll student who loves baseball and writing rap lyrics and still confides in his mom, that porn influenced how he thought about girls at school. Were their breasts, he wondered, like the ones in porn? Would girls look at him the way women do in porn when they had sex? Would they give him blow jobs and do the other stuff he saw?Drew, who asked me to use one of his nicknames, was a junior when I first met him in late 2016, and he told me some of this one Thursday afternoon, as we sat in a small conference room with several other high school boys, eating chips and drinking soda and waiting for an after-school program to begin. Next to Drew was Q., who asked me to identify him by the first initial of his nickname. He was 15, a good student and a baseball fan, too, and pretty perplexed about how porn translated into real life. Q. hadnt had sex — he liked older, out-of-reach girls, and the last time he had a girlfriend was in sixth grade, and they just fooled around a bit. So he wasnt exactly in a good position to ask girls directly what they liked. But as he told me over several conversations, it wasnt just porn but rough images on Snapchat, Facebook and other social media that confused him. Like the GIF he saw of a man pushing a woman against a wall with a girl commenting: I want a guy like this. And the one Drew mentioned of the pain room in Fifty Shades of Grey with a caption by a girl: This is awesome!Watching porn also heightened Q.s performance anxiety. You are looking at an adult, he told me. The guys are built and dominant and have a big penis, and they last a long time. And if you dont do it like the guys in porn, Drew added, you fear shes not going to like you.AdvertisementLeaning back in his chair, Drew said some girls acted as if they wanted some thug rather than a smart, sensitive guy. But was it true desire? Was it posturing? Was it what girls thought they were supposed to want? Neither Q. nor Drew knew. A couple of seats away, a sophomore who had been quiet until then added that maybe the girls didnt know either. I think social media makes girls think they want something, he said, noting he hadnt seen porn more than a handful of times and disliked it. But I think some of the girls are afraid.It gets in your head, Q. said. If this girl wants it, then maybe the majority of girls want it. Hed heard about the importance of consent in sex, but it felt pretty abstract, and it didnt seem as if it would always be realistic in the heat of the moment. Out of nowhere was he supposed to say: Can I pull your hair? Or could he try something and see how a girl responded? He knew that there were certain things — big things, like sex toys or anal — that he would not try without asking.I would just do it, said another boy, in jeans and a sweatshirt. When I asked what he meant, he said anal sex. He assumed that girls like it, because the women in porn do.AdvertisementI would never do something that looked uncomfortable, Drew said, jumping back into the conversation. I might say, Ive seen this in porn — do you want to try it? It was almost 4 p.m., and the boys started to gather their backpacks to head to a class known as Porn Literacy. The course, with the official title The Truth About Pornography: A Pornography-Literacy Curriculum for High School Students Designed to Reduce Sexual and Dating Violence, is a recent addition to Start Strong, a peer-leadership program for teenagers headquartered in Bostons South End and funded by the citys public-health agency. About two dozen selected high school students attend every year, most of them black or Latino, along with a few Asian students, from Boston public high schools, including the citys competitive exam schools, and a couple of parochial schools. During most of the year, the teenagers learn about healthy relationships, dating violence and L.G.B.T. issues, often through group discussions, role-playing and other exercises.But for around two hours each week, for five weeks, the students — sophomores, juniors and seniors — take part in Porn Literacy, which aims to make them savvier, more critical consumers of porn by examining how gender, sexuality, aggression, consent, race, queer sex, relationships and body images are portrayed (or, in the case of consent, not portrayed) in porn.On average, boys are around 13, and girls are around 14, when they first see pornography, says Bryant Paul, an associate professor at Indiana Universitys Media School and the author of studies on porn content and adolescent and adult viewing habits. In a 2008 University of New Hampshire survey, 93 percent of male college students and 62 percent of female students said they saw online porn before they were 18. Many females, in particular, werent seeking it out. Thirty-five percent of males said they had watched it 10 or more times during adolescence.Porn Literacy, which began in 2016 and is the focus of a pilot study, was created in part by Emily Rothman, an associate professor at Boston Universitys School of Public Health who has conducted several studies on dating violence, as well as on porn use by adolescents. She told me that the curriculum isnt designed to scare kids into believing porn is addictive, or that it will ruin their lives and relationships and warp their libidos. Instead it is grounded in the reality that most adolescents do see porn and takes the approach that teaching them to analyze its messages is far more effective than simply wishing our children could live in a porn-free world.Imagine that you are a 14-year-old today. A friend might show you a short porn clip on his phone during the bus ride to school or after soccer practice. A pornographic GIF appears on Snapchat. Or you mistype the word fishing and end up with a bunch of links to fisting videos. Like most 14-year-olds, you havent had sex, but youre curious, so maybe you start searching and land on one of the many porn sites that work much like YouTube — XVideos.com, Xnxx.com, BongaCams.com, all of them among the 100 most-frequented websites in the world, according to Alexa Top Sites. Or you find Pornhub, the most popular of the group, with 80 million visitors a day and more traffic than Pinterest, Tumblr or PayPal. The mainstream websites arent verifying your age, and your phone allows you to watch porn away from the scrutinizing eyes of adults. If you still have parental-control filters, you probably have ways around them.Besides, theres a decent chance your parents dont think you are watching porn. Preliminary analysis of data from a 2016 Indiana University survey of more than 600 pairs of children and their parents reveals a parental naïveté gap: Half as many parents thought their 14- and 18-year-olds had seen porn as had in fact watched it. And depending on the sex act, parents underestimated what their kids saw by as much as 10 times.What teenagers see on Pornhub depends partly on algorithms and the clips theyve clicked on in the past. Along with stacks of videos on the opening page, there are several dozen categories (teen, anal, blonde, girl on girl, ebony, milf) that can take them to more than six million videos. The clips tend to be short, low on production value, free and, though Pornhub tries to prevent it, sometimes pirated from paid sites. Many of the heterosexual videos are shot from the male point of view, as if the man were holding the camera while he has sex with a woman whose main job, via oral sex, intercourse or anal sex, is to make him orgasm. Plot lines are thin to nonexistent as the camera zooms in for up-close shots of genitals and penetration that are repetitive, pounding and — though perhaps not through the eyes of a 14-year-old — banal. (There are alternative narratives in L.G.B.T. and feminist porn, and studies show that for gay and bisexual youth, porn can provide affirmation that they are not alone in their sexual desires.)AdvertisementWe dont have many specifics on what kids actually view, in large part because its extremely difficult to get federal funding for research on children and pornography. A few years ago, frustrated by the dearth of large, recent United States studies, Rashida Jones, Jill Bauer and Ronna Gradus, creators of the 2017 Netflix documentary series Hot Girls Wanted: Turned On, about technology and porn, paired with several foundations and philanthropists to fund a national survey about porn viewing, sexual attitudes and behaviors. As part of the survey, led by Debby Herbenick, a professor at the Indiana University School of Public Health and director of the universitys Center for Sexual Health Promotion, along with her colleague Bryant Paul, 614 teenagers ages 14 to 18 reported what their experiences were with porn. In preliminary data analysis from the study (Herbenick is submitting an academic paper for publication this year), of the roughly 300 who did watch porn, one-quarter of the girls and 36 percent of the boys said they had seen videos of men ejaculating on womens faces (known as facials), Paul says. Almost one-third of both sexes saw B.D.S.M. (bondage, domination, sadism, masochism), and 26 percent of males and 20 percent of females watched videos with double penetration, described in the study as one or more penises or objects in a womans anus and/or in her vagina. Also, 31 percent of boys said they had seen gang bangs, or group sex, and rough oral sex (a man aggressively thrusting his penis in and out of a mouth); less than half as many girls had.Its hard to know if, and how, this translates into behavior. While some studies show a small number of teens who watch higher rates of porn engage in earlier sex as well as gender stereotyping and sexual relationships that are less affectionate than their peers, these only indicate correlations, not cause and effect. But surveys do suggest that the kinds of sex some teenagers have may be shifting. The percentage of 18-to-24-year-old women who reported trying anal sex rose to 40 percent in 2009 from 16 percent in 1992, according to the largest survey on American sexual behavior in decades, co-authored by Herbenick and published in The Journal of Sexual Medicine. In data from that same survey, 20 percent of 18-to-19 year old females had tried anal sex; about 6 percent of 14-to-17-year-old females had. And in a 2016 Swedish study of nearly 400 16-year-old girls, the percentage of girls who had tried anal sex doubled if they watched pornography. Like other studies about sex and porn, it only showed a correlation, and girls who are more sexually curious may also be drawn to porn. In addition, some girls may view anal sex as a safer alternative to vaginal sex, as theres little risk of pregnancy.The Indiana University national survey of teenagers asked about other sex behaviors as well. Though the data have not been fully analyzed, preliminary findings suggest that of the teenagers who had had sex, around one-sixth of boys said they had ejaculated on someones face or choked a sex partner. The survey didnt define choking, but the high school and college-age students I spoke to referred to it as anything from placing a hand gently on a partners neck to squeezing it.We dont have longitudinal data on the frequency of ejaculating on a girls face or choking among American teenagers to know whether either practice is more common now. And, as David Finkelhor, director of the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire, told me, fewer teenagers have early sex than in the past (in a recent study, 24 percent of American ninth graders had sex; in 1995 about 37 percent had), and arrests of teenagers for sexual assault are also down. But you dont have to believe that porn leads to sexual assault or that its creating a generation of brutal men to wonder how it helps shape how teenagers talk and think about sex and, by extension, their ideas about masculinity, femininity, intimacy and power.Over the year in which I spoke to dozens of older teenagers at Start Strong and around the country, many said that both porn and mainstream media — everything from the TV show Family Guy (which references choking and anal sex) to Nicki Minajs song Truffle Butter (with an apparent allusion to anal sex followed by vaginal sex) to the lyrics in Rihannas S&M (Sticks and stones may break my bones, but chains and whips excite me) — made anal and rough sex seem almost commonplace. Drew told me he got the sense that girls wanted to be dominated not only from reading a few pages of Fifty Shades of Grey but also from watching the movie Mr. & Mrs. Smith, with Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie. Shes on the table, and shes getting pounded by him. Thats all Ive seen growing up.These images confound many teenagers about the kinds of sex they want or think they should have. In part, thats because they arent always sure what is fake and what is real in porn. Though some told me that porn was fantasy or exaggerated, others said that porn wasnt real only insofar as it wasnt typically two lovers having sex on film. Some of those same teenagers assumed the portrayal of how sex and pleasure worked was largely accurate. That seems to be in keeping with a 2016 survey of 1,001 11-to-16-year-olds in Britain. Of the roughly half who had seen pornography, 53 percent of boys and 39 percent of girls said it was realistic. And in the recent Indiana University national survey, only one in six boys and one in four girls believed that women in online porn were not actually experiencing pleasure: As one suburban high school senior boy told me recently, Ive never seen a girl in porn who doesnt look like shes having a good time.Its not surprising, then, that some adolescents use porn as a how-to guide. In a study that Rothman carried out in 2016 of 72 high schoolers ages 16 and 17, teenagers reported that porn was their primary source for information about sex — more than friends, siblings, schools or parents.Theres nowhere else to learn about sex, the suburban boy told me. And porn stars know what they are doing. His words reflect a paradox about sex and pornography in this country. Even as smartphones have made it easier for teenagers to watch porn, sex education in the United States — where abstinence-based sex education remains the norm — is meager. Massachusetts is among 26 states that do not mandate sex ed. And a mere 13 require that the material be medically and scientifically accurate. After some gains by the Obama administration to promote more comprehensive sex ed, which includes pregnancy prevention, discussions of anatomy, birth control, disease prevention, abstinence and healthy relationships, the Trump administration did not include the program in its proposed 2018 budget; it also has requested increased funding for abstinence education. Easy-to-access online porn fills the vacuum, making porn the de facto sex educator for American youth.AdvertisementOne Thursday afternoon, about a dozen teenagers sat in a semicircle of North Face zip-ups, Jordans, combat boots, big hoop earrings and the slumped shoulders of late afternoon. It was the third week of Porn Literacy, and everyone already knew the rules: You dont have to have watched porn to attend; no yucking someone elses yum — no disparaging a students sexual tastes or sexuality. And avoid sharing personal stories about sex in class. Nicole Daley and Jess Alder, who wrote the curriculum with Emily Rothman and led most of the exercises and discussion, are in their 30s, warm and easygoing. Daley, who until last month was the director of Start Strong, played the slightly more serious favorite-aunt role, while Alder, who runs Start Strongs classes for teenagers, was the goofier, ask-me-anything big sister. Rothman also attended most of the classes, offering information about pornography studies and explaining to them, for example, that there is no scientific evidence that porn is addictive, but that people can become compulsive about it.In the first class, Daley led an exercise in which the group defined porn terms (B.D.S.M., kink, soft-core, hard-core), so that, as she put it, everyone is on the same page and you can avoid clicking on things you dont want to see. The students also values voted — agreeing or disagreeing about whether the legal viewing age of 18 for porn is too high, if working in the porn industry is a good way to make money and if pornography should be illegal. Later, Daley held up images of a 1940s pinup girl, a Japanese geisha and Kim Kardashian, to talk about how cultural values about beauty and bodies change over time. In future classes, they would talk about types of intimacy not depicted in porn and nonsexist pickup lines. Finally, Daley would offer a lesson about sexting and sexting laws and the risks of so-called revenge porn (in which, say, a teenager circulates a naked selfie of an ex without consent). And to the teenagers surprise, they learned that receiving or sending consensual naked photos, even to your boyfriend or girlfriend, can be against the law if the person in the photo is a minor.Now, in the third week of class, Daleys goal was to undercut porns allure for teenagers by exposing the underbelly of the business. When you understand its not just two people on the screen but an industry, she told me, its not as sexy.To that end, Daley started class by detailing a midlevel female performers salary (taken from the 2008 documentary The Price of Pleasure): Blow job: $300, Daley read from a list. Anal: $1,000. Double penetration: $1,200. Gang bang: $1,300 for three guys. $100 for each additional guy.Wow, Drew muttered. That makes it nasty now.Thats nothing for being penetrated on camera, another boy said.Then, as if they had been given a green light to ask about a world that grown-ups rarely acknowledge, they began peppering Daley, Rothman and Alder with questions.How much do men get paid? one girl asked. It is the one of the few professions in which men are paid less, Rothman explained, but they also typically have longer careers. How long do women stay in their jobs? On average, six to 18 months. How do guys get erections if they arent turned on? Often Viagra, Rothman offered, and sometimes a fluffer, as an offscreen human stimulator is known.Daley then asked the teenagers to pretend they were contestants on a reality-TV show, in which they had to decide if they were willing to participate in certain challenges (your parents might be watching) and for how much money. In one scenario, she said, you would kneel on the ground while someone poured a goopy substance over your face. In another, youd lick a spoon that had touched fecal matter. The kids debated the fecal-matter challenge — most wouldnt to do it for less than $2 million. One wanted to know if the goop smelled. Can we find out what it is? asked another.AdvertisementThen Daley explained that each was in fact a simulation of a porn act. The goopy substance was whats called a bakers dozen, in which 13 men ejaculate on a womans face, breasts and mouth.What? a girl named Tiffany protested.The second scenario — licking the spoon with fecal matter — was from a porn act known as A.T.M., in which a man puts his penis in a womans anus and then immediately follows by sticking it in her mouth.No way, a 15-year-old boy said. Cant you wash in between?Nope, Daley said.We dont question it when we see it in porn, right? Daley went on. Theres no judgment here, but some of you guys are squeamish about it.I never knew any of this, Drew said, sounding a bit glum.Daley went on to detail a 2010 study that coded incidents of aggression in best-selling 2004 and 2005 porn videos. She noted that 88 percent of scenes showed verbal or physical aggression, mostly spanking, slapping and gagging. (A more recent content analysis of more than 6,000 mainstream online heterosexual porn scenes by Bryant Paul and his colleagues defined aggression specifically as any purposeful action appearing to cause physical or psychological harm to another person and found that 33 percent of scenes met that criteria. In each study, women were on the receiving end of the aggression more than 90 percent of the time.)Do you think, Daley said, standing in front of the students, watching porn leads to violence against women? Theres no right or wrong here. Its a debate.Kyrah, a 10th-grade feminist with an athletes compact body and a tendency to speak her opinions, didnt hesitate. In porn they glamorize calling women a slut or a whore, and younger kids think this is how it is. Or when they have those weird porn scenes and the woman is saying, Stop touching me, and then she ends up enjoying it!Tiffany, her best friend, snapped her fingers in approval.Yes and no, one guy interjected. When a man is choking a woman in porn, people know it is not real, and they arent supposed to do it, because its violence. He was the same teenager who told me he would just do anal sex without asking a girl, because the women in porn like it.Pornography didnt create the narrative that male pleasure should be first and foremost. But that idea is certainly reinforced by a male-dominated porn industry shot through a male lens, as Cindy Gallop puts it. Gallop is the creator of an online platform called MakeLoveNotPorn, where users can submit videos of their sexual encounters — which she describes as real world, consensual sex with good values — and pay to watch videos of others.AdvertisementFor years, Gallop has been a one-woman laboratory witnessing how easy-to-access mainstream porn influences sex. Now in her 50s, she has spent more than a decade dating 20-something men. She finds them through cougar dating sites — where older women connect with younger men — and her main criterion is that they are nice. Even so, she told me, during sex with these significantly younger nice men, she repeatedly encounters porn memes: facials, jackhammering intercourse, more frequent requests for anal sex and men who seem less focused on female orgasms than men were when she was younger. Gallop takes it upon herself to re-educate, as she half-jokingly puts it, men raised on porn. Some people, of course, do enjoy these acts. But speaking of teenagers in particular, she told me she worries that hard-core porn leads many girls to think, for example, that all boys love coming on girls faces, and all girls love having their faces come on. And therefore, girls feel they must let boys come on their face and pretend to like it.Though none of the boys I spoke to at Start Strong told me they had ejaculated on a girls face, Gallops words reminded me of conversations I had with some older high-schoolers in various cities. One senior said that ejaculating on a womans face was in a majority of porn scenes he had watched, and that he had done it with a girlfriend. I brought it up, or she would say, Come on my face. It was an aspect I liked — and she did, too.Another noted that the act is talked about a lot among guys, but said that a girls got to be down with it before hed ever consider doing it. There is something thats appealing for guys. The dominance and intimacy and that whole opportunity for eye contact. Guys are obsessed with their come displayed on a girl.Many girls at Start Strong were decidedly less enthusiastic. One senior told me a boyfriend asked to ejaculate on her face; she said no. And during a conversation I had with three girls, one senior wondered aloud: What if you dont want a facial? What are you supposed to do? Friends say a boy cleans it with a napkin. A lot of girls my age like facials. But a few moments later, she reversed course. I actually dont think they like it. They do it because their partner likes it. Next to her, a sophomore added that when older girls talk among themselves, many say its gross. But they say you gotta do what you gotta do. And if you dont, the first girl added, then someone else will.These are not new power dynamics between girls and boys. In a 2014 British study about anal sex and teenagers, girls expressed a similar lack of sexual agency and experienced physical pain. In the survey, of 130 heterosexual teenagers age 16 to 18, teenagers often said they believed porn was a motivating factor for why males wanted anal sex. And among the guys who reported trying it, many said friends encouraged them, or they felt competitive with other guys to do it. At the same time, a majority of girls who had tried anal sex said they didnt actually want to; their partners persuaded or coerced them. Some males took a try it and see approach, as researchers called it, attempting to put their finger or penis in a girls anus and hoping she didnt stop them. Sometimes, one teenager reported, you just keep going till they just get fed up and let you do it anyway. Both boys and girls blamed the girls for pain they felt during anal sex and some told researchers the girls needed to relax more or get used to it. Only one girl said she enjoyed it, and only a few boys did. Teenagers may not know that even while porn makes it seem commonplace, in the 2009 national survey of American sex habits, most men and women who tried anal sex didnt make it a regular part of their sex lives. And in another study, by Indiana Universitys Debby Herbenick and others in 2015, about 70 percent of women who had anal sex said they experienced pain.Drew had firsthand experience with what he had seen in porn not translating into actual pleasure. The first time he had sex, he thought he was supposed to exert some physical control over his girlfriend. But the whole thing felt awkward, too rough and not all that fun. And things that looked easy in porn, like sex while taking a shower or mutual oral sex, didnt go so well.At one point during sex, Drews girlfriend at the time, who was a year older and more experienced, asked him to put his hand around her neck during sex. He did it, without squeezing, and though it didnt exactly bother him, it felt uncomfortable. Drew never asked if she got the idea from porn, but it made him wonder. Had she also picked up other ways of acting? Like, how do you really know a girl has had a good time? he said one afternoon, musing aloud while sitting with some friends before Porn Literacy class. My girlfriend said she had a good time, he went on. She was moaning. But thats the thing: Is it fake moaning?Even if you know porn isnt realistic, it still sets up expectations, one senior told me. In porn, he said, the clothes are off, and the girl goes down on the guy, he gets hard and he starts having sex with her. Its all very simple and well lit. Before he had sex, porn had supplied his images of oral sex, including scenes in which a woman is on her knees as a man stands over her. At one point, he thought thats how it might go one day when he had sex. But when he talked with his girlfriend, they realized they didnt want to re-enact that power dynamic.AdvertisementI spent a couple of hours on a Wednesday afternoon at Start Strong with a senior girl who took the first Porn Literacy class in the summer of 2016. Looking back over the last several years of middle and high school, A., who asked me to identify her by the first initial of her middle name, said she wished she had had someplace — home, school, a community sex-ed program — to learn about sex. Instead, she learned about it from porn. She saw it for the first time by accident, after a group of sixth-grade boys cajoled her to look at tube8.com, which she didnt know was a porn site. She was fascinated. She had never seen a penis before, not a drawing of one, nothing. A few years later, she searched online for porn again after listening to girls in the high school locker room talk about masturbation. A.s parents, whom she describes as conservative about sex, hadnt talked to her about female anatomy or sex, and her school didnt offer any sex education before ninth grade; even then, it focused mostly on the dangers — sexually transmitted infections and diseases and pregnancy.Aside from some private schools and innovative community programs, relatively few sex-ed classes in middle and high school delve in detail into anatomy (female, especially), intimacy, healthy relationships, sexual diversity. Even more rare are discussions of female desire and pleasure. Porn taught A. the basics of masturbation. And porn served as her study guide when she was 16 and was the first among her friends to have sex. She clicked through videos to watch women giving oral sex. She focused on how they moved during sex and listened to how they moaned. She began shaving her vulva (Ive never seen anyone in porn have sex with hair on it).Porn is not all bad, said A., who was frank and funny, with a slew of advanced-placement classes on her transcript and a self-assured manner that impresses adults. I got my sexual ways from porn, and I like the way I am. But what she learned from porn had downsides too. Because she assumed womens pleasure in porn was real, when she first had intercourse and didnt have an orgasm, she figured that was just how it went.For A., it wasnt enough to know that porn was fake sex. She wanted to understand how real sex worked. Rothman and her team did consult a sex educator while they were writing the Porn Literacy curriculum but decided to include only some basic information about safe sex. It came in the form of a Porn Jeopardy game during one class. The teenagers, clustered in teams, chose from four categories: S.T.D./S.T.I.s, Birth Control, Teen Violence/Sexual Assault and Porn on the Brain.S.T.I.s/S.T.D.s for $300, one student called out.Why is lubrication important for sex? Alder asked.Whats lubrication? Drew asked.Its lube, another teenager said, in an attempt to explain.Is lubrication only the little tube-y things? a girl with long black hair asked. Or can it be natural?I never learned this before, Drew announced to the class after it was mentioned that lubrication decreased friction, increased pleasure and could reduce the risk of tearing and therefore of S.T.I.s and S.T.D.s. Drews only sliver of sex ed was in sixth grade with the school gym teacher, who sweated as he talked about sex, and it was all about it being bad and we shouldnt do it.AdvertisementAs if to rectify that, Alder offered a quick anatomy lesson, drawing a vulva on the whiteboard and pointing out the clitoris, the vagina, the urethra. This is called a vulva, she said. Alder repeated the word slowly and loudly, as if instructing the students in a foreign language. It was both for humor and to normalize a word that some of them may have been hearing for the first time. This is the clitoris, Alder went on. This is where women get most pleasure. Most women do not have a G spot. If you want to know how to give a woman pleasure, its the clitoris.Lets move on, Rothman said quietly. Alder had just inched across a line in which anatomy rested on one side and female desire and pleasure on the other. It was a reminder that as controversial as it is to teach kids about pornography, it can be more taboo to teach them how their bodies work sexually. The class is about critically analyzing sexually explicit media, Rothman told me later, not how to have sex. We want to stay in our narrow lane and not be seen as promoting anything parents are uncomfortable with. Daley added: I wish it were different, but we have to be aware of the limitations of where we are as a society.Porn education is such new territory that no one knows the best practices, what material should be included and where to teach it. (Few people are optimistic that it will be taught anytime soon in public schools.) Several years ago, L. Kris Gowen, a sexuality educator and author of the 2017 book Sexual Decisions: The Ultimate Teen Guide, wrote extensive guidelines for teaching teenagers to critique sexually explicit media (she avoided the more provocative term porn literacy). Even though Oregon, where Gowen lives, has one of the most comprehensive sex-ed programs in the country, Gowen said that teachers felt unequipped to talk about porn. And though the guidelines have been circulated at education conferences and made publicly available, Gowen doesnt know of a single educator who has implemented them. In part, she says, people may be waiting for a better sense of whats effective. But also, many schools and teachers are nervous about anything that risks them being accused of promoting porn.The most recent sex-education guidelines from the World Health Organizations European office note that educators should include discussions about the influence of pornography on sexuality starting with late elementary school and through high school. The guidelines dont, however, provide specific ideas on how to have those conversations.In Britain, nonprofit organizations and a teachers union, along with members of Parliament, have recommended that schools include discussions about the influence of porn on how children view sex and relationships. Magdalena Mattebo, a researcher at Uppsala University in Sweden who studies pornography and adolescents, would like porn literacy mandated in her country. We are a little lost in how to handle this, Mattebo told me.More than 300 schools, youth and community groups and government agencies in Australia and New Zealand use components of a porn-education resource called In the Picture that includes statistics, studies and exercises primarily for teenagers. It was created by Maree Crabbe, an expert on sexual violence and pornography education, who lives near Melbourne, Australia. As she put it during a United States training program for educators and social workers that I attended in 2016: We want to be positive about sex, positive about masturbation and critical of pornography. One key component of the program is often neglected in porn literacy: providing training to help parents understand and talk about these issues.Get the best of the Magazine delivered to your inbox every week, including exclusive feature stories, photography, columns and more.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last year, a feminist porn producer, Erika Lust, in consultation with sex educators, created a porn-education website for parents. The Porn Conversation links to research and articles and provides practical tips for parents, including talking to kids about the ways mainstream porn doesnt represent typical bodies or mutually satisfying sex and avoiding accusatory questions about why your kid is watching porn and who showed it to them. We cant just say, I dont like mainstream porn because its chauvinistic,  says Lust, whose films feature female-centered pleasure. We have given our children technology, so we need to teach them how to handle it. But she takes it a step further by suggesting that parents of middle- and high-schoolers talk to their teenagers about healthy porn, which she says includes showing female desire and pleasure and being made under fair working conditions. I asked Lust if she would steer her daughters in that direction when they are older (they are 7 and 10). I would recommend good sites to my daughters at age 15, when I think they are mature enough. We are so curious to find out about sex. People have doubts and insecurities about themselves sexually. Is it O.K. that I like that, or this? I think porn can be a good thing to have as an outlet. Im not scared by explicit sex per se. Im afraid of the bad values.Tristan Taormino, another feminist porn filmmaker and author, speaks frequently on college campuses and produces explicit sex-ed videos for adults. The party line is we dont want teenagers watching our videos, she says, noting they are rated XXX. But do I wish teenagers had access to some of the elements of it? In addition to seeing consent, she said, they would see people talking to each other, and theyd see a lot of warm-up. We show lube, we show sex toys.AdvertisementThat may be more than most parents, even of older teenagers, can bear. But even if parents decided to help their teenagers find these sites, not only is it illegal to show any kind of porn — good or bad — to anyone under 18, but, really, do teenagers want their parents to do so? And which ones would parents recommend for teenagers? Unlike organic food, theres no coding system for ethical or feminist porn, Crabbe notes. They might use condoms and dental dams and still convey the same gender and aggression dynamics. Also, good porn isnt typically free or nearly as accessible as the millions of videos streaming on mainstream sites.Al Vernacchio, a nationally known sexuality educator who teaches progressive sex ed at a private Quaker school outside Philadelphia, believes the better solution is to make porn literacy part of the larger umbrella of comprehensive sex education. Vernacchio, who is the author of the 2014 book For Goodness Sex: Changing the Way We Talk to Teens About Sexuality, Values, and Health, is one of those rare teenage-sex educators who talks directly to his high school students about sexual pleasure and mutuality, along with the ingredients for healthy relationships. The problem with porn is not just that it often shows misogynistic, unhealthy representations of relationships, Vernacchio says. You cant learn relationship skills from porn, and if you are looking for pleasure and connection, porn cant teach you how to have those.Crabbe notes one effective way to get young men to take fewer lessons from porn: Tell them if you want to be a lazy, selfish lover, look at porn. If you want to be a lover where your partner says, That was great, you wont learn it from porn. And parents should want their teenagers to be generous lovers, Cindy Gallop argues. Our parents bring us up to have good manners, a work ethic. But nobody brings us up to behave well in bed.To prepare his students to be comfortable and respectful in sexual situations, Vernacchio shows photos, not just drawings, of genitalia to his high-schoolers. Most people are having sex with real people, not porn stars, and real bodies are highly variable. I would much rather my students have that moment of asking questions or confusion or even laughter in my classroom rather than when they see their partners naked body for the first time. He, along with Debby Herbenick, who is also the author of the 2012 book Sex Made Easy: Your Awkward Questions Answered for Better, Smarter Amazing Sex, advocate that adolescents should understand that most females dont have orgasms by penetration alone, and that clitoral stimulation often requires oral sex, fingers and sex toys. As she notes: Its part of human life, and you teach it in smart, sensitive ways.As the students from the first Porn Literacy classes moved through their lives in the year after their courses ended, some things from the discussions stayed with them. In surveys from the first three sets of classes, one-third of the students still said they would agree to do things from porn if their partner asked them to. Several also wanted to try things they saw in porn. They were, after all, normal, sexually curious, experimenting teenagers. But only a tiny number of students agreed in the postclass survey that most people like to be slapped, spanked or have their hair pulled during sex, compared with 27 percent at the start of class. And while at the beginning, 45 percent said that porn was a good way for young people to learn about sex, now only 18 percent agreed. By the end of the class, no one said pornography was realistic; just over one-quarter had believed that at the outset. The survey didnt reveal the catalyst for the changes. Was it the curriculum itself? Was it something about Daley and Alders teaching style? Its possible the students created the changes themselves, teaching one another through their in-class debates and discussions.A., the young woman who said she had never seen an image of a penis until she watched porn, resisted the idea that porn was uniformly bad for teenagers. At least kids are watching porn and not going out and getting pregnant, she said. But recently, she told me that shed given up watching it altogether. She disliked looking at womens expressions now, believing that they probably werent experiencing pleasure and might be in pain. When Drew watched porn, he found himself wondering if women were having sex against their will. As another student said with a sigh: Nicole and Jess ruined porn for us.In the months after the class, A. had created a new mission for herself: She was going to always have orgasms during sex. And I did it! she told me. It helped that she had been in a relationship with a guy who was open and asked what she liked. But even if Porn Literacy didnt go into as many details about sex as she would have liked, in this indirect way, the class shows what you deserve and dont deserve, she said. In porn, the guy cares only about himself. I used to think more about Am I doing something right or wrong?  Porn may neglect womens orgasms, but A. wasnt going to anymore.Drew, who had once used porn as his main sex educator, was now thinking about sex differently. Some things need to come to us naturally, not by watching it and seeing what turns you on, he told me. The discussions about anatomy and fake displays of pleasure made him realize that girls didnt always respond as they did in porn and that they didnt all want the same things. And guys didnt, either. Maybe that porn clip in which the nice, tender guy didnt excite the girl was wrong. What Drew needed was a girl who was open and honest, as he was, and with whom he could start to figure out how to have good sex. It would take some time and most likely involve some fumbling. But Drew was O.K. with that. He was just starting out.Maggie Jones is a contributing writer for the magazine and teaches writing at the University of Pittsburghs M.F.A. program. She has been a finalist for a National Magazine Award and a Nieman fellow at Harvard UniversitySign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2018, on Page MM30 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: When Porn Is Sex Ed.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
More than 16 years after 9/11 spurred a broad fight against terrorism, some Americans say its time to look at how the country is deploying its forces.
FEB. 17, 2018
More than 16 years after 9/11 spurred a broad fight against terrorism, some Americans say its time to look at how the country is deploying its forces.By Rukmini Callimachi, Helene Cooper, Eric Schmitt, Alan Blinder and Thomas Gibbons-Neff FEB. 20, 2018Reporting from the desert of Niger to a small town in Georgia, The New York Times reconstructed how four American soldiers lost their lives — and why they were in Africa to begin with.KOLLO, Niger — Cut off from their unit, the tiny band of American soldiers was outnumbered and outgunned in the deserts of Niger, fighting to stay alive under a barrage of gunfire from fighters loyal to the Islamic State.Jogging quickly at a crouch, Staff Sgt. Bryan C. Black motioned to the black S.U.V. beside him to keep moving. At the wheel, Staff Sgt. Dustin M. Wright tried to steer while leaning away from the gunfire. But the militants, wielding assault rifles and wearing dark scarves and balaclavas, kept closing in.Sergeant Black suddenly went down. With one hand, Sergeant Wright dragged his wounded comrade to the precarious shielding of the S.U.V. and took up a defensive position, his M4 carbine braced on his shoulder.Black! yelled a third American soldier, Staff Sgt. Jeremiah W. Johnson, checking for the wounds. Sergeant Black lay on his back, motionless and unresponsive.Cornered, Sergeant Wright and Sergeant Johnson finally took off, sprinting through the desert under a hail of fire. Sergeant Johnson was hit and went down, still alive.LIBYASaharaNigerALGERIAArlitMALICHADNIGERSahelTongo TongoNiameyBURKINAFASONIGERIA300 milesLIBYASaharaNigerALGERIAArlitMALICHADNIGERSahelTongo TongoNiameyBURKINAFASONIGERIA300 milesLIBYANigerALGERIAArlitNIGERMALITongo TongoNiameyNIGERIA300 milesGulf of GuineaAt that point, Sergeant Wright stopped running. With only the thorny brush for cover, he turned and fired at the militants advancing toward his fallen friend.These were the last minutes in the lives of three American soldiers killed on Oct. 4 during an ambush in the desert scrub of Niger that was recorded on a military helmet camera. A fourth American, Sgt. La David Johnson, who had gotten separated from the group, also died in the attack — the largest loss of American troops during combat in Africa since the 1993 Black Hawk Down debacle in Somalia.The four men, along with four Nigerien soldiers and an interpreter, were killed in a conflict that few Americans knew anything about, not just the public, but also their families and even some senior American lawmakers.The deaths set off a political storm in Washington, erupting into a bitter debate over how the families of fallen soldiers should be treated by their commander in chief. In a call with one of the families after the ambush, President Trump was accused of diminishing the loss, telling the soldiers widow that he knew what he signed up for. Mr. Trump angrily disputed the claim, leading to a public feud.But beyond the rancor, dozens of interviews with current and former officials, soldiers who survived the ambush and villagers who witnessed it point to a series of intelligence failures and strategic miscalculations that left the American soldiers far from base, in hostile territory longer than planned, with no backup or air support, on a mission they had not expected to perform.They had set out on Oct. 3, prepared for a routine, low-risk patrol with little chance of encountering the enemy. But while they were out in the desert, American intelligence officials caught a break — the possible location of a local terrorist leader who, by some accounts, is linked to the kidnapping of an American citizen. A separate assault team was quickly assembled, ready to swoop in on the terrorist camp by helicopter. But the raid was scrapped at the last minute, and the Americans on patrol were sent in its place.They didnt find any militants. Instead, the militants found them. Short on water, the patrol stopped outside a village before heading back to base the next morning. Barely 200 yards from the village, the convoy came under deadly fire.Four months later, tough questions remain unanswered about the chain of decisions that led to American Special Forces troops being overwhelmed by jihadists in a remote stretch of West Africa.How did a group of American soldiers — who Defense Department officials insisted were in the country simply to train, advise and assist Nigers military — suddenly get sent to search a terrorist camp, a much riskier mission than they had planned to carry out? Who ordered the mission, and why were the Americans so lightly equipped, with few heavy weapons and no bulletproof vehicles?More broadly, the deaths have reignited a longstanding argument in Washington over the sprawling and often opaque war being fought by American troops around the world. It is a war with sometimes murky legal authority, one that began in the embers of the Sept. 11 attacks and traveled to Afghanistan and Pakistan. It was expanded to Yemen, Somalia and Libya before arriving in Niger, a place few Americans ever think of, let alone view as a threat.The ashes of the fallen twin towers were still smoldering on Sept. 14, 2001, when Congress voted overwhelmingly, with virtually no debate, to authorize the American military to hunt down the perpetrators. It was a relatively narrow mandate, written for those specific attacks, but it has become the underpinning of an increasingly broad mission around the globe. For more than 16 years since that vote, American service members have been deployed in a war that has gradually stretched to jihadist groups that did not exist in 2001 and now operate across distant parts of the world.The result has been an amorphous and contested war that has put Navy SEALs in Somalia and Yemen, Delta Force soldiers in Iraq, and Green Berets in Niger in harms way.30 Nigerien soldiersand one interpreterFive killed11 American soldiersFour killedFive killed30 Nigerien soldiers and one interpreter11 American soldiersFour killedThe deadly ambush in October happened on a continent still largely viewed through the lens of humanitarian catastrophes — a place where most Americans are accustomed to expending dollars, not lives. A military report on what happened, which was supposed to be released in January, is still under review. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told reporters that the investigation runs thousands of pages.The fallout is already underway. A draft of the report has called for the Pentagon to scale back the number of ground missions in West Africa, and to strip commanders in the field of some authority to send troops on potentially high-risk patrols.Perhaps even more significantly, the ambush has exposed holes in the argument that the Pentagon has made under three different administrations: that in many far-flung places, American troops are not actually engaged in combat, but just there to train, advise and assist local troops.After the ambush, members of Congress from both parties said they knew little about the American military presence in Niger, expressing alarm.I didnt know there was 1,000 troops in Niger, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, told NBCs Meet the Press two weeks after the deadly attack. (There are actually about 800 American troops in the country.)This is an endless war without boundaries, no limitation on time or geography, Mr. Graham continued, adding, We dont know exactly where were at in the world militarily and what were doing.His Democratic colleagues claimed equal bewilderment. On the same episode, the Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, said he had also been unaware that there were so many American troops in Niger. He called into question whether the authorization passed in the wake of Sept. 11, and other decades-old war power authorities, left the executive branch with carte blanche authority to send troops into danger without asking Congress first.The Pentagons chief spokeswoman, Dana W. White, declined to comment until the investigation is complete.We have to get the investigation right, she said.But relatives of the fallen soldiers echoed many of the lawmakers concerns. Some of Sergeant Wrights family members did not realize he was in potential danger at all. He had told his maternal grandmother he was in Africa doing paperwork. Some now ask who, and what, the sergeant — their sergeant — was sent to fight.Are we protecting the United States? Who knows? asked Ginger Russell, one of Sergeant Wrights aunts. You dont think of your military in Africa. Youre talking to people who didnt even know how to pronounce Niger. We had to look it up on the map to see exactly where it happened.The Wright family is well aware of how the military works. It can trace its lineage in the armed forces to the War of 1812. Sergeant Wrights father, Arnold, had been a soldier, and his mother, Terri, had been in the military, too.But in a family of military men and women stretching back more than 200 years, Sergeant Wright was the only one who didnt make it home, the family says.Now one of Sergeant Wrights older brothers, Will, who served in the Army and was deployed to Afghanistan, is considering joining the military again. The idea pains their father.Weve paid our dues, he said.Sergeant Wright grew up in the rural town of Santa Claus, Ga., and the towns around it. The streets have names like Rudolph Way and December Drive. At Christmas time, he played Santa Claus for his family.Growing up, he was always trying to outdo his brother, a stellar athlete. When the boys were both playing football, he asked for his jersey number to be 46 — double the number on his brothers back — because he was going to be twice as good, their father recalled.He was not a natural star but, urged on by his father, he was a tenacious competitor and was in the starting lineup when he was a senior, the year his Bulldogs beat their rivals.He came out there to get in the fight every day, said Brian Fitzgerald, who coached Sergeant Wright.He briefly attended Georgia Southern University as a mechanical engineering major. But he came home and worked on gutters, finding the life unfulfilling. He told his best friend, Alton Bass, that he wanted to join a Special Forces unit.He didnt just want to be any person, Mr. Bass recalled. He wanted to be something special.He decided to enlist in the Army in 2012, training at Fort Benning, Ga., and at Fort Bragg, N.C. His buoyant swagger helped hide a fear: he hated parachuting. But he sent his girlfriend a video from one jump. About 30 seconds into the descent, he turned the camera on himself: And thats how you jump out of an airplane, babe.Before he left for Niger last summer, Sergeant Wright took his grandmothers hand at a going-away party and told her, This is the girl for me, Granny, youll like her, Elaine Trull, his grandmother, recalled.A few days before the ambush — on Sept. 24, his 29th birthday — Sergeant Wright called his grandmother. She missed the call, so he left a message.Ten days later, two soldiers came to Ms. Trulls home around midnight. As soon as she saw them, she knew.She still has the message that her grandson left on his birthday.Im glad I missed it because he left me a voice mail that I can play over and over, she said. Three times in that voice mail, he said, Granny, I love you.Three days after Sept. 11, 2001, Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California, was sitting in a pew at the National Cathedral in Washington. It was raining, and the cathedral was teeming with dignitaries. Former Presidents Bill Clinton, George H. W. Bush, Jimmy Carter and Gerald R. Ford exchanged solemn handshakes. There were many hugs in the cavernous room, but little chatter. Everyone still looked shellshocked and frozen.Ms. Lee was in the same teary, emotional state that seemed to have engulfed everyone in Washington. The cousin of her chief of staff had been on United Airlines Flight 93, the airliner that had crashed near Shanksville, Pa.When the dean of the cathedral, the Very Rev. Nathan D. Baxter, spoke from the pulpit, Ms. Lee scribbled his words on her program.Let us also pray for divine wisdom, as our leaders consider the necessary actions for our national security, the reverend said. That as we act, we not become the evil we deplore.With those words, Ms. Lee said, she knew how she was going to vote on the war authorization measure before the House that night.There was no mention of Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden, or Al Qaeda in the short resolution known as the Authorization for Use of Military Force, or A.U.M.F. It simply said that Congress authorizes the president to use all necessary and appropriate force against the nations, organizations or people that he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations, or persons.In the House chamber, Yea votes are registered with green lights, and Nay are red. Ms. Lee looked up after voting. There was only one red light — hers. Ten people didnt vote. All the other lights were green.Several of Ms. Lees colleagues, mostly women, came up to her in the cloakroom afterward, she said, urging her to change her vote. She didnt. She was from a military family and had grown up near Fort Bliss, in El Paso. Her father, a World War II veteran in the Buffalo Soldiers 92nd Infantry Division of African-American troops, called her that night.Among all the hate mail and death threats that she received in the weeks after, Ms. Lee remembered her fathers words: Im proud of you, he said. You dont send our troops into harms way without knowing what youre doing.In the years since the vote, there have been many debates as the war has expanded to branches of Al Qaeda that did not exist when 9/11 occurred and to new groups — like the Shabab (Somalia), Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (Yemen), the Islamic State (Iraq, Syria, Libya and numerous other countries), Boko Haram (Nigeria) and Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (Mali, Libya and other parts of northwestern Africa).The mood in Congress has also changed since that night when the House voted in favor of the resolution. Ms. Lee has found many more colleagues in Congress with reservations. Last June, when she made another of her many attempts to repeal the 2001 war authorization, a majority of the members of the House Appropriations Committee supported her.The committee approved Ms. Lees proposal, but the House Republican leadership eventually killed her amendment. The debate over the authority continued in the Senate until mid-September, only a few weeks before the ambush in Niger.What we have today is basically unlimited war — war anywhere, anytime, any place on the globe, Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said during the debate in September. I dont think anyone with an ounce of intellectual honesty believes these authorizations allow current wars we fight in seven countries.In fact, the war authorization passed by Congress more than 16 years ago has been used so often to justify the deployment of American troops that some administrations have tried to sidestep criticism by finding other legal powers to invoke, including for American troops in Niger.On Feb. 20, 2013, President Barack Obama sent a short letter to Representative John A. Boehner, then the speaker of the House. Citing the 1973 War Powers Act — not the 2001 war authorization, which the administration was already under fire for using too often — the president said the Pentagon would deploy 40 troops to Niger to set up a drone base, conduct reconnaissance flights and help facilitate intelligence gathering for French forces in Mali. The troops, and others to follow, would also provide training and assistance for local Nigerien forces, he said.Now, in the aftermath of the ambush in Niger — and declarations by members of Congress that they did not know the extent of Americas involvement in the country — the debate is happening again. Many lawmakers are focusing broadly on the 2001 resolution, the overarching blanket that has been used to justify the deployment of many American troops in hot spots around the world.Ms. Lee says she plans to try again this year.Its a very dangerous slope that were on, said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma, who sided with Ms. Lee in the Appropriations Committee but later heeded Speaker Paul D. Ryans request to stop it from going to a full vote until the administration could weigh in.Mr. Cole said that American troops should be in West Africa. But, he said, Americas elected representatives should be given a chance to give the go-ahead first.If were going to have people who are in harms way and we know we are putting them in a dangerous situation, there ought to be a more thorough discussion of it, Mr. Cole said.Staff Sgt. Bryan C. Black planned parts of his memorial service before he deployed to Niger.Its something that service members often do. Sergeant Black wanted his mourners to hear Finnegans Wake, the 19th-century Irish folk song that later inspired James Joyces novel.In the song, Tim Finnegan dies from a fall. But when his mourners accidentally spill whiskey on his corpse, he revives, exclaiming, Thunderin Jaysus, do you think Im dead?At the memorial service in Sergeant Blacks hometown, Puyallup, Wash., one of his eulogists explained the choice: He wanted people to have fun, even though they were feeling this heavy loss.The loss of Sergeant Black was felt keenly in his hometown, where he was remembered as a childhood chess whiz, collegiate wrestler and master of languages. Hans Zeiger, a Washington state senator who was a few years behind him in school, remembers being awed by his intellect.Sergeant Black was fiercely competitive. After a chess tournament in which his brother won a trophy and he did not, he spent the entire summer after fourth grade learning how to perfect his game.Many years later, he taught himself obscure local dialects so he could communicate with people he met on far-flung deployments in the military. He also spoke French and Arabic.When Sergeant Black suffered a rare chess loss, he analyzed what went wrong.He wasnt going to lose the same way ever again, said Phil Watson, who grew up playing chess with him.One of his many victories came in his senior year of high school, when he won the 2000 Washington Junior Open with a perfect score, according to Chess.com.The same persistence was evident in wrestling, which he began in high school. Despite being dogged by heat injuries during a high school wrestling camp, he kept at it until he collapsed from heat stroke. After five days in the hospital, he went back and completed the camp, according to his family. He wrestled on the varsity team at Central Washington University, where he graduated in 2002.He was a scholar who could win a bar fight, Mr. Watson said.After college, he moved to Mammoth Lakes, Calif., and worked as a ski instructor and in construction, and met his wife, Michelle, whom he married in 2005.Four years later, he enlisted in the Army, where his family said he found the sort of challenges he always craved, including tough physical training as well as medical studies on nights and weekends.As he prepared to deploy to Niger, Sergeant Black told his father, Hank Black, that he loved him.I placed my hands on his shoulders and prayed for his safety, Mr. Black recalled.That prayer was not answered, Mr. Black would later say at the memorial service for his son. And unimaginable grief entered our lives.Some family members of the fallen soldiers have chosen not to speak about it. Special Forces soldiers value being what they call quiet professionals, who dont seek attention for the dangerous work they do. Before he deployed to Niger, Sgt. Jeremiah Johnson told his family that if he died, he did not want to see his name in the news, said his mother, Debbie Gannon.Im going to honor his wishes, she added in response to a request for an interview.To understand how these men got to Niger, its necessary to go back to Aug. 7, 1998, the day that nearly simultaneous truck bombs exploded at two American embassies in East Africa: one in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and the other in Nairobi, Kenya.The attacks, which killed more than 200 people and wounded 5,000 more, thrust Osama bin Laden onto the F.B.I.s 10 most-wanted fugitives list and started decades of coordination with Kenya to fight terrorism in East Africa.Those bombings were the wake-up call to say to the United States that there is a threat emerging in Africa, said Gen. Carter Ham, a former head of the United States Africa Command.Africa had always been more of an afterthought when it came to American military policy. Even today, the United States has 5,000 to 6,000 troops on the entire continent — compared with 40,000 in Japan, 35,000 in Germany, 25,000 in South Korea and 14,000 in Afghanistan.But Islamist militancy has spread in many parts of Africa, and after the Sept. 11 attacks, the United States doubled down on its counterterrorism strategy on the continent. The Bush administration expanded its presence through new basing agreements and training exercises. The Pentagon moved to build military ties with allies like Morocco and Tunisia, and sought to gain long-term access to countries like Mali and Algeria.More than 1,800 service members were stationed in Djibouti, in the Horn of Africa, to conduct counterterrorism operations. Within a few years, that had grown to 4,000 American military personnel and civilian contractors, making it the Pentagons only permanent base on the continent.By the end of the Bush administration, American Green Berets were training African armies to guard against infiltration by Qaeda militants. And within the first year of the Obama administration, a string of killings, bombings, kidnappings and other attacks against Westerners and security forces in North and West Africa raised fears that Al Qaedas branch in the region, Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, was taking a deadly turn, posing a larger security threat.But by early 2013, many of the Obama administrations ambitious counterterrorism initiatives in Africa lay in tatters. As Islamist insurgents swept through the Malian desert, some commanders of that nations elite army units — the fruit of years of careful American training — defected when they were needed most, taking troops, guns, trucks and their skills to the enemy in the heat of battle.Then an American-trained officer overthrew Malis elected government, setting the stage for more than half of the country to fall into the hands of Islamist extremists.France, the former colonial power, eventually intervened. It struck deep inside Islamist strongholds in northern Mali, blunting an Islamist advance and dispersing the militants, who had created one of the largest havens for jihadists in the world.Thats when President Obama informed Congress that he was sending troops to Niger to help French forces and train local soldiers.The threats continued spreading. Militants attacked a gas plant in Algeria in early 2013, killing 40 people from 10 countries, including the United States. Later that year, the Shabab attacked a shopping mall in Kenyas capital, killing at least 67 people.A month after, American commandos carried out dual raids in Africa, capturing a militant in Libya who had been indicted for his role in the 1998 East Africa embassy bombings, and clashing with the Shabab in Somalia in retaliation for the mall attack.Mr. Obama, at a news conference three days after the raids, declared Africa a place that youre seeing some of these groups gather.And were going to have to continue to go after them, he added.But Mr. Obama also pursued another counterterrorism strategy: relying more on allied or local troops, with a limited American combat role.Militants kept attacking, striking the Radisson Blu hotel in Mali in 2015, the Splendid Hotel in Burkina Faso in 2016 and a beach resort in Ivory Coast in 2016. Westerners, including Americans, were killed. The United States responded by training African militaries, hoping to get them to fight back without committing American troops to another big war, like in Iraq or Afghanistan.By the time President Trump took office in 2017, administration officials showed few signs of backing away from Mr. Obamas overall strategy in Africa. But the Trump administration stepped up drone strikes in Somalia, and the Pentagon presented the White House with a plan that envisioned at least two more years of combat against Islamist militants there.The plan for Somalia includes new rules quietly signed by Mr. Trump last fall for counterterrorism operations outside of conventional war zones. Mr. Trump removed several limits that Mr. Obama had imposed in 2013 on drone strikes and commando raids, loosening vetting requirements before offensive strikes and dropping assessments that every person targeted poses a specific threat to Americans.While the American counterterrorism efforts in Libya and Somalia drew more attention, Niger had become a place increasingly surrounded by jihadist threats.Brian McKeon, a former top Pentagon official, recalled visiting Niamey, Nigers capital, in 2015. Military briefers offered him a sobering assessment: The Islamic State threatened from the north, Al Qaeda from the west and Boko Haram from the south and southeast.Niger, with American help, was trying to cope with the cascade of threats. The Nigeriens were doing a hell of a lot with not very much, Mr. McKeon said.The United States military presence in Niger grew from about 100 personnel in 2013 to about 800 troops now. Five years ago, Nigers government would not have been able to send military patrols outside the capital, said J. Peter Pham, director of the Atlantic Councils Africa Center. That has changed.Increasingly, their military patrols are up and along their borders, said Mr. Pham. Its a good thing theyre out there in risky settings. But the downside is, the risks to U.S. forces with them increase.The Pentagons explanation of what happened to its soldiers in Niger has shifted repeatedly.Within hours of the attack, Defense Department officials said the American ground patrol had been ambushed during a routine reconnaissance mission in which it was simply advising and assisting Nigerien troops.Weeks later, American officials began privately acknowledging that the ambushed soldiers had been diverted from their low-risk patrol and sent several hours away, toward the border with Mali. The change in plans was completely unexpected, and came as the soldiers were already on their way back to base.But an opportunity had suddenly presented itself, American and Nigerien officials now say. Just hours before, American intelligence officials had intercepted a call on an electronic device associated with Doundoun Cheffou, a former cattle herder believed to be a senior lieutenant in a shadowy local group that had recently pledged allegiance to the Islamic State.Mr. Cheffous men were believed by Nigerien and some American officials to have played a role in the kidnapping of the only American to be abducted by jihadists in the region: Jeffery Woodke, an aid worker yanked out of his home in 2016 in Niger, some 300 miles from the spot where the electronic device was turned on.If captured, Mr. Cheffou, code-named Naylor Road by the military, could lead American forces to Mr. Woodke, said Rudy Atallah, the former director of African counterterrorism policy for the Pentagon.For more than two years, Mr. Cheffous group had carried out attacks on Nigerien troops, only to rush back across the border to Mali, taking refuge in a wooded, no-mans land. French security officials say the Islamic State branch has 40 to 60 core members, but is often joined by sympathetic villagers.American officials rushed to get a surveillance aircraft over the spot of scrubland in southwestern Niger from where the signal had emanated, one American official said. Mr. Cheffou was a TST, in military parlance — a time-sensitive target. Getting there quickly was crucial.Doundoun is a terrorist, who is recognized as a leader of the group who conducts operations in the border area, said Nigers minister of defense, Kalla Moutari. We had intelligence confirming the presence of this terrorist, he added, noting that, on the basis of this information, action was taken.Military officials quickly ordered up an assault team of American, French and Nigerien commandos based in Arlit, 700 miles northeast of the capital, to go after Mr. Cheffou, officials say — part of a broader counterterrorism mission named Obsidian Nomad.The Nigerien forces at Arlit were specially trained and equipped by the Pentagon for counterterrorism operations like this one. They were accompanied by American Special Forces advisers who had arrived in the country roughly a month before, officials say.It is not clear how many Americans and Nigeriens were assigned to the helicopter assault mission, or who approved the operation. Such raids have been conducted in Somalia, but the tactic was unusual for the American military in West Africa. Senior American officers who have served in West Africa say it probably would have required Gen. Thomas D. Waldhauser, the head of the militarys Africa Command, in Stuttgart, Germany, to approve such a high-level mission.The scramble to pull together a raid and hunt down Mr. Cheffou upended what had been a fairly uneventful day for the four American sergeants already out on patrol.They were part of a group of 11 American and 30 Nigerien soldiers with a very different assignment: to visit a number of villages to meet with residents and leaders. It was considered routine, low risk and something they were well equipped for.Their convoy was composed of eight vehicles: two pickup trucks and a sport utility vehicle for the Americans, and five trucks for the Nigeriens. Most had medium machine guns, capable of being fired by standing and aiming from the bed of the truck. The units vehicles, the only ones assigned for the deployment, were lightly protected but relatively low profile. They could quickly travel overland on missions that were less dangerous than those in Iraq and Afghanistan.Their weapons were similarly configured. The Americans in the group — an Army Special Forces team called Operational Detachment-Alpha Team 3212 — had been operating in Niger for a little over a month. Most of the team carried M4 carbines, with sights and suppressors for their rifles, according to the video footage. At least one soldier had a single-shot grenade launcher.For visiting local villages in an area that was supposed to have little militant presence, the teams weapons and vehicles made sense. But if attacked by a larger, more aggressive force, Team 3212s members would barely have enough rifles and machine guns to defend themselves.And their trucks, lightly protected with open beds, would leave any passengers inside exposed to enemy fire. Soldiers traveling in the lone S.U.V. could also wind up dangerously confined — with little ability to shoot back — inside the vehicle.Starting around 6 a.m. on Oct. 3, the Americans and their Nigerien counterparts headed out from their base in Ouallam, 60 miles north of Niamey, to villages to meet with community leaders, according to two of the Nigerien soldiers on the mission. In the afternoon, their assignment completed, they began to head back to base.Before they got there, a new order came in: provide backup to the assault mission gearing up in Arlit. The plan was not for Team 3212 to join the raid, officials say, but to get close enough to pursue escaping militants or help out as needed.So, without warning, the Army soldiers out on a daylong patrol with their Nigerien trainees were turned around, pushing deeper into potentially hostile territory, lightly equipped for a new mission that exposed them to risks their commanders did not anticipate.It is not clear who gave the order for Team 3212s new mission. Officers who have served in the region say such a change would require approval and tasking from at least several higher levels — most likely starting with a major in Niamey and a lieutenant colonel in Chad; a task force commander stationed in Germany; and possibly a two-star general overseeing all special forces operations in Africa, also from Germany, where the United States Africa Command is based.But soon, the plans changed yet again. Back in Arlit, the preparations for the raid were falling apart. Bad weather or mechanical problems scotched the assault teams helicopter mission, and American spy agencies determined that Mr. Cheffou and a handful of fighters had left the location, officials say. They believed the trail had gone cold.Still, Team 3212 and the 30 Nigeriens with it were moving into position to back up a raid that was no longer happening, officials said. The same chain of command ordered the team to press on — now on its third assignment in 24 hours. Could the team salvage some of the mission by searching the site where Mr. Cheffou had been, collecting any scraps of information left behind that might offer clues about his hide-outs and network?By this point, current and former military officers and counterterrorism specialists say the team and its chain of command had made some crucial mistakes that would come back to haunt the soldiers.First, the superiors who redirected Team 3212 failed to take note of the increasingly hazardous environment in the border area between Mali and Niger — an area where the United Nations had counted at least 46 attacks in the 20 months before the ambush.But the American Special Forces had faced virtually no enemy contact during months of patrols in the region, Pentagon officials said. The Nigerien troops who set out alongside the Americans had been to the area where the ambush occurred a total of 19 times without incident, said Brig. Gen. Mahamadou Abou Tarka, a senior Nigerien officer.This led to a general complacency, and a false sense of safety, which took root both in the rank-and-file members of the unit and in their commanders, American and Nigerien officials said. Although the Americans in Team 3212 were well trained, they were new to Niger, and some of the soldiers were on their first tour. They were accompanied by Nigerien troops, who are classified as special forces but are, in fact, their trainees.The sense of urgency and risk that infused the planning around the raid from Arlit seemed to recede once that mission was scrubbed and Mr. Cheffou vanished — even though he and his fighters may have remained in the area Team 3212 was entering.As the team pushed on toward the location, running on a set of plans hastily put together, the air support assigned to the raid dropped off. French forces that had been alerted to stand by to support the impending operation also stood down. The team, assigned to support a priority mission, was on its own, current and former American military officials say.Raids are typically carried out between the hours of midnight and 5 a.m., when darkness allows troops to take advantage of one of the tools Americans have at their disposal: Night-vision devices.MALIAkabarBissaoTiloaTongo TongoNIGERMangaizeDakala20 milesMALIAkabarTiloaTongo TongoBani BangouNIGERSoumatMangaizeTibili20 milesMALIAkabarTiloaTongo TongoBani BangouNIGERSoumatMangaizeTibili20 milesEven though the mission was scrubbed, Team 3212 apparently stuck to the same schedule. The Americans and Nigeriens bedded down in sleeping bags next to their vehicles, according to one of the Nigerien soldiers. They rose while it was still dark and pushed through to the militant campsite, hidden under a canopy of trees and set back in the rocks just shy of the Mali border.It was empty, the two Nigerien soldiers said. But someone had been there recently: They found tea, sugar and flour, and an abandoned motorcycle. The tracks in the sand indicated that other motorcycles had sped away. They also found signs of weapons, including 14.5-mm rounds that are fired by antiaircraft weapons capable of heavily damaging most lightly armored vehicles. A case of 12.7-mm heavy machine gun bullets was also found, one Nigerien soldier said.The team gathered material from the campsite and began the long drive back to base as the sun was rising. They had traveled no more than 20 miles of the approximately 110-mile journey back when they approached the first village on their route, a speck on the map known as Tongo Tongo.They were tired and out of water, said one of the Nigerien soldiers who survived. They decided to take a break just outside the village, near a well. A group of villagers approached them, and one offered to run to the village to get them the bucket. He returned sometime later, and they filled their bottles with water.It is unclear who approved the pit stop. But whatever the reason, the delay — in a location close to Mr. Cheffous campsite — made the team more vulnerable with each passing moment in unfamiliar territory. The team had been out for more than a day, pushing through the desert in easy-to-spot vehicles, giving the militants and their web of spotters time to plan an ambush.The village chief walked out to meet the convoy, explaining that several children were sick. The unit began distributing medicine, the Nigerien soldiers said. Some of the soldiers saw men speeding out of the village on motorbikes, they said, possibly to alert the militants.How did the terrorists know that the white people were in our village giving out medicine? said Boubacar Hassane, 45, a villager who was hoeing his millet field outside of the village that day.Some soldiers had the impression that the chief was trying to delay them. He was later arrested, and his phone contained the numbers for known terrorists, including one connected to Mr. Cheffou, Nigerien officials said.Around 11:30 a.m., the patrol left for home. But right outside the village, the convoy came under attack from militants with small arms, machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades.Early in the firefight, Team 3212s leader, Capt. Michael Perozeni, and a radio operator, Sgt. First Class Brent Bartels, were both shot and wounded, probably reducing the teams ability to communicate to higher command, a military official said.In the first radio transmission, the Americans said that Team 3212 was in enemy contact, according to military officials. But they did not call for help for another hour. Its unclear why. For troops in Niger, radio communications are often plagued by distance and terrain. Whatever the reason, the team was unable to talk with French air support and had to communicate through officers in Niamey, according to a draft report of the investigation.TONGO TONGODirection of incoming fire500 feetAMBUSH SITETONGO TONGODirection of incoming fire500 feetAMBUSH SITETONGO TONGODirection of incoming fire500 feetAMBUSH SITETONGO TONGODirection of incoming fire500 feetAMBUSH SITESatellite photograph taken on Oct. 10, 2017, by DigitalGlobe, via TerraServer.At some point, the convoy split up, leaving at least two of the vehicles cut off under heavy gunfire. Sgt. Jeremiah Johnson, Sergeant Wright and Sergeant Black were in the black S.U.V.Somehow, it was left behind.Roughly two hours after the ambush began, the first sign of air support arrived. French Mirage jets flew in low and fast. Behind them came French helicopters with American Special Forces stationed in Mali. The helicopters evacuated the American wounded and the other members of the team who made it to the landing zone.The Pentagon has long asserted that the Americans killed were not left behind, and that teams of Nigerien and French forces were in the area immediately, looking for them.The video of the ambush suggests otherwise. At least two of the dead American soldiers were shown stripped of their equipment and photographed by the Islamic State militants at close range. For a period of time, American troops were in the hands of their enemy.That night, the American Special Forces unit from Arlit arrived in helicopters run by a civilian contracting company and recovered the bodies of Sergeant Wright, Sergeant Black and Sgt. Jeremiah Johnson.It wasnt until Oct. 6 that locals found the body of Sgt. La David Johnson.Twelve days after Sgt. La David Johnsons death, Mr. Trump called his widow.The conversation did not go well.The call came about 3:30 p.m. as a limousine with Sergeant Johnsons widow and her two children sat at Miami International Airport, waiting for the plane carrying her husbands body.Representative Frederica S. Wilson, Democrat of Florida and a friend of the family, said she was in the car and heard the presidents comment that Sergeant Johnson knew what he signed up for.The president denied saying it, but for many Americans, the exchange and the public fight it set off is the most enduring part of the ambush.Sergeant Johnson had been planning to buy the couples first house when he returned. Shortly before heading off to Niger last year, he learned his wife was pregnant.Before joining the Army, he worked in the produce section of the Walmart in a suburb of Miami where he grew up. It was a rough neighborhood, and he was raised by aunts and uncles after his mother died. But friends and family remembered his playful positivity and determination.Small resume bout me, he wrote on Facebook in 2012. I dont drink nor smoke, never got arrested, gotta job.He was best known around Miami as the Wheelie King, because he commuted to work each day on a bicycle with no front tire, listening to headphones and riding a continuous wheelie that would stretch for miles.From an early age he loved to pull things apart and put them back together. A knack for customizing cars led him to mechanic school, then to the military.He was a regular churchgoer and liked to cook. His sister, Torneisha Ghent, said he had been counting the days until he could come home and see his family.When he finally did return home, it was to live television coverage of his grieving widow, Myeshia Johnson, bent over his coffin as she wept.For at least three of the Americans who died in the ambush, their final moments were recorded.Helmet-camera footage from Sgt. Jeremiah Johnson was apparently seized by the militants after his death. It was later provided to a news agency in Mauritania, the Agence Nouakchott dInformation, or A.N.I. The New York Times, seeking details that would help explain how the attack occurred, bought rights to the video from the news agency last month. (A.N.I. said it did not make any payment to obtain the video.)Times reporters, working with a digital forensics expert, were able to verify the videos authenticity and piece together the final stages of the attack. But because the video shows the deaths of the service members and also includes packaged Islamic State propaganda footage, Times editors decided not to publish the video itself.In the footage, the three Americans — Sgt. Jeremiah Johnson, Sergeant Black and Sergeant Wright — are cut off in the desert scrub, under intense fire.Sergeant Black goes down first. Sliding out of the black S.U.V. to help him, Sergeant Wright, the former football player, grabs his friend by the flak jacket and hauls him to the wheel well for cover. He then changes places with Sergeant Johnson and aims over the hood.The gunfire is coming closer now, from a 45-degree angle.Sergeant Wright and Sergeant Johnson begin sprinting flat out. The militants are almost on top of them.Sergeant Johnson, wearing the body camera, trails behind. He is hit and goes down. Sergeant Wright stops running, turns and fires at the militants from behind a bush. The force of his weapon bends the wispy branches like a powerful wind.The militants are moving toward Sergeant Johnson, who is lying exposed on the ground.For several long excruciating breaths, Sergeant Wright keeps the militants away. But theres only so much one soldier can do. The militants shoot Sergeant Johnson several more times, and then turn all of their fire on Sergeant Wright.He holds them off for as long as he can.Rukmini Callimachi reported from Kollo, Niger; Helene Cooper and Eric Schmitt from Washington; Alan Blinder from Lyons, Ga.; and Thomas Gibbons-Neff from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Richard A. Oppel Jr. from Fayetteville, N.C.; Dave Philipps from Colorado Springs; Adam Nossiter from Paris; Charlie Savage from Washington; and Megan Specia, Malachy Browne and Christoph Koettl from New York. Maps by Sergio Peçanha. Produced by Craig Allen and Andrew Rossback.

      By RUKMINI CALLIMACHI, 
    
HELENE COOPER, 
    
ERIC SCHMITT, 
    
ALAN BLINDER and 
    
THOMAS GIBBONS-NEFF

Advertisement
Current Events Conversation By                     
THE LEARNING NETWORK

FEB. 22, 2018
This week, chiefly in response to questions about the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., we heard from new schools across the country, including some in Jersey City, California and Texas, as well as from many students in Greenbrier, Ark. Those comments are still coming in, so were sorry if we missed some. We were impressed by the generally civil tone of the conversation over all, and by the thoughtful and honest responses from all points of view.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear just as they were originally submitted._________Our most-commented-on post this week was, unsurprisingly,  What Is Your Reaction to the Deadly Shooting at a Florida High School? Students unanimously expressed sadness, disgust or horror. There was a wide range of views from students as to the root of the problem of mass shootings in schools, but most commenters mentioned stricter gun laws as a partial solution.BEATTY from SHS Swamps comment garnered a Readers Pick:Its obviously not right what he did and what all the other school shooters did. The government needs to actually do something instead of showing their grievance about the topic. After the Columbine Shooting every town had to have a security guard or a resources officer but as we can all see that has done absolutely nothing. The Florida high school had multiple guards at the school yet he still got in the school, pulled the fire alarm, shot multiple students/ teachers, AND pretended to be one of the students that were trying to escape. The fact that he was able to buy an AR-15 LEGALLY is not good at all. It shows how easy it is to get an AUTOMATIC weapon even with the mental troubles that he as a child and into his teenage years. The US needs to do something about this epidemic and they need to do something about it quickly.Anna Marston from Swampscott High School in Swampscott, Mass., said she was going to march in protest:When I received the notification from my iPhones News app that this shooting took place, my heart sank as I couldnt begin to imagine the fear rushing through the minds of the parents, teachers, and students whose lives were in jeopardy. While my school has not faced any gun violence, I do recall a time in middle school where a student brought a bullet in their backpack to school — I was petrified.In seventh grade after the Newtown incident, I was too scared to go to school for a few days. Guns — ARs in particular — absolutely terrify me and it blows my mind how it takes this many gun-related deaths to heed attention of the country. My school has practiced lockdowns and mentioned the training of ALICE drills but we have not been trained, and this scares me because I would freeze up and not know what to do in the case of an active shooter. I do not believe there are enough school security precautions nor counseling resources in my high school.Honestly, I dont feel safe in school anymore. My town is incredibly safe and the odds might be low of a school shooting, but this does not mean that well be free of any gun violence as this has been the 18th massive school shooting in 2018 alone. I dont feel that its a problem with my school but more a larger political/cultural/governmental problem in the United States, because schools did not face these same acts of violence in earlier years. I am hoping to attend the March For Life on March 24th in Boston Common to protest.Jianwei Li from Philadelphia said no place was safe until stricter gun laws are in effect:The problem with the school shooting isnt necessarily that the school isnt safe or that it has bad security. This is happening again and again and nothing is changing. How do we expect to prevent this if were the ones letting it happen? Anyone can be a victim and any school could be the next potential site for another shooting. What we need right now is change. The government needs to make stricter gun laws to prevent dangerous people getting their hands on a gun. If you look at statistics from other countries where they have stricter laws, there are less incidents happening. If a 19 year old with a mental illness can get a semiautomatic rife, how safe really is our country?SLM from Philadelphia had some concrete suggestions:The gun control laws in this country are horrific. No one else has this many mass shootings or as many guns. Australia hasnt had a mass shooting since 1996. Why is a nineteen-year-old allowed to have a semi-automatic AR-15 rifle? That just doesnt make sense to me. How many casualties need to happen until someone actually does something about it? No civilian needs a weapon like that. People always say that gun control laws shouldnt be written because of the second amendment. But you know what, when the second amendment was written, we didnt have these semi-automatic weapons. If you have psychosis or are prone to manic depression, you shouldnt have a gun! What if you become sad or angry, and to feel better, you pull out your guns, and start shooting innocent people? Thats not okay! Going to school should not be a thing that makes you nervous or terrified that you are going to be shot.Dexter M from Durham N.C., said there were several issues at once:This is an issue that is deeply rooted in American culture that does not seem to have a single solution. While the FBI has prevented many people inspired by these terrible events. There is always a black market for nearly anything. So banning certain guns will not stop a highly motivated individual, however, I am not opposed to banning certain guns such as the AR-15 or Tech-9 (or any sort of semi-automatic gun capable of firing multiple shots in a couple of seconds). Banning these guns would cease the production of them, and therefore reduce their availability. Another form of gun control that could be implemented is required fingerprint activation. Therefore only the legal owner (or whoever else they put on it) can fire a shot. This would most likely help reduce the mass shooting rates, as most of the firearms used are stolen from parents closets or friends houses. In this case, the 19-year-old legally purchased a firearm that — in my opinion — should not be legal in the first place. Preventative measures could also be taken on the mental side, as it is not JUST about the firearms used, its also about the mental health of wielders. Offering free counseling and mental help nationwide would be a great help.Personally, I do not feel safe going to school knowing these events happen on a (near) weekly basis. While there has never been any gun-related issues at my school that I am aware of, I feel the government does little to prevent these events but give their condolences.Andrew Derushia from Wilmington, N.C., said now was the time to act:What happened Wednesday was horrific, and a serious sign that we need gun law reform. 18 lives were taken from this world at the hands of a murderer who should have never been able to grasp the weapons he used to cause this destruction. Along with the many who agree with this idea, there are also ignorant opposers who suggest the guns have nothing to do with the problem and it is all the persons fault. Accept these exact same people are raged when background checks and mental evaluations are mentioned as solutions.Contrary to what these pro-gun people say, guns have allowed 18 school shootings to occur before the end of February. On average 6 children or teens are killed per day by guns in the U.S. Semi-automatic guns which were made for the sole purpose of killing humans shouldnt be allowed to be handled by everyday people. The gun used in the recent shooting, an Ar-15, can empty up to 800 rounds per minute leaving tens of people dead in seconds. If these guns of horrible mass murder were never allowed into the hands of the public these shootings could have been stopped without such large casualties, and maybe even prevented.The time for gun reform is NOW, the time for change is NOW, the time to act is NOW. For the sake of children and adults across America SPEAK UP.Doug ONeal from Kentucky said we shouldnt blame guns:It is a nightmare that no one needs to ever experience, no one should ever have to go through, but I cant help to feel that the problem doesnt so much lay with gun control laws than parental control and a failure of the so called system that doesnt work for the underprivileged or a health care system that sucks. Before the late 80s stuff like this was rarely ever heard of, but once kids were allowed to play video games where there is uncontrolled violence, prayer removed from schools, and music talking about killing people who have made someone mad, thats when things started happening. The issues ahead of us is not going to be corrected by stricter regulations on gun control, guns dont kill people, people kill people, the question is why? Lawmakers and legislators should look closer at the real issues and stop trying to blame a tool instead the users and the so called systems that have allowed our children to slip through the cracks of society and become a tool for their political views. The idea of tougher laws on guns isnt the answer, fixing a broken system is a better start. When our children suffer at the hands of a drunk driver are automobiles blamed? Children are products of their environment and when legislators and lawmakers want to blame guns for the problems we face today all I can say is look a little better at the real issues and stop trying to place blame on an object that can not do anything unless it has someone to use it.rey Hicks from New Orleans agreed:I dont think guns are the problem here. I think that the customer should be checked out and observed closely and tested by certain individuals with no mental illness. Then it can be decided whether they can pay for it, or they have proper training and all that jazz. This is a sad subject and I wish for the best of the victims of this incident but I wish that you dont blame guns.Landon Elizabeth from Florida said other countries dont have mass shootings:I am 15, and I now fear for my safety at school.The first problem is the gun laws itself, we need gun control laws in place, so no unstable 19 year old can go purchase an assault rifle. Its actually so mind blowing how money hungry congressmen are that theyd rather receive and collect money from the NRA, than do what they signed up for, which is to run and protect this country.Asal Al Mohamed from Wolfeboro, N.H., said guns are illegal in his home country, Oman:First of all, being an international student from Oman, we never have lock down drills or safety precautions because these mass shootings never happen in my country. Guns are illegal in Oman which means that no one owns guns and Ive also never heard of a shooting in Oman. However, studying at a boarding school in the U.S introduced me to the idea of lock down drills. My school has some safety precautions to prevent possible shootings. Just like fire drills, we have lock down drills that prepare us for this type of incident. We also have good security and doors that are only accessed by students and faculty key cards. So yes, I feel safe in my school.b from Wilmington would like to abolish guns completely:I am afraid. When I walked into school on Thursday I couldnt help but think of what I would do if someone started shooting up my school. Would I live or die? Would my friends survive? Would I have the courage to help injured people? What would I do. Its terrible that I and a lot of other people had thoughts like these running through our heads the mornings and weeks after these continuously occurring tragedies. Whats even worse is the innocent lives lost. People with so much to live for gone in an instant. People who would still be alive today if our government would pay attention and DO SOMETHING about it. Im not saying that I have all the answers and that my opinion is the solution to this epidemic but I know that something needs to be done.If I had it my way I would do away with guns. I know that this is an unpopular opinion and that it is virtually impossible to get rid of all the guns in the United States but thats what I would do if I could. At the very least we should do with automatic assault weapons, which by definition are used for infantry use, and have better mental health screenings for people trying to license their guns. I hope that as a nation we have a revelation and make an effort to prevent another tragedy like Parkland from happening again by snuffing out this epidemic from the source.Andy G from North Carolina thinks guns are analogous to some drugs:I would like to start off by sending out prayers to the families that lost a close one in their lives, but making guns illegal wont help. Think of it this way; many drugs are illegal and people still get them, so if guns become illegal people will still find ways to get them. If I could make a solution it would be to give more in depth background checks.Francesca Altunyay from Wilmington, N.C., is exhausted:There are so many things I want to say about this tragedy. There is so much grief, so much anger inside of me that inundated every other sense I felt on Wednesday. So many words I want to say to the gunman, to the high school students who were all irreversibly affected by him, to Congress. But I feel like I cant anymore. I am so exhausted. So inexplicably tired of the needless and terrifying violence that has gripped America, that weve become despicably desensitized to because it happens so often. So tired of just thoughts and prayers, and idleness, when already over a dozen school shootings have occurred since the beginning of 2018. So tired of mass shootings being chalked up to mental illness, when mental illness is an issue globally, yet the U.S. is still the only nation where this regularly happens. So tired of hearing guns dont kill people, people kill people, when we should be fixated on the fact that people are being killed in the first place. So tired of seeing that an amendment that was written over 200 years ago is being protected over the lives of children who didnt deserve this. So tired of every single victim of gun violence being overlooked, not given justice, and forgotten about because our government puts them on the back burner.I am tired, and ashamed of this country and the people who run it. Weapons should not take priority over people any longer. Things need to change. And they need to change now.Olivia Lain from Wrightsville Beach, N.C., wants her children to grow up in a world where gun violence is a thing of the past:In America, mass shootings have become an epidemic. What is the appropriate response to an epidemic? Eradication. When smallpox was an issue, we did all in our power so that no one could get smallpox ever again. Vaccines werent given to a select few, they were given worldwide so that absolutely no one would suffer from it, and there hasnt been a case of smallpox since it was officially declared eradicated in 1980. Action was taken by those in power to eliminate the disease, real action, not just their thoughts and prayers. The phrase thoughts and prayers should be used in cases of unpreventable destruction, such as an earthquake, and not the destruction that could be solved by the passage of legislation by Congress, preventing such deaths. Banning all semi-automatic guns and assault rifles at the very least would prevent the mass shootings we see all-too-often today. Another phrase that gets tossed around often in the wake of a mass shooting is guns dont kill people, people do. While this is true in a sense, you could kill a lot more people at once with an AR-15 than with a knife.Rennat Hosley from Wilmington, N.C., thinks the Second Amendment is out of date:I have to start off by saying this was very tragic event that happened on Valentines Day, I give my prayers to the families whose loved ones passed during the shooting. The way people obtain guns need to be restricted, or harder to obtain, I know the 2nd amendment is the right to bear arms, and people take that law very seriously, but nowadays we really dont need the weapons. Also many people use the weapon for bad uses like murder, or intimidating people and thats increasing many crimes. According to the article it says the man was using an AR-15 assault rifle and according to the laws of gun control you can purchase an AR-15 when youre at the age of 18 with a license but you have to be the age of 21 to purchase a handgun. That doesnt make much sense from the fact that an AR-15 can be more deadly than a handgun. I hope someday we can fix this problem happening in America.Manuel Garza from Los Angeles focused on the Florida students experience:I heard that students were Snapchatting their experience during the whole thing. And that people are calling them out and saying that what they were doing was stupid. Which is very insensitive since the students didnt know what else to do. One student said that they were all calling 911 and 911 told them to stop calling.Amber M from South Carolina relayed personal experiences:A couple years ago there was a gun incident at my brothers school — a kid brought a gun to show off to his friends, it accidentally went off. It was chaos for awhile, people didnt know if it was an accident or not. All my family knew was that a shooting had occurred at my brothers school, everyone was so worried.At my old school, a kid brought a gun to school this year and went running through the halls with it. He didnt shoot anyone, but he escaped campus and caused a big police chase. A lot of fear in both of those incidents when families were still figuring out what was going on. Every year we have to watch videos on what to do if a shooting occurs, and they always remind us of the genuine danger that schools can present these days. Its frightening to have to worry about friends and siblings whenever theres an incident. Especially in my state, where guns are really easy to obtain, theres a lot of worry.Luiza Sulea from Philadelphia replied to Amber M and took issue with some schools gun policies:Wow, that is so scary. I think that if something like this happened in my school, Id be too panicked to breathe. Even in these nonviolent gun situations, it just shows how terrible and how easy it is to sneak a weapon into school. I read something a while ago that a student wrote. She said that it was against her schools policy to wear a tube top, but the students were allowed to carry a weapon under 4 inches. I dont necessarily know if this is true, but I wouldnt doubt it with all the weapon and gun violence that has been happening recently.Deana Perera from Bryant, Ark., suggested things schools can do:The school shootings that periodically erupt all over the United States are terrible and my heart is filled with sorrow at the thought of so much suffering. May God please bless all those suffering from the shooting yesterday. Thankfully at my high school we have not had to suffer through any shootings recently.I believe that tightening gun laws will only solve half the problem because I feel that schools can do more on their part in taking good security measures. Some pretty good security measures that all schools might want to consider are resource officers and student IDs. The resource officers not only intimidate any one who poses a threat from outside the school, but their presence also effectively discourages violence within the school. Threatening disciplinary action to anyone walking around without a student or administrators ID, all schools can be very careful about who they let on campus. Another step schools can take is an alert system that connects to all administrators phones so that if there is a threat to the school, all administrative personnel can be immediately notified without having to spread the information through the intercom system and also alerting the shooter. The awful shootings are heart-wrenching and devastate many lives. We need to do everything we can to help each other and keep our schools safe. These precautionary steps arent always the cheapest, but can anyone really put a price on how much peoples lives are worth?Oliver D. from Central Texas knows what to do in the event of an active shooter, thanks to a teacher:With the influx of school shootings this year, I feel like the schools in my area are growing less and less safe. A year or so ago, one student made a threat against the school on social media, claiming he would blow up the gym during a pep rally. The next day, after the comments had been posted, the school looked like a ghost town. Parents kept their kids home and kids skipped collectively. We did not address the issue in school, just went on after we realized the threat was empty. The panic of that day, of not knowing if some upset student would come in and target me and my friends or if we were afraid for nothing. My health science teacher, of course, was my savior when it came to situations like this, having given my class a semester of CERT (Civilian Emergency Response Training) I know what to do, where to go, and how to get my classmates out. The ONLY solution is gun controlBorad Manuch from Texas reacted to the shooting with bitter acceptance:My reaction to the Florida shooting was actually just solidly passive and bitterly accepting. It was another school shooting, nothing shockingly knew, I thought. Youd think that at this point in time, after so many school shooting cases, that the higher ups that run our country would have already taken care of it. But as everyone can see now this isnt the case.While I do understand that the having the right to bear arms is part of the American identity but as a collateral to having that much power in a persons hand, then there should be strict ways to obtain a gun. I dont have the slightest idea on how to effectively prevent a school shooting but that is not up to me to decide neither it is my responsibility to do so. But I do know what thing for sure and that is to obviously do something to prevent school shootings.Ronald Zigler from Lansdale, Pa., made an analogy to a myth:I am reminded of the story of the Minotaur, or of any ritual from ancient legend in which children were sacrificed as a form of tribute. The parallels to our contemporary world are only too clear. For far too many politicians and gun-worshippers, periodic human sacrifice is the necessary tribute that sustains their devotion. As Carl Jung, Aldous Huxley and Joseph Campbell would have each pointed out, our modern civilization is but a veneer, that is often quite transparent._________Just hours after 17 people were killed in a mass shooting at their high school in Parkland, Fla., students turned to social media to advocate for more gun control.A related Student Opinion question, Can High School Students Make a Real Impact on the Problem of Gun Violence in the United States? was also popular. Below, weve posted first those responses that answer our overarching question, then those that share opinions on guns and gun control in general.AdvertisementJason Curnett from Arkansas said students already were making a difference:Can high school students make a difference when it comes to gun control? I say they already are. Why change is happening now, after 19 years since the shooting in Columbine, why it took yet another mass shooting to become highly public, why it took seventeen more deaths, why we had to endure this many tragedies before a change is actually happening, I have no idea. However, the work that the students from Florida are doing is phenomenal. It takes a tragedy to make a change, but it shouldnt have taken this many tragedies. So, to answer the question, yes they can. In fact, they seem to be doing a better job of making a change than anyone has before.Luke Lamporte from Wilmington, N.C., said his perspective was changing:I am a Republican, born and raised. I am also all for the Second Amendment, the right to bear arms, and I believe that the government should not have complete control over our guns. But after seeing school shootings like this over and over on the news, there comes a time when any rational person must think Hmm, maybe we should try to do something about all these shootings. What these students went through is absolutely heart breaking. I couldnt imagine what some of the kids, especially the younger kids must have felt. This is something that will change their lives forever. And if we just choose to see the whole situation as it is, a terrible thing, and if we dont look at the good that could possibly come from this, then nothing will change. This event, as horrible as it is, sparked a flame of inspiration inside the hearts of these students to go and make a difference and I believe this terrible act of violence does in fact have the potential to turn into something good.Ever since I was old enough to really start watching the news Ive been seeing almost countless reports on shootings all around the country. Honestly, I found myself growing numb to them. But hearing all these stories of the kids doing heroic things and all the students getting together for a great cause to help save lives and protect future generations has lit a spark in me too. I intend to help these students in any way possible to accomplish their goal of having stricter regulations on guns.Jordyn I from Westfield, N.J., said this generation had the power to change the world:I believe that my generation has the power to change the world more than any group before us. Unlike the generations in decades past, we have more information available to us than ever before. Social media, arguably the most powerful tool of communication in the history of the world, is at our fingertips. With the click of a button, our words can be shared with millions. All it takes is one tweet, one post on Instagram or Facebook. And a second later, your opinion is broadcasted everywhere. The internet has empowered us to have the ability to change the world, even at the young ages that we are.Ryan French from Wilmington, N.C., said school walkouts were showing people that change needs to happen, and happen fast:I do think that there is a way for students to make the government make changes to gun laws. With the school walkouts that are currently happening along with the Moms Demand Action group creating a whole nother separate group, student focused advocacy group, something needs to be done and will be done after more people start to join in on these things. These kids were born into a world where they have to practice lockdown drills and even fathom the thought that a school shooting could happen at their own school.The people affected in this school shooting are speaking out, whether or not they are doing it in public or behind locked doors they are talking about this. Luckily with the power of the internet the students made videos and posted them online where we could see them and see how they really feel about the gun laws. In one of the videos a parent is talking about their child and how she was shot at school and he then says, dont tell me theres no such thing as gun violence. The video then cuts to people chanting, no more guns, no more guns. Now I dont completely agree with the crowd on this but I do think there should be a change to gun laws and that change and the law needs to happen fast.Emiko Andrews from Wilmington, N.C., said the tragedy had caused students to rise up:I believe that from the ashes of this tragedy, we are seeing high schoolers gain a new voice. From the combination of the age of the victims, to the devastation that occurred on the 14th, to the frequency of mass shootings, many of us are yearning to make change in any way we can, because we see ourselves in the victims. By protesting and walking out of school, and by keeping pressure on representatives and the NRA, we will make our voices heard. Will this effect change? I hope so. I dont want to keep worrying about being gunned down in my own school, or seeing my classmates die. Emma González is just one powerful voice being heard today, but it will take all of our efforts if we hope to see an end to mass shootings.McKenzie Ingram from Wilmington, N.C., said students should use their voices:After the mass shooting in Florida, many people from my school took to social media to rant about how they hated that this had to happen and how they hated that no action was being taken to prevent it in the future. Im angry too, Im angry that this tragedy is something that we have to fight for in order to prevent. In the article, A Mass Shooting Generation Cries Out for Change, when Delaney Tarr stated that she, cannot remember a time when she did not know about school shootings, I really related to her. I remember having lock down drills when I was in early elementary school. No one ever said it but I know that everyone was thinking, we are doing this for practice if someone ever decides to shoot up our school. School shootings have become so frequent that Ive even had multiple nightmares about school shootings. Ive had around 3 nightmares in which someone brings a gun into my school and starts murdering everyone in sight. Students should not be having dreams about being shot in their schools! Schools should be a safe place for everyone, schools should be a place where students can learn and grow along with their peers. Not bleed and cry out for help. I think that people everywhere should use their voices and call for action. Honestly, it shouldnt take this much effort for change but I think that if we all stand up for what is right and fight for action to be taken, we can and will end the fears of many people living in America: mass shootings.Monalene Delo from Wilmington, N.C., said a students focus should be on getting an education:In a generation where we have grown up hearing about school shootings as a regular occurrence, something needs to be done. It is an absolute tragedy to think of the lives that have been lost as a result of our current gun control legislation. Our generation has become so used to the idea that this can occur. We as students have a job and that is to get an education to make something of ourselves, but when we feel that it is no longer safe to go to school, then what? We need to make a change, in the article the author references a teacher saying people say its too early to talk about it but when is it the right time? It seems to me that every time a school shooting occurs we talk about gun control, but when will we actually take action. One recent movement Never again has been started by the students in Floridas most recent shooting to advocate for more gun control. We are the generation of change. Previous generations will never understand the fear that goes through our minds. It could have been my school, my friends. Enough is enough. We as students should not have to worry for our safety at school. Our main focus should be getting an education. Students shouldnt have access to guns. We need to speak up, not be afraid to talk to our teachers, counselor, and school resource officers. If we hear of anyone that could be a threat to our safety. We need to think about how this affects the lives of our students and protect them to the best of our abilities.Colby Linn from Arkansas said background checks were a good idea:By a Liberals logic on gun control, the best way to solve drunk driving would be the take cars away from sober people. This is what they are trying to do with firearms. There are millions of law abiding gun owners across America who use firearms as personal defense weapons, for hunting, or just for collecting. Illegal or not, if someone, like Nicholas Cruz, is crazy enough to commit murder on that scale, they will get their hands on a gun one way or the other. There are many alternatives to a ban on firearms, such as increased screenings and background checks, which I am fully behind. No mentally unstable person should be able to legally purchase a gun. Another thing is arming and training teachers. If the teachers in Florida were armed and trained, then the death count could have been much lower. Again, a direct ban on firearms will do nothing but harm, and as a U.S citizen it is an explicit infringement on the second amendment.Addison Duncan from Greenbrier, Ark., said some restraint is needed:Most of my family are strong Republicans. I grew up in a Republican house. I am also a firm believer in the Second Amendment. The Second Amendment to the United States Constitution protects the right of the people to keep and bear arms and was adopted on December 15, 1791, as part of the first ten amendments contained in the Bill of Rights. I mourn for the lives lost in the Florida shooting, but I believe that we need to take some sort of precaution. My father has his concealed carry license. The ONLY reason he carries a handgun EVERYWHERE is for the protection of my family. If someone comes and tries to shoot MY family, he can protect all of us because of his concealed carry license.My parents worry every day for my sister and I to go to school because it could happen to anyone. In the small town of Greenbrier, Arkansas, NO one would EVER imagine a mass shooting here. Our parents NEVER had it this bad when they were in high school. Our perspective on this is VERY different than the older generation. Some people do not realize how uncomfortable it is to go to a public school now. My mother has constantly told me, Addison, when I was in school, it was NEVER like this... Overall, we need to have some sort of restraint, but not so harsh that we cannot have guns at all. I hope that being educated on this topic can have some sort of impact on our society today.David B from Arkansas said he had always feared the damage guns can cause:All of my life, Ive grown up around guns, yet Ive always had a fear of the damage that they can cause. When I was 10, I shot a gun for the first time; a .22 caliber long-rifle, and I loved it. I know that Ive always been a good shot, and it was great to one-up my older brother with my accuracy. Guns are practical; they are tools that we use to hunt and that we use in War. As I was always told as a child, guns are not toys.I believe that guns are not the problem in our world, but instead the fingers that pull the triggers that are problematic. A gun cannot shoot itself, but instead a mechanism is pulled back to strike a pin and thus fire a bullet. A human finger causes the gun to fire; a human mind causes the human finger to move. The mental state of a human determines whether or not innocent lives will be lost; not a gun. Say that a shooter were to come into a classroom, and open fire on students. What would students do? They would be completely defenseless against the bullets. One way to solve this is allowing teachers to conceal-carry guns to school. Even if the teacher is shot down in attempting to defend the classroom, a brave student would likely grab the teachers gun and defend the classroom by his or her self. If the government allows teachers to conceal carry a weapon, there should be certain rules set into place, such as a carrying teachers anonymity. Overall, school shootings are a problem that is growing. The government should restrict people, not gunsBailey Stovall from Greenbrier, Ark., said the issue needed to be addressed:While most of us can not even vote yet, we certainly all share one thing. We have a voice. A voice that we can project and allow many to hear in hopes someone will listen and actually address this issue instead of sweeping it under the rug. As said in the article, situations like this dont need to be approached so early, but we are far too late. This needed to be approached much before, and not just talked about for maybe half a month and dropped when something new comes to the news. No, this is an issue that needs to be addressed much more often, and high school students, the ones that have participated in the lock down drills for so long, can help raise awareness to it.Tira Frazier from Arkansas said we needed gun control despite the Second Amendment:The Second Amendment is our right to bear arms, which allows us to have guns. Freedom or not, I believe we need gun control. We do not need AR-15s lying around. Guns less likely to do damage should still be around, thats all. This is a mental health issue just as much as it is a gun or person issue. We need to be aware that this is how it has to be: it takes 17 people to die for this to be brought up again for what to happen: nothing? This is not Liberal V. Conservative. This is a battle against unnecessary killings that take the lives of those that are precious to us. As a high school student, we can use our voice all we want and hope we get justice. Mention our peers that are dying because of gun violence, and maybe well get results.Classic Smith from Greenbrier, Ark., said to take guns away from mentally unbalanced people:People will say that its not the guns, but the people. That is just stupid. If the people that have the guns are mentally unsound then we need to take the guns away from them. Some people will say that outlawing guns will only keep it away from the average person and only criminals will have them. However, people who have remote access to them; black market dont do crimes like this, they assassinate people and dont get caught. Also nearly every gun that is on the black market was purchased legally and is then sold illegally.Presley Cullum from Arkansas said we needed stricter requirements to buy a gun:I believe that our country should take action to stop these school shootings. We have already had more mass shootings in 2018 than most countries have ever had! I dont agree in banning guns completely but I do think we should definitely have some stricter laws on acquiring them. People need to go through a longer process and have to meet stricter requirements to buy a gun. Although this wont keep all harmful people from getting guns, it will be a whole lot harder and possibly decrease the number of shootings. I most definitely think we shouldnt just sit back and let these terrible shootings keep happening. A change needs to be made._________Our Picture Prompt "Black Panther" brought in comments from Southern California to Rhode Island.AdvertisementBeatriz Mallory from Southern California was excited for the movie, even though not a Black Panther fan:I will be attending tonights opening at a 3D theater. I am not a Black Panther or Marvel fan, preferring drama and science fiction. My reason to attend is to participate in the excitement of the birth of a new cultural touchstone for African Americans.... As a fashion enthusiast, I am also excited at seeing how those of us who will dress up will interpret the esprit of everyday Wakandans.Nyah Price from Providence, R.I., thinks the movie will change peoples views on black actors:I cant wait to see Black Panther, Im practically counting down the hours till I get to see it. I am a black, female, superhero nerd and I can say that Black Panther is a Marvel hero that many nerds have been waiting to see as a live action movie. Growing up he was a character that I looked up to because he looked like me, he had dark skin, and I also looked up to his wife (Storm from the X-Men who I hope they have to meet TChalla in the upcoming movies). Black Panther represents something that resonates with people, he is a strong, powerful, confident black man that rules a country with a tender heart. Now this generation can see what I, a sixteen-year-old girl, and the generation before me got to love and enjoy. The cast is made up of beautiful actors that get to show us their representation of a story that I grew up hearing. This movie is going to change peoples views on what black actors, and superheroes, are made of.Janelly Polanco from Rhode Island said the movie catered to all ages and all people:Watching Black Panther has been my weekend plans since its creation was announced. This movie is not only in the superhero genre, aka the best kind of movie, but it features an all African American cast. With such lack of African American actors in big, successful movies, the wait for this movie has been a long one. Watching this movie will allow people EVERYWHERE so see black excellence and success. The setting of the movie even portrays the theme of black excellence and success. In society today, with so much hatred and rare unifying instances, a movie that caters to all ages and all people is much needed. This movie has been unifying for POC I know. Even people who know absolutely nothing about the background and creation of the movie are excited to watch it.Brandon Navarrete from Wilmington, N.C., thinks the movie will unite African-Americans:I am totally going to watch the Black Panther, with my family and friends. I believe this movie will be a huge hit for Marvel and will also bring in many fans on opening weekend. I have seen the previews for this and it looks beyond good, it seems action packed, exciting and it will have a good story line leading into Marvels Avengers: Infinity War. Apart from this, Kendrick Lamar co-produced a genuine soundtrack that sounds amazing, it adds extra excitement to the movie in my opinion.This movie alongside others from MNarvel such as Guardians of the Galaxy and Thor Ragnarok, are connected to Marvels biggest movie coming in May. Apart from the entertainment aspect of this movie, there are also cultural and political sides to it, which is why I think its gathering so much interest among fans and critics. According to the article there hasnt been as much hype to African-American audiences since Spike Lees Malcolm X in 1992. A huge key factor is that the cast is mostly African American apart from Martin Freeman and Andy Serkis. I can say I agree with the statement that Mr. Grey stated saying that this film should be understood in a political context in which both the legal gains of the civil rights movement and the interracial optimism of Obama era have been undermined. This movie will bring people together and unite African-Americans, the concept of this whole project is truly amazing. Its going to be a grand expression of cultural pride for the African-American populationTyler Rouse from Wilmington N.C., said the movie offered superhero equality:Heck yeah, Im gonna see Black Panther! It looks like a great movie especially because it has already had so much success. Its great to finally have a superhero movie with a black cast. This is probably a big reason why it has so much interest. Many black children and little girls only have white male superheros to look up to. Its great to finally have a black superhero that isnt a sidekick. Also, Hollywood is starting to have more female superheroes such as Wonder Woman, the Scarlet Witch, and the Black Widow. I love how more women and people of color are getting better opportunities in the movie industry. Its a huge advancement in equality with jobs. Especially the movie business. I am a white male that grew up loving Captain America. It would be sad to grow up as a black child or little girl without a superhero to identify with. I was Captain America for Halloween for three years in a row. Its time for little girls and children of color to have a chance to be a superhero for Halloween.Ryan French from Wilmington, N.C., bought tickets for opening night, and said the soundtrack by Kendrick Lamar was fantastic:I cannot wait to see Black Panther, I actually just bought my tickets for opening night. This film has been getting hype ever since they announced it back in October of 2014, and it deserves every second of it! Chadwick Bosemans performance as Black Panther in Captain America Civil War was phenomenal and was the highlight of the movie to me. Now two years later hes getting his own film and I am so excited. The whole cast is primarily African-American excluding Andy Serkis and Martin Freeman but the whole cast is super stars. They have Michael B. Jordan as the main villain (Erik Killmonger), Luptia Nyongo (Star Wars the Force Awakens), Forest Whitaker (Rogue One), Daniel Kaluuya (Get out) just to name a few. This film is shaping up to be one of Marvels (yet again) grand slams. The movie is a superhero fans dream of a Black Panther movie, and it could really intrigue common movie goers too. The soundtrack by Kendrick Lamar is fantastic and just another reason to go and see the movie. Finally we have the reason people are probably most excited for Black Panther, it is the last Marvel movie before Avengers Infinity War and everyone is excited to see how this leads into Marvels biggest movie ever._________Our Student Opinion prompt Do You Think Youve Already Forged Your Lifelong Taste in Music? elicited a range of responses — and lots of recommendations for great music.Jared Duarte Massachusetts said hip-hop had been a lifelong love:My favorite genre of music is Hip Hop, Ive been really into it ever since eighth grade but Ive actually been listening to it all my life. Examples of artists: Future, Drake, A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie, Eminem, Ed Sheeran, NF, Lil Uzi Vert. Im more into the rapping side of hip hop rather than the actual singing, so i guess thats where the Old School Rap comes into play. I used to listen to only rock songs with my Mom, Dad and Brother such as songs by A.C.D.C., Doors Down, and The Beatles but the music started to leave my mind while listening to the radio with friends because when they grew up they were listening to hip hop or both hip hop and rap. Either way my generation grew up with hip hop being more popular then most other genres. Many of my family members dont listen to hip hop but my cousins do and as a kid I would spend a lot of time with them at my grandparents and we would I guess connect to what the artists were singing or rapping about. So yes I believe I have forged my lifelong taste in music and that taste is hip hop.Jimbus Supreme from Cool Person Avenue thinks the information is unsurprising:1. Nothing in the article, despite the fact that the information was new to me, particularly surprised me. It makes sense that a persons taste in music solidifies during a time which their brain is finishing development; ages 11 - 16. 2. Ive never had a favorite song, but one artist I was introduced to when I was around 14 was Mac Demarco, whom I still thoroughly enjoy listening to at 17. 3. The reason early teen years are significant for forging a persons music taste is because during the early teen years, a persons brain is beginning the final stage of development. At this time, a person is more open to ideas and music. Once a persons brain is effectively developed fully, though, they are less open to new ideas and in conjunction, new music. 4. Talking to my parents and other adults around their age (50s), I have noticed that they generally enjoy the same musical artists; the Beatles, ELO, Queen, etc. Generally, these bands were popular during a 50 year olds teenage years, so it does support the evidence. 5. Mainstream music is repeated garbage, so the challenge is actually listening to it as a parent. Most mainstream billboard hits use the exact same elements, and act as money generation machines, not music. Musical complexity is low, tracks are compressed to hell, and all of them use almost identical melodies. Often, listening to this type of music is unengaging for parents who grew up listening to much more varied, complex, and creative music.Kate Silver from Wilmington N.C., said her taste in music was ever-changing:My music taste is constantly changing. If you asked me a year ago what my favorite song was, I can guarantee that my answer is different today. Every few months, I have to erase my Spotify playlist and start from scratch because I get sick and tired of the songs on it. Just three months ago, I was obsessed with The Red Hot Chili Peppers, and three months before that, I would only listen to mid-2000s rock. Assuming this trend continues, I cant imagine myself liking the same music I like now in 20 years. The music industry is perpetually evolving. Artists are always striving to find new ways to make their songs stand out and keep their audiences coming back for more. Who knows, maybe my favorite song will be one in an entirely different dimension that has yet to be discovered. 20 years is a long time from now.I will admit that Ill blast Taylor Swifts You Belong With Me when it comes on the radio and bask in the joy of still knowing all the words. Like the men in their 30s who love Creep, I will always have a special place for the songs that remind me of my childhood in my heart, but I look forward to discovering new songs and further developing my musical taste.McKenzie Ingram from Wilmington, N.C., thought the age range would be older:In this article, I really did not expect that the age where we usually find our lifelong taste in music would be 13 or 14 years old. I expected the age range to be around 20-27. Personally when I was around 13 or 14 I had quite a broad range of music but its nothing compared to the wide range of music that I listen to today. I mainly listened to emo bands such as, Good Charlotte, My Chemical Romance, Twenty One Pilots and A Rocket to the Moon. I think that the early teen years are significant for forging a lifelong taste in music because in these early years we are starting to truly realize who we are and who we want to be. The music that we listen to in this time is significant because we are in the midst of discovering what we want to do in life and how we want to do it, and the music follows us along the journey and reminds us of who we are. I feel that today, older generations struggle with the amount of swear words that are used in most songs today. Growing up in past generations, swearing was considered sinful and impolite. So now when older generations hear these words on the radio, they are typically astounded and wonder why these artists have to use such foul language to share the message of their song (or at least thats what my mom does).Parker Maner from Wilmington N.C., said the research was flawed:In my opinion I dont think the music I listen to today will be the same that I chose to enjoy as an adult, mostly because there will always be a new rap artist/album with a better flow than the one from a couple weeks ago. Now that seems like a pretty rude answer until you realize the flaw in the article... The title asks about your taste and I agree with. But the article shares research that for men that are now 38 rate Creep by Radiohead as the 164th on the charts, it then shares the song came out when they were 14, and it wasnt as popular for men either 10 years older or younger. Seth Stephens-Davidowitz comes to the conclusion that when the men are 14 the songs they like then shape the songs they listen to for the rest of their life. I think this is wrong and if it is correct it needs a different, wider data set. The research tells you that the men still like the song, not that they listen to similar songs in the genre. I believe a similar explanation to explain the data is that men in women are in middle school, I mean junior high while they are 13 and 14, it has been shown that these are a challenging times in life. Songs that got them though that bring back great memories and thats why they are popular for these men. I think other songs in the genre from when they are the age of 13 or 14 need to be compared to songs that are more recent that share the genre. Therefore I dont agree with the article when the title is different from the research.Emilia Cordon Wilmington, N.C., was exposed to classical music through ballet classes:Ive had trouble really finding my musical taste recently and was surprised after hearing that my preferences have probably been set already. From a young age my primary exposure to music has been through ballet and my parents. In ballet we listen to classical nonstop and Ive grown to really appreciate it but it never particularly struck me. What really struck me at a young age was those long car trips with my dad listening to Queen, Led Zeppelin, The Police, and The Doors. Just nonstop jamming out to Bohemian Rhapsody, Black Dog, Roxanne, and Break on Through ingrained some of the best songs in the sweetest part of my memories. But I never truly found my taste until recently when I whipped out some classic Metallica and Megadeth from my dads collection and was swept off my feet. I felt like I knew myself, and I know that I will never stop loving metal. I dont know why the early teens are so instrumental to musical taste, but know that for me Ive always really liked the same music, just couldnt really pin in down. Just play me some classic rock and Ill be good._________As we noted last week, our Student Opinion question, Is Student Debt Worth It?, was suggested by a teenage reader. While nearly all students agreed that going to college was worth taking out loans to pay for it, they had different ideas about how much and for which kind of schools.Aubrey Ella Hyldahl from Wilmington, N.C., thinks all students should consider cost when making decisions about college:College is a unique experience, and with that comes unique needs. I am a sophomore and have recently started looking and touring colleges to get a feel for what I want in a school and learn more about what I need to do to get there. Over the summer, I looked at Davidson College, a small, private, liberal arts college. I completely fell in love with the school and everything it had to offer. It seemed like the perfect place for me, except for the hefty price tag that comes with it.Around the same time, I toured UNC-Chapel Hill. Unlike Davidson, it is a huge school, which is something Im not sure I want. However, the quality of education I would receive would be excellent at this state school that is tens of thousands of dollars cheaper.Initially after these two visits, Davidson was my favorite followed closely by UNC. I thought that I could handle the immense debt that would come with it, because I was inclined to follow my heart. However, after thinking about it more, UNC soon started to encroach on Davidsons #1 spot. The reason for this is simple; I dont want to lock myself into a major that is more lucrative than something I love to do, just to pay off my loans for a school that offers a similar education to many cheaper public schools.This is not to say I wont apply to Davidson, but cost and debt should 100% be factored into the decision of which college to go to, especially if you cant see yourself in a highly lucrative career.Lauren Kroell from Mamaroneck, N.Y., is considering going abroad to avoid the high tuitions in the United States:As a current high school senior applying to college, I am well aware of the fact that depending on the college I may attend, paying off debts in the future is a likely outcome. I feel that now more than ever, at least from what Ive personally observed, both parents and children are much more hands-on with the process, consistently weighing the pros and the cons. My family has taken the question of finances more seriously than any other topic regarding the admissions process, and it will be a driving factor for the school I choose. Especially because my family and I didnt grow up entirely in the United States — I was born in Australia, and have since lived in Singapore and Great Britain — until recently, we werent aware that we may have to pay a quarter of a million dollars for a bachelors degree (which both my mother and I find somewhat ridiculous in the first place), nor did my parents know they would have to save up from my birth in order for me to attend certain institutions in the U.S. that may potentially cost more. Right now, Im looking at colleges in Canada partially because my Canadian citizenship makes the costs much less expensive. I have kept in mind throughout this process that realistically, wherever I may end up — even if it isnt my dream school — not only is it going to be a fantastic institution where I will get an exemplary education, but Im also going to find a way to make it my home for the next four years, and a place I will truly enjoy and love.Kimberly Fetherston from New Jersey is taking into account how much graduate school will contribute to her student debt:As a prospective law student and someone who is applying to highly competitive colleges, Im still unsure. On one hand, I see debt at a more prestigious institution as an in to better jobs as more prestigious institutions carry more weight in job hunting for recent graduates. On the other hand, for those intending to pursue a post-secondary degree I think its better to go somewhere you will have less debt to pay off as grad school, medical school or law school are even more expensive and its better to save money in undergrad.Noah Q. Berg from Southwest-Central Wilmington, N.C., suggests considering special programs at state schools for a more affordable elite education:I think student debt is very much worth it. Without a college degree, it can be very hard to find a good paying job that does not require backbreaking labor. That being said, it is essential for students to factor in costs in their college choice. An honors college at a state school can provide as good an education as a highly ranked liberal arts college, even though the public university costs considerably less.Myrca A. from Rhode Island already knows that money will factor into her college choices:Student loans are a frightening thing to think about for most students, including myself. Based on this authors experience, I feel intimidated by the system because they basically crush you with all the interest rates and such. In all honesty, it has always been my dream to attend a prestigious college. A dream that seems unattainable because of the schools cost nowadays. I come from a working-class family so paying off such high debts would prove a challenge. In order to relieve the strain that debts may place on my family, I would choose a school based on its affordability. After all, the success of a student does not necessarily depend on the school they attend. Ambition is what determines success, in my opinion. Ultimately I would like to choose my career based on my interest but a high-paying job will definitely be appealing to me because I will need to pay all my loans. Yes, student debt is a problem in the United States but apparently, it is merely a consequence of acquiring an education.Brandon Brodwater from Wilmington, N.C., says an honest conversation around finances can help students make smart decisions:Both of my parents came from extremely low income households. Money was always tight, so they were both completely on their own as far as paying for college. Even a small state school or community college was expensive. Both of them were in the first generation of their families that achieved a higher education, and had zero knowledge or assistance in process and payment. The only thing that they both had was drive. Today, they are both Ivy League graduates with no debt between them. Through hard work and focus, they were able to receive an education and pay off their loans. I have complete respect for them.Now that my bias is out of the way, I believe that student debts are worth every penny. A college education opens an unlimited amount of doors for the future, and with hard work and dedication, can pay for itself. Now, that being said, I also believe that many students are misinformed about what going to college entails. As Michael Arceneaux said, after taking out thousands of dollars in loans, no one mentions just how expensive and soul-crushing the debt will be. This is where a better pre-college education is necessary. I believe that it is important to be realistic about college with high school students, as opposed to only discussing its benefits. Teenagers need to be informed of the debt they will most likely accrue, and helped to plan school choices accordingly. If we emphasize smart financial decisions, people like Michael will have better debt situations. Sadie Gaffin from Providence, R.I., believes the government should do something about student debt:I have always known that going to college would be expensive, but this article really reinforced everything that every adult has ever told me about the cost. When I was younger, I really wanted to go to NYU and become a pediatrician, however I recently came to the realization that NYU is one of the most expensive colleges in the United States, so I have taken it off my list. I also still want to be a doctor, but my mind is not as set on being a pediatrician as it once was. That being said, I do not have a specific dream school because there are so many schools that have programs that will aid me in becoming the doctor I want to be, so I do not need to be narrow-minded about a school just because it is one that everyone knows the name of. The school I go to will be a good school and will not put me in too much debt because I do not want to owe the bank for the rest of my money. I might take out some loans but as little as possible. I do believe student debt is a problem in the United States and it has gotten increasingly higher over the past few years. I do not want to take part in it and I hope that the government gets a grip on it. There are quite a few countries around the world where they offer their citizens free, or close to free college. Education is extremely important no matter where one lives, so I hope the United States can realize this and make it more affordable so that all students can have access.And Anna Cross from Wilmington, N.C., summed up a lot of students anxiety with this thoughtful and humorous comment:I have no idea what to do about my future student loans. In high school, its drilled into you that a fancy college and a high degree is your ticket to a happy, successful life. Just rack up the debt, kids, youll pay it off with your neurosurgeons salary. But what they dont tell us is that most student loan providers give you only six months after you graduate to get a job and start paying your dues, and its awfully hard to set up your life and start making bank in about 26 weeks. This means that hopeful young adults in lower to average income families are stuck in a pit of debt they cant climb out of, weighed down by paying off loans when its time to start saving money for their own lives. Here comes the stories of living off of ramen and sleeping in your parents basement; students dont have the cash to pay their credit card bills, pay rent, or properly feed themselves. And according to recent statistics, the costs of tuition are only going up.My class and I will be graduating in 2020, the election year. I suppose my only hope now rests upon Oprah for a change in the education system. Perhaps Ill wait a year before going to college, just until the legislation passes through._________Sports fans chimed in with their favorite moments of the 2018 Winter Olympics so far.Alexis Lariviere from Hoggard High School was inspired by the youngest gold medal winners:The Olympics is an anticipated event that so many people enjoy to watch, me being one of them. My family and I enjoy watching the Winter and the Summer Olympics together. Most of the time the Olympics dont impact me much, but this year the games have actually been very inspiring to young athletes all around the world.So many young kids have taken home medals this year in the Winter Olympics. It is very inspiring knowing that someone still in high school (or just out of high school) has the potential to win something as big as the Olympics. This shows that no matter how young you are, if you really try for something it will happen. This statement relates to the article about Mikaela Shiffrin because when she first competed in the Olympic Games, she went home in 5th place. Mikaela wasnt happy with her score so she kept practicing until she came back to the Olympic Games and won first place. Just a little hard work and determination changed her life.And Josh Failla from Wilmington, N.C., was especially impressed by Red Gerard:The Olympics, either winter or summer, is my favorite sporting event. The only problem that I have with it is that we have to wait every 2 years to be able to watch the incredible athletes from around the world perform on the highest level. The competition is not the only thing that I love about the Olympics. I love how it is the perfect stage for all countries to put away their differences and to come together to celebrate. I also learn about sports that I have never heard of, and every year I learn something new. I never realized how tough and dangerous a sport like skeleton is. It may just look like they are not doing anything, but it takes tremendous control to keep the sled on the track.The most mesmerizing moment for me in this years Olympics is Red Gerard, the 17 year old US snowboarder that won gold in the slopestyle event. He is the youngest male Olympic snowboarding champion ever. It is hard to imagine how a kid only a year older than me is able to win the gold on the worlds biggest stage. He is half the age of some of his teammates, and it gives me motivation in my life that just because you are young doesnt mean that you cant make a difference. I cant wait to see what else the Olympics has in store.But Luke Lamporte from Wilmington, N.C., was motivated by watching veteran athletes:My favorite moment of the Winter Olympics this year was seeing Shaun White make his return to snowboarding and take home the gold. Ive always been a huge Shaun White fan and used to love watching him pull off near impossible tricks on the halfpipe and take home gold after gold after gold at such a young age. Now seeing him come back and do it at a much older age just shows the true talent that this man has. Im inspired by his drive to get better and his passion for the sport and one day hope to have the same for whatever I do in my life.Several students found joy in the way the Olympics have brought together a seemingly divided world. Abby Tank from Wilmington, N.C., said it best:I absolutely love the Olympics — both winter and summer. I always look forward to cheering on Team USA, and this year, its been great to see younger athletes dominate at the Winter Olympics such as Red Gerard and Chloe Kim. You can find me sitting on my couch, squeezing the life out of a pillow when Team USA is competing in any event. Throughout the day, Im constantly checking for updates on the Olympics, whether its the current medal count, results, etc. But whats even better to see this year than Team USA is South Korea and North Korea united under one flag. Its amazing to see what effect sports has on the world. The Olympics are respected and revered around the world, and this year have caused the seclusive North Korea to join with its southern counterpart. This Korean team represents peace, and I find myself rooting for their team just as much as Team USA. I appreciate how far theyve gone to being a unified team, especially by making a joint womens hockey team. Even though they havent won a single game this Olympics, the fact that theyre playing together is the best win of all. We can only hope that this unity and peace that are being experienced in the games will translate into a much greater picture in the future._________Students gave insightful responses to our Student Opinion question: Do You Think Porn Influences the Way Teenagers Think About Sex?Luke  from Wilmington, N.C., thinks it does in many ways:I, as a teenager, definitely believe that pornography has and will continue to corrupt the impressionable minds of us teenagers. I mean think about it, porn is basically everywhere now. All it takes is one click to find it on your phone. There are entire magazines dedicated to it. Movies all about it. Music that essentially talks about it. Its almost like there is no escaping it. Porn has consumed our world one way or another whether we like it or not. Porn affects the way people think even without them knowing it. The porn industry makes women look like toys and discourages their pride. I believe sex is a sacred thing created for humans to reproduce and should not be put out on the internet for the entire world to see. It also changes the way men see sex. Young kids have access to porn and if they continually watch it then when it comes time for them to have sex they will think Wow this isnt like the videos at all, maybe Ill just go home and use my hand thats a lot better. It also corrupts the way that men view women. After watching too much porn, a man starts to find women attractive based on what their body looks like, completely ignoring her personality. I believe porn is degrading to not only women but men too. It gives young kids a false sense of what a man should look like if he wants girls to find him attractive. This could lead to a feeling of depression because maybe the boy doesnt fit the perfect man mold. This should not be acceptable under any circumstances.Denislav from Wilmington, N.C., believes pornography has taken the place of sex education:First, to comment on the elephant in the room, it is clearly obvious that pornography has a huge impact on society — with virtually almost all adults and teenagers being exposed to it at some point in their lives. Porn often times takes the place of traditional standardized sexual education, which frankly, is quite a flop in todays system. Modern day sex-ed classes teach more about abstinence and the variety of STDs accompanied by sex than focusing on how to use proper protection to avoid any diseases or dangers when engaging in sexual intercourse. This kind of education does not help students to actually learn how to keep themselves safe and not do anything stupid — its just a mere warning telling people to not do it whilst giving no details on safety.Furthermore, regarding the impact that pornography has on masculinity, femininity and relationships, I would have to say that it completely takes out the intimate aspect of the act altogether. Todays society believes that sex is just a physical act, and nothing more. Much of the music we hear glorifies the action of intercourse and the female physique but never focuses on the relationship aspect of the subject. These messages are harmful because they provoke a message of doing it just to do it (sounds stupid, I know) which doesnt help people make entirely smart choices.Tucker  from Wilmington, N.C., suggested that health classes teach about healthy relationships, not just body parts:OK, lets all take a breather before I start writing. In a way, it is just in human nature to explore what we dont understand, and sadly sex can fall into that category. Yes, porn is bad when exposed to society, but people learn better from experience. The issue is that nobody wants to teach us about the issue. We dont need to learn all about the urethra and tubular organs, but rather a brief explanation as to how it works. I find that all media has shaped not only the idea of sex but love in general. Face it, you cant just fall in love in a session of detention or show up in your red Porsche while you swipe a girl off her heels. The real world takes time to learn what love is, believe me, Im still learning. If we can just teach people how a healthy relationship works without having them surf the private web, if we can have more talks to teach youth before theyre sent off holding hands, just maybe we can be rid of these concepts about what love looks like from a computer screen.Bradly from Wilmington, N.C., proposed banning pornography to solve this problem:The topic of unrealistic and overstimulating sex also referred to as porn is a disgusting site that brainwashes anyone watching it into its lies and deceit. I dont believe the vocabulary and or content of pornography has any purpose being on the free ranged internet, let alone in the minds of unpredictable teenagers. I just dont understand why we are even debating the fact that porn influences the way teenagers think about sex, of course it does. When one is exposed to graphic material portraying a dominant man overtaking a weak female, that is exactly how teenagers will perceive sex to be in real life. In real life, women are portrayed as strong, dominant figures, not sex idols. The only solution to changing the way teenagers think about sex now is by destroying ponography and its content permanently. Doing this will not only save the present, but the many more to come in the future.But Zac from Wilmington, N.C., disagreed with that approach:Our nations sex education is appalling. The fact that only half of our fifty states mandate sexual education is absolutely insane. Its no wonder teens go to porn at such an early age. Our own schools completely shut down any talk of sex during the most important time of development in adolescence. Teens everywhere are going through so many changes they dont understand and are beginning to look at the world in different ways and our response is silence. It should be no shock to anyone that so many people were first exposed to sex through porn. Im in no way justifying minors watching porn, but for a lot of people, its all theyve got. Of course porn is impressionable on someone who has no other experience with sex. The problem is when teens only have porn. When no one is there to let them know the possible dangers of sex. When teens dont understand that its bigger than just the act itself. Sex education is vital in the upbringing of any child. I think we should move away from blaming porn itself and instead see that the problem may lie within our societies education systems._________For our Picture Prompt, Problem, we asked students what they thought the above image was trying to say and how it connected to current events. Heres what they came up with:Tanya Bolick from North Carolina wrote:When I first looked at the image I was confused. After a few minutes of looking I finally came to the realizations that the cloth represents how we like to cover up our problems, and leave them for later. But the thing is, no matter how hard we try to cover up our problems, the cloth is always too thin. You can never fully cover it up or remove the problem from your life until you face it head on. If you keep putting it off you might let the problem get too big. You could leave it until it is so bad that there is no longer anything you can do about it.The article shows that Puerto Rico is a perfect example of this. The island is a prime hurricane location and feels the pain of it every day. After Hurricane Maria the island was greatly damaged. Due to its lack of funding, Puerto Ricos electrical system was in bad shape and the island experienced many blackouts. After Hurricane Maria it is worse than it ever was before. Due to the lack of power during and after the hurricane the water treatment plants have not been able to do their job. Many people are still being advised to boil their water before drinking. All these problems could have been mostly avoided if we had dealt with these problems in advance, or at least as they came; the situation would not be this bad.Lauren Thornton from Providence, R.I., interpreted it this way:I think this image is shedding a light on how things in todays society that were overlooked are now being exposed and spoken out against. From protesting against deporting Dreamers to YouTubers basically boycotting a makeup brand because they arent inclusive to all shades of skin, problems in our society are no longer just an at home discussion. Problems in our society are no longer being tolerated because there are so many people who have the platforms to be able to condemn them. Its 2018 now, and we have the power to push for progress. I think this image is a sign of progress and it encourages people to speak out.Clay Krupp from N.C. said succinctly:I believe that this picture is used as a symbol that we are running out of solutions for our current event problems. The covered part symbolizes problems that have solutions or have been solved. The uncovered part symbolizes the unsolved problems in our society.And Ellie Hannum from Wilmington, N.C., connected it to the recent school shooting in Parkland, Fla.:Often times the simplest art is also the most impactful. At first glance, the image portrays the fact that humans tend to deal with problems by covering them up, therefore not actually fixing the issue. The more I gazed at the image, I also noticed that the thin bandage only wraps around part of the word. This could be interpreted as only fixing or addressing part of a problem. The uncovered part of the problem is left unsolved. This image reminds me of the recent shooting that occurred in Florida this past week. To call the increasing number of school shootings in America a problem is a huge understatement. It is a nightmare that does not end for families all over the country and that our government is struggling to find a solution to. It is as if our country has a broken bone and we are trying to heal by putting a band-aid on it. We might be covering the surface of the wound but the problem still exists beneath the surface. We cant expect to solve our countrys problems with simple solutions._________Our Student Opinion question Should Technology in Sports Be Limited? drew in responses from both sides of the debate.Josh Failla from Wilmington, N.C., gave this compelling argument in support of technology:Watching the Olympics for the past week has showed how the difference between 1st and 10th place is sometimes is only 1 second. It seems that the human body has begun to peak in its ability to go faster. According to the data in the article, around 2005, times began to plateau. Times were becoming very similar, and it took a full decade to beat the speed skater record by Denis Yuskov. This shows me that technology needs to be a key part in not only speed skating, but other sports around the world.A competitors goal is to always become better, faster, and stronger. It seems nowadays that the only way athletes can improve is with the implication of technology. Technology will also influence how many people will watch the sport. Viewers dont want to see the same speed every year, and with the implication of technology, athletes will performing better than ever, giving more awareness to the sport. If the only way that athletes can improve is through technology, then so be it. I just dont want it to come down to robots playing the sports.Brennan Litzinger from Wilmington, N.C., agreed and gave an example:One sport that I can think of that has definitely increased its technology over the years would be football. Back when football was just becoming a sport the players only had leather helmets, I mean you might as well wear paper on your head. As a football player myself I really understand the need for technology in football. As much as we try to avoid them, head to head collisions on the field are a real thing. I believe technology has really taken a big role in preventing concussions and other injuries in football, and it has definitely changed the game.Nick Hargrove from Wilmington, N.C., offered a counterpoint:The Peak Olympics have arrived as seen in the graphs depicted in the interactive article. Up until around 1980 scores in the 800 meter run, high jump, and shot put all improved, until the scores plateaued in 1980. In another graph shown in the interactive article, you can see the male height in the United States showed a significant increase up until 1950. There the heights plateaued, even slightly decreasing in the 90s. While technology may advance in the future the human performance of the Olympics has reached its peak.I do not think athletes should be allowed to use technology to improve their performance. Once a technology becomes crucial in order to compete at a high level, it then provides wealthier countries an advantage. Once technology provides a substantial advantage, the sport no longer is entirely about human performance and becomes about a factor that does not encourage things like dedication to the sport. Not only does it provide a disadvantage to others currently competing, it diminishes the scores and legacy of past athletes. They need to provide stricter guidelines that stay constant throughout the years so that an scores can be compared to past scores. While some may argue technology improves scores these results are inflated by something that people in the past didnt have access to. There comes to a point where technology will be providing advantages at a level such as PEDs which are currently disallowed throughout sports.Hugo Veliz from Providence, R.I., also thought technology should be restricted:Personally, I believe that technology should be used in sports but only to improve the fairness of the game. For example, in the World Cup, they should improve the goal-line techno to truly find out if the soccer ball fully went over the line. The limits of technology in sports should be like athletes using the technology to enhance their skills to outdo their opponent unfairly.Kasey Kiser from Wilmington, N.C., came up with a creative solution to bolster athleticism without new technology:I believe we have reached Peak Olympics, especially in some events. Take for example skeleton or most timed events. Ive witnessed countless runs within milliseconds of each other, making me question the appeal for that sport. Personally, Im attracted to events where the competition doesnt come in nitpicky ways, like how well you hugged a turn. I tend to watch the events like hockey, snowboarding, or other events where more grit, emotion, and even flaws are visible to the average viewer. Id rather see raw athletic ability than reproducible clones of the sport. The plateau of times due to human limits could definitely be boosted by new technology. But like before, if you hand the entire human race a task and give them decades to refine and perfect their skills, it will eventually reach a threshold. Adding new tech may stir up the competition for a few Olympic games, but once it becomes mainstream, well eventually run into the same issue.My solution for the Olympics introduces new modifications, or even new events entirely. Why watch the same thing every 4 years when new obstacles and challenges can be created to entertain the audience? Many might argue that changing the games will ruin the careers of athletes and trainers, along with the integrity of the sport. However, the Olympics and any competition for that matter are in the business of entertainment. If you cant keep viewers glued to the screen, in awe of amazing competition, its time to switch it up.But Derek Han from San Jose, Calif., thinks technology will allow humans to surpass what the authors call Peak Olympics:I think that humans are not at their peak in many sports. The authors are arguing that because the difference in performance times are becoming smaller and smaller, the athletes seem to be reaching a peak performance level at which they will no longer be able to improve, or will only be able to improve through improved technology. I completely disagree with this for multiple reasons. From what Ive seen, athletes are getting more and more skilled. For my example, Ill use running. Specifically, the mile run. In 1855, the first recorded mile time record on a track was set, with a time of 4:28:00. Thats ridiculously slow for a professional. Even my friend can run a mile faster than that. By 1886, the mile record had dropped to 4:12:75. From 1945 to 1954, the record had been 4:01:40, until it was broken with a time of 3:59:40. From 1855 to 1954, the record has gone down by 29 seconds. Now, the record stands at 3:43:13. In 64 years, the record has gone down by 16 seconds. Between 1954 and 2018, the record has gone down by an average of four seconds per year, while between 1855 and 1954, the record has gone down by an average of 3.41 seconds. The athletes in this case are actually improving more quickly as time goes by, rather than plateauing. With the new technology that is being made, athletes arent getting an unfair advantage to boost their performance, athletes are actually improving the same amount as they did back in the 1850s, when track spikes were first being produced._________Our Picture Prompt for Valentines Day brought out both the lovers and the cynics.Monalene Delo from Wilmington, N.C., likes what this holiday stands for:I love Valentines Day! It is the one day of the year where love, joy and cheer is spread and the focus is simply love. Often times in this world where there is so much hate, we need a reminder to be good to one another. To spread love. This holiday provides a time to support others in ways that they normally wouldnt. For instance at school students might spend a day making valentines for friends and family. Just by making a simple card people on the receiving end feel appreciated and loved. Significant others may even go out of their way to make sure their spouses have a wonderful day, by buying candies, cards and stuffed animals. This day promotes friendships and joy. It encourages you to do something nice for others, like making a Valentines Day card for someone in a nursing home that may have lost their loved one. I think it is a beautiful reminder to be good to one another. Valentines Day is not about the materialistic things. On Valentines Day I saw big bears, candies and flowers lining the halls as gifts to their girlfriends, how happy it made them. Heres the thing, flowers will die and the chocolate candies will get eaten, then what is left? When there is no more presents being given, no more cards to show how much you care. Will we still spread love and kindness? I hope that we continue to even after the day ends.Timosha Fesenko from Rhode Island does not:I remember Valentines Day before high school when kids were more interested in getting their sugar fix then finding a Valentine. Now? I would only take part in Valentines Day if I were in a relationship. If not, I dont believe anything Id do would be very genuine, which is the main reason Im not a fan of Valentines Day. If you love someone, or want to ask them out on a date or something, why wait until Valentines Day? Most others are doing the exact same thing, so why not do it when no one else is?Jeraldyn Ramirez from Rhode Island thinks Valentines Day is about more than just romantic love:Valentines Day is another excuse to dress up and eat dinner. I love Valentines Day because it is a day for you to eat as much candy without being judged, although I eat it no matter what day it is. I dont hate this holiday because it is just another day to show your love and appreciation for the people around you. I think the reason why many people dislike the holiday is because of the assumption that you need to be in a relationship to enjoy it. This is not the case, however, because it is just a day about love. To prove this assumption wrong, we can look at the name for Valentines Day in Spanish that some use to refer to it, being Dia de la Amistad. This means the day of friendship. I apply this definition to celebrate the holiday. I make plans with my friends and go out for a meal.Kerly3D from YC CLIP agreed:I think Valentines Day is a perfect day to show others how much you love them. It is not necessary to be in a relationship because you can show love to your parents, family or friends. Most people confuse this day with giving gifts and spending a lot of money, but it is not about that, a person can make happy another by sharing, treating and giving love and happiness on this day. I know some people do not agree with me, and maybe they think that we can share and give love every day, but I think it is good, at least one day, remembering with more emphasis the meaning of the love.But Marcelo3D from YC CLIP said it had become too commercialized:In my opinion, Valentines Day is an amazing day for the couples and for friends but I do not really care so much this day. I think that this day is a commercial day, created so that couples spend money on gifts but is not a bad day because in this day, many couples forgot their problems for one day and they concentrate on having the best day. Another thing that you can do in this day is spend time with your family and this is a good point for this day because not every day we can see all of our familiars and this is a good day to see them.Maddie Leber from Wilmington, N.C., noticed her feelings have changed as she has gotten older:I always remember loving Valentines Day when I was little, but lets be honest. It was a day where everyone in your class would give you cards and candy and you barely did any work, but over the years Ive grown to resent it. Now its just another day where people are walking around holding bears with hearts and chocolate prices sky-rocket. I had always believed Valentines Day was a day only for people in love, and if you didnt have a significant other then you werent included. Ive now realized its just a day to let people know you love them. This is the first year Ive celebrated Valentines Day since those days in elementary school where I would give out those little cards with puppies on them that came with stickers. This year Ive made cards for everyone in my family and plan on buying candy for my friends, but not until tomorrow, because then its half-off.And Gloria3D from YC CLIP believes love should be celebrated all year round:Valentines Day is s day for the commercial business because if you see the season in February after Christmas the sales are low. Them the commerce need to activate and what better way than create a day for in love. For you demonstrate to someone that you have any love feeling for this person not necessary have that it is this day every day, every moment you can do it. Personally I every day I say my daughters, my husband and other person during the day I love you, not necessary with words almost with attitudes. I give them a hug, biscuits, hot chocolate or simply you say them something beautiful. You can use this way. You do not want the commercial day for you say, you are important for me.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 12, 2018
A new website from Porter Road, a chef-owned butcher shop in Nashville, sells meat from small farms, delivered fresh, nationally and within two days. James Peisker and Chris Carter opened their store in 2011 after having difficulty finding meat that satisfied them for their fledgling catering company. The meats and poultry are pasture-raised by farmers who do not use antibiotics or hormones on the animals. The Porter Road partners do their own butchering, dry-age meats for 14 days, and offer a range of cuts, though some are limited and wait-listed. Prices and shipping charges are moderate. My Kansas City bone-in strip loin, a little more than a pound, was $21, for example: Porter Road, porterroad.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Cook: Meat and Poultry  Just a Click Away.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By KELLY VIRELLAFEB. 14, 2018
The Reader Center is one way we in the newsroom are trying to connect with you, by highlighting your perspectives and experiences and offering insight into how we work.Each days New York Times is voluminous. Where does one begin?An interesting discussion ensued last week when a reader in our Reader Center Facebook group described her preferred order for reading The Times and asked others to describe theirs.Some shared their Times reading routines and explained how social media or the digital versions of The Times influence them.One explained why she prefers her specific order and what it says about her.Tom Jolly, a Times editor who oversees production of the newspaper, joined the conversation to talk about the logic editors use to assemble the print edition. Editors aim for consistency, he said.AdvertisementYou should be able to count on the big news being on the front page and editorials on the last two pages of the first section and so on, he wrote. If you know where to find the stuff that interests you most, you can create your own reading order.AdvertisementBut our colleagues who design the newspaper dont always put stories in their assigned sections, like International or Sports. When a news event generates individual stories for multiple sections, the designers sometimes group those stories in a collection to publish them side-by-side.When the stock market turmoil occurred in recent days and stories came in from our Washington, National, Business and Upshot desks, we put them alltogether in one place in the paper, rather than in the sections that generated the stories, as used to be our practice, Tom wrote.Sometimes this gets tricky, as the Olympics illustrate, he added. Clearly, many belong in Sports but some would feel odd there, so were in the process right now of trying to place them in the most logical way.In the comments section, tell us the order in which you like to read the paper.Applications for our Facebook group are currently closed, but check back at nytimes.com/readers for other opportunities to get involved.Follow the Reader Center on Twitter: @ReaderCenter.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 30, 2018
Everything you might need to know about chocolate, from bean to bar, as they say, will be covered during an all-day conference at the Institute of Culinary Education. It will be the first time the school has drawn on its many resources — most notably its chocolate lab, run by the schools creative director, Michael Laiskonis — to offer such a presentation for professionals and amateurs. Talks, demonstrations, panel discussions and tastings will be held, with experts like the chefs Bill Yosses and Marc Aumont, and historians including Maricel Presilla and Alexandra Leaf participating: Roots of Cacao, Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., $100 per person plus fee, $60 for students plus fee, eventbrite.com, Institute of Culinary Education, 225 Liberty Street (West Street), ice.edu.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Temper: Chocolate Rules the Day, From Talks to Tastings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 30, 2018
Add macadamia to the growing parade of vegan nut milks. A line of four is showing up in dairy cases and online. The milk is pressed from raw nuts grown on a family farm in the Northern Rivers region of New South Wales, Australia, the macadamias native habitat. The farm cultivates the trees in a manner said to promote healthy soil. There are four varieties, all nicely creamy: original (lightly sweetened), unsweetened and unsweetened vanilla (both pleasant), and latte de barista (designed for coffee shops, fairly sweet, foams well): Milkadamia, $4 to $5.50 per quart, depending on the store, milkadamia.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Pour: Macadamia Nut Milk By Way of Australia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 30, 2018
Sufia Hossain, a native of Bangladesh who worked in fashion in New York, turned a career corner and decided to make hot sauces. Months of experimentation led to her company, Silly Chilly Hotsauce, which makes sauces in Englewood and Bloomfield, N.J., from chiles grown at Rutgers Universitys farm in New Brunswick, among other sources. Each of the three sauces is agreeably thick: mellow mustard-yellow mango and sweet pepper; musky, smoky mahogany serrano and chipotle; and weaponized neon-orange habanero. Ms. Hossain also teaches classes in making hot sauces, $45 per person for 90 minutes in Manhattan and Brooklyn: Silly Chilly Hotsauce, $10.95 for five ounces, sillychillyhotsauce.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Slather: Making Hot Sauce A Fashionable Line.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By KIM SEVERSONJAN. 29, 2018
Medieval Times, the dinner theater with a faux jousting tournament, draws an estimated 2.5 million customers each year. Heres how the food operation breaks down by the numbers:Meals served on a Saturday night, counting all nine Medieval Times locationsGallons of tomato soup served each yearPounds of russet potatoes roasted each yearPounds of chicken bought each yearRoasting temperature for the chickensGallons of free Pepsi consumed by guests each yearPercentage of the 2,000 employees who work in the kitchenFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Medieval Math.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 20, 2018
For the first time, the chef Alfred Portale has devised a special bar menu at Gotham Bar and Grill. Its a lineup of nibbles like salt-cod croquettes, jewel-like deviled eggs with trout roe, tuna tacos that are a riff on his tartare, and a retro French onion dip (above) for house-made potato chips. His dip recipe makes nearly three cups, enough perhaps for your Oscars party. Dust two cups of finely diced Spanish onion with a teaspoon of salt and sauté in four tablespoons of canola oil until nicely caramelized. Stir in half a teaspoon minced garlic. Set aside in a bowl to cool, then mix in two cups sour cream, two teaspoons salt, a tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, half a tablespoon sugar and two teaspoons lemon juice. Transfer to a serving dish and scatter with minced chives: Kennebec potato chips with French onion dip, $8, At the Bar, Gotham Bar and Grill, 12 East 12th Street (University Place), 212-620-4020, gothambarandgrill.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Whet: Retro Dip and Chips And Top-Shelf Snacks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JULIE CRESWELL and TIFFANY HSUFEB. 23, 2018
Within hours of announcing its decision to end a credit card relationship with the National Rifle Association, the First National Bank of Omaha found itself thrust into the center of the resurgent national gun debate.Its Twitter and Facebook pages were flooded with comments. Some customers applauded the 160-year-old banks decision. Others said they would take their business elsewhere.In the aftermath of the deadly school shooting in Florida last week, businesses were making the same financial and moral calculus, quickly discovering that there is no neutral ground. As pressure mounted across various social media platforms on Friday, a number of corporations, including several car-rental companies, MetLife insurance, Symantec security software and the car pricing and information site TrueCar, abruptly announced plans to cut ties with the organization.The actions continued on Saturday. Delta and United Airlines both issued statements saying they were ending discount programs with the N.R.A. and would ask the association to remove their information from its website.AdvertisementOver the last couple of years, social media has become the preferred vehicle for the rise of consumer activism, turning the everyday purchase of dresses or shoes or, now, renting a car or buying insurance, into a form of protest or demonstration of ideology.AdvertisementMetLife didnt shoot anyone, but I just cant pay them, Clark Bacon, a research assistant at a childrens hospital, said in an interview Friday morning, after posting about his frustration on the companys Facebook page. He had pledged to cancel his MetLife auto and home insurance package, for which he spends nearly $9,000 a year, after learning that the company offered N.R.A. members pre-negotiated discounts.For companies like MetLife that are caught in the middle of these angry social media storms, actions tied to divisive social issues can be a lose-lose proposition. A year ago, Nordstrom first faced calls for a consumer boycott because it carried the Ivanka Trump line of clothing. But it quickly drew another round of boycott cries from the other side of the ideological spectrum when it quietly stopped selling her products.Marketing experts say its difficult to determine whether calls for boycotts can truly have an impact on a companys business. Rather, they say, once-angry customers either forget or move on to the next event or debate.Memories fade. The intensity of the feelings that people have on this subject right now will feel different one month or five months from now, said Maurice Schweitzer, a professor of operations, information and decisions at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.In the aftermath of nearly all of the mass shootings in the United States, there have been attempts to pressure lawmakers and companies that manufacture or sell guns to change. After the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012, both the Californias state pension fund and the California teachers pension fund divested their stakes in gun manufacturers.And after a gunman used an accessory called a bump stock in a mass shooting in Las Vegas last October, two retailers, Walmart and the outdoors store Cabelas, removed the products from their websites.But in the days since the Florida school shooting, the push for boycotts and meaningful change has mobilized faster than with previous mass shootings. Professor Schweitzer noted that reflected the fact that the survivors are teenagers who are well versed in the usage and power of social media.AdvertisementOn Twitter, the hashtag #stopNRAmazon was a rallying cry aimed at pressuring Amazon to stop streaming content from NRATV, the gun groups online video channel. The effort quickly drew support from Hollywood as actors like Alyssa Milano, Denis OHare, Evan Handler and Misha Collins posted on social media in support of the campaign; several noted that Amazon prohibits the sale of firearms on its e-commerce site.Amazon did not respond to a request for comment.Leading retailers including Cabelas, Walmart and Bass Pro Shops also came under renewed boycott calls on Twitter for selling guns or sponsoring N.R.A. events. The retailers did not respond to emails seeking comment.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, in some cases, the rapid assembly on Twitter and Facebook may have resulted in a speedy response. In less than 24 hours, at least eight companies that had offered N.R.A. members discounts or special deals announced plans to separate or end affiliations with the organization, including Hertz, Enterprise and Avis Budget; SimpliSafe, which gave N.R.A. members two months of free home security monitoring; and North American and Allied Van Lines.North American and Allied Van Lines no longer have an affiliate relationship with the N.R.A. effective immediately, the company said in an emailed statement. We have asked them to remove our listing from their benefits site.Even companies that do not have ties to the N.R.A. nevertheless rushed to distance themselves from the group. Wyndham Hotels said in a statement that it ended its relationship with the trade group in late 2017. Best Western Hotels & Resorts tweeted to dozens of customers that it does not have an affiliation with and is not a corporate partner of the N.R.A.Earlier this week, lists of companies that were part of the N.R.A. membership program began circulating over Facebook and Twitter. A Change.org petition asked 25 companies, including North American Van Lines and the hearing aid company Starkey Hearing Technologies, to break their connection with the N.R.A. The petition had more than 1,100 signatures by midday Friday.With lists of companies circulating widely, Facebook users swarmed the profiles of Avis, MetLife and others, announcing their plans to end their patronage and switch to competitors.Rob Bradford, a designer who travels frequently, said Friday morning he would take the $600 he spends each year renting vehicles from Avis to competing rental companies if Avis did not disavow the N.R.A.I know that boycotts work, especially in the age of social media, he said. I will go out of my way to avoid businesses associated with that group even if that means spending more money.AdvertisementBy Friday afternoon, Avis Budget Group, which owns the car rental companies Avis and Budget, said it had decided to end its discount partnership with the N.R.A., effective on March 26, according to a representative.Late Thursday, the First National Bank of Omaha, which calls itself the largest privately owned bank holding company in the country, said that it would not renew its contract with the trade group to issue an N.R.A.-branded credit card.The card had been advertised as the official credit card of the N.R.A., and cardholders were offered a $40 credit with their first purchase.But the move drew strong, even extreme, reaction on the banks Facebook page.You are doing the right thing by dropping the NRA, one user wrote. They are a hate group with blood on their hands. Thank you for walking away from them.But the opposing viewpoint was evident as well. I discontinued my account with you last night for discontinuing the relationship with the NRA, another user wrote. I will encourage all NRA members and gun supporters to do the same. There are 100 million gun owners and 5 million NRA members. Good luck.A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 2018, on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Connection To N.R.A. Can Be Bad For Business.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLensBy Gareth SmitDowntown, on the sidewalk outside the Oscar de la Renta show during New York Fashion Week, one photographer stands out among the many clamoring to get a picture of the model Theodora Quinlivan, known as Teddy, as she leaves the show. Wearing a bright pink Julian David coat, the street-style photographer Phil Oh is beloved by the many fashion editors and models who stop to greet him as they leave the show.Mr. Oh has been working as the street-style photographer for Vogue.coms coverage of fashion weeks in New York, London, Paris and Milan for eight years. He was contacted by the magazine after the success of Streetpeeper, a street-style blog that he started in 2007. Four times a year, Mr. Oh spends a month standing outside fashion shows sometimes for eight hours a day — to capture guests as they arrive at or leave a show. Fashion usually exists in a bubble, he explains. These fashion shows are one of the few times when fashion and the real world intersect just for a little sidewalk on Sixth Avenue between the show venue and the models car.Gareth Smit is a South African documentary photographer and filmmaker based in New York.Follow @Gareth_smit and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Gareth Smit is also on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Advertisement
Tech Tip By                     
 J. D. BIERSDORFER
 
JAN. 30, 2018
Q. Im new to Instagram. Aside from the service suggesting Facebook friends who also have Instagram accounts, how do I find new people to follow?A. Like Twitter, LinkedIn and other networks, Instagram has a search function you can use to look for acquaintances other than those you already have on Facebook (which owns Instagram, hence the social synergy). Tap the magnifying glass in the Instagram tool bar to go to the search page, where you can seek out specific people, hashtags or places that match your keywords. The search page also lists so-called top accounts in the results.Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Hashtags are labels prefaced with a # character (as in #FlyEaglesFly, for example). Users add them to captions as a simple way to whittle down broader categories into narrower subjects. An Instagram hashtag page lists all the posts using the same tag.Just as you can add certain people and businesses to the list of accounts you follow, you can now follow particular hashtags, a feature Instagram introduced late last year. When you are browsing your feed and see a hashtag that piques your interest, tap it. Instagram takes you to a page showing posts using that hashtag and if you like what you see, tap the blue Follow button at the top. New posts that contain that hashtag will then appear in your feed.Later, if you lose interest in the topic, you can remove it from your feed. Tap the hashtag to return to its page and tap the Following button at the top to stop tracking the tag.Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Following Along on Instagram.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 12, 2018
When it comes to barrel-aging spirits, the final product will be affected by whatever was previously sequestered in the barrel. Thus you have some Scotch makers using old sherry or bourbon casks. In Brooklyn, Allen Katzs New York Distilling Company has started giving some of his Ragtime Rye, a whiskey he introduced last fall, a sojourn in barrels that held applejack. His inspiration was George Washington, a distiller of rye who also had a penchant for applejack. The new 100-proof whiskey — for sipping neat or on ice — has a honeyed, spicy aroma and a warm flavor with hints of leather, baked bread and cinnamon: Applejack Barrel Finished Ragtime Rye Whiskey, $42 at Bottlerocket Wine & Spirit, 5 West 19th Street (Fifth Avenue), 212-929-2323, bottlerocket.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Sip: To Spice Up a Rye,  A Hint of Applejack.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By FLORENCE FABRICANTFEB. 13, 2018
Graydon Carter and Jeff Klein, the owners of the Monkey Bar in Midtown Manhattan since 2009, have installed David Tanis as the new chef at the venerable restaurant and watering hole.Mr. Tanis, who was the head chef at Chez Panisse in Berkeley, Calif., for many years and was also the chef at Cafe Escalera in Santa Fe, N.M., is a frequent contributor to The New York Times, where he writes the City Kitchen column for the Food section. He is also the author of four cookbooks.Mr. Klein said they expected refinement and subtle changes at the Monkey Bar with Mr. Tanis in charge. The restaurant now has a rather conventional menu featuring staples like shrimp cocktail, steak tartare, wedge salad, rack of lamb and a burger.Mr. Tanis said his food will be straightforward and simply presented. He added that the menu would evolve, but would veer away from steakhouse fare and emphasize more salads, fish and vegetables with a seasonal focus using sustainable ingredients.Mr. Taniss chef de cuisine is Mason Lindahl.The Monkey Bar, 60 East 54th Street (Madison Avenue), Midtown East, 212-288-1010, monkeybarnewyork.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:Re Buying Online Influence From a Shadowy Market (front page, Jan. 28): The proliferation of fake social media followers has been fueled by the belief that they help businesses. To the contrary, businesses paying for followers, and giving endorsement deals to people with many fake followers, are wasting their money.Having spent years working with businesses of all sizes to harness social media, Ive found consistently that there is no actual business value in a number of followers. An inflated follower count does not lead to greater sales. It does not increase visits to websites or sign-ups for e-newsletters. It doesnt build relationships between brands and potential buyers.Businesses are much better served using social media to connect directly with consumers. Exchanging tweets, direct messages and Facebook comments with users has real value — not only helping win them over, but also showing onlookers that the company genuinely wants to engage.Buyers are also becoming more savvy. Many online tools show how many of a companys followers are fake, and a large number is a big turnoff.JACK KOSAKOWSKI SCOTTSDALE, ARIZ.The writer is chief executive of Creation Agency, a marketing agency.AdvertisementBy AURELIEN BREEDENFEB. 2, 2018
As #MeToo takes hold in France, Mr. Ramadan, a world-renowned scholar of contemporary Islam, faces allegations of rape.PARIS — Tariq Ramadan, a prominent Swiss-born scholar of Islam, was charged in France with rape on Friday, based on accusations made against him four months ago by two women. He has denied the accusations as a smear.Mr. Ramadan, a 55-year-old theologian and philosopher, was placed under formal investigation on charges of rape and rape of a vulnerable person, according to a spokesman for the French judiciary.The spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity in line with department policy, said that Mr. Ramadan would be kept in custody while a judge decides on whether to grant him bail. The prosecution has requested that he remain under arrest.Mr. Ramadan is the author of several books on Islam and on the Western world, and is considered by some experts to offer a moderate, tolerant version of the faith. But critics, especially in France, say he is a demagogue who hides radical views behind a polished media persona.AdvertisementThe womens accusations have put a dent in his projected image as a pious family man. He has characterized them as part of an organized campaign of slander by his enemies.AdvertisementMr. Ramadan was taken into custody for questioning on Wednesday, when he answered a police summons in Paris. Now that a formal investigation has begun, Mr. Ramadans fate remains uncertain.In France, complex criminal cases are handled by special magistrates with broad investigative powers. Defendants placed under formal investigation will not automatically go to trial, as the magistrates can drop cases they believe show insufficient evidence.If Mr. Ramadan goes to trial and if he is convicted, he faces up to 15 years in prison on the charge of rape, and up to 20 years on the separate charge of rape of a vulnerable person. That charge was included because Mr. Ramadans second accuser is partly disabled, requiring her to walk with a crutch because of a car accident.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Ramadan was first accused in October, in the aftermath of the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse scandal, which led many Frenchwomen to report personal experiences of harassment or assault.Henda Ayari, a French author and activist, accused Mr. Ramadan in a Facebook post that month of having sexually assaulted her in a Paris hotel room in 2012. On the day she published the Facebook post, she filed a police complaint in her hometown, Rouen, in northern France.Ms. Ayari had already written about the assault in a 2016 book on how she had been drawn to Salafism, a radical Islamist movement, before breaking away from the ideology. But she had not identified the attacker as Mr. Ramadan.The second accuser, who has not been identified publicly, filed a complaint against Mr. Ramadan shortly after, accusing him of having raped and assaulted her in a hotel room in the central French city of Lyon in 2009.The woman, a 45-year-old convert to Islam, told French newspapers that she had corresponded with Mr. Ramadan on Facebook and met him in his hotel on the sidelines of a conference to discuss religion. When she went to his room, she said, she was raped and beaten.Both women said Mr. Ramadan had threatened them into silence.In November, Mr. Ramadan took a leave of absence from his teaching post at Oxford University, where he is a professor of contemporary Islamic studies.AdvertisementMr. Ramadan is a grandson of Hassan al-Banna, who founded the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt in the 1920s.Follow Aurelien Breeden on Twitter: @aurelienbrd.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PATRICK LAFORGEFEB. 6, 2018
Consider the Lady Dorito. The internet did, for a couple of days, after a podcast interview with the chief executive of PepsiCo went sideways.On Monday night, the company had to clarify that no, it was not going to create Doritos for women with reduced crunch and less orange finger dust.
            We already have Doritos for women — theyre called Doritos, and theyre loved by millions.        This media hysteria began, as it often does, with an apparently off-the-cuff quote, in this case from an interview with Indra Nooyi, chief executive of PepsiCo, on a Jan. 31 episode of the Freakonomics Radio podcast.Ms. Nooyi told the interviewer that women did not eat Doritos the same way men did.They dont like to crunch too loudly in public, she said. And they dont lick their fingers generously, and they dont like to pour the little broken pieces and the flavor into their mouth.AdvertisementShe was asked whether PepsiCo — which owns Frito-Lay, the manufacturer of Doritos — was planning a male and female version of chips.AdvertisementMs. Nooyi responded: Its not a male and female as much as, Are there snacks for women that can be designed and packaged differently? And yes, we are looking at it, and were getting ready to launch a bunch of them soon. For women, low-crunch, the full taste profile, not have so much of the flavor stick on the fingers, and how can you put it in a purse? Because women love to carry a snack in their purse.On Sunday, a British tabloid, The Sun, noticed the comments, reported Lady Doritos as fact, and from there the story spread, through syndication and aggregation, to The New York Post, Business Insider and others. A quick search of Google News showed nearly 900 results for queries about the chip brand and the terms women, female and ladies.Lady Doritos had become a thing, the proverbial news story that was too good to check.Then the conversation moved to social media. A post from the website The Daily Wire spurred nearly 10,000 Facebook actions, and blogs like Scary Mommy saw interaction rates in the thousands as well, based on data from CrowdTangle, which measures social media reaction. In total, the CrowdTangle dashboard found nearly 500 Facebook posts by media outlets on Monday about Doritos for women.It was not the good kind of interaction.The consensus among women on Twitter? No, thanks.
            i'm still laughing about lady doritos because i don't know a single woman who doesn't knock back the crumbs in the bottom of the bag        
            Women: We want equal pay for equal work and an end to sex discrimination in the workplace.Society: Heres a bag of Lady Doritos so you wont have to crunch too loudly in front of your male colleagues.        
            WE DO NOT WANT: #LadyDoritosLady LaxativesLady Power ToolsLady Shavers Little Lady LegoLady WagesWE DO WANT:Lady Prime MinisterLady LeadersLady Pope pic.twitter.com/7W8nmvIhfd 
            What if Lady Doritos are just regular Doritos but when a woman buys a bag she only gets 77% of the chips a guy would.#LadyDoritos 
            To compete with Lady Doritos, Lays has designed a new chip especially for men: It requires them to understand enthusiastic consent before they can open the bag.        Soon, PepsiCo was insisting it was all a misunderstanding.The reporting on a specific Doritos product for female consumers is inaccurate, the company said in a statement released on Monday night. We already have Doritos for women — theyre called Doritos, and theyre enjoyed by millions of people every day. At the same time, we know needs and preferences continue to evolve, and were always looking for new ways to engage and delight our consumers.
            I think the most shocking part of the Lady Doritos announcement is finding out the CEO is a woman.        Asked what Ms. Nooyi meant by snacks for women that can be designed and packaged differently, a spokeswoman declined to elaborate.I cant yet give any more details beyond what Indra relayed in the podcast, the spokeswoman said. However, I will be able to in a few months.Maggie Astor and Justin Bank contributed reporting.Follow Patrick LaForge on Twitter: @palafo.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Farhad Manjoo
 

STATE OF THE ART
FEB. 7, 2018
You could almost hear the trumpets blaring in the background of Mark Zuckerbergs announcement last week that Facebook would now promote local news stories in its news feed.People who know whats happening around them are more likely to get involved and help make a difference, the Facebook chief wrote, espousing an eat-your-vegetables view of local news that jibes with his new effort to turn Facebook into a force for global good.Theres little reason to doubt Mr. Zuckerbergs noble-sounding intentions. The internet has decimated the business model for large and small metropolitan newspapers, and Facebook, like other tech giants before it, just wants to help.Still, when it comes to the news business, hasnt Facebook already done enough? Just last month, the social network said it would play down national news in its feed. Considering all that has gone wrong with Facebooks half-decade dalliance with news — the rise of filter bubbles, clickbait, rampant misinformation and propaganda, and in some places the very unmooring of democratic society — the new embrace of local news arouses instant suspicion. Picture Godzilla, having thoroughly savaged Tokyo and New York, now turning a hungry eye toward Peoria and Palo Alto.AdvertisementThere may be another way to save local news. Over the last few weeks, I chatted with Jessica Lessin of The Information and Ben Thompson of Stratechery, two of my favorite sites for understanding whats going on in the technology business. In different ways, both talked through a new way of thinking about local news, and a novel business model for funding it, one that doesnt depend on the beneficence of Facebook or Google (which also has a new plan for local coverage).AdvertisementThe plan, for any would-be entrepreneur brave enough to try it, goes like this: Hire some very good journalists; just one or two are O.K. to start. Turn them loose on a large metropolitan area — try San Francisco, Los Angeles, Houston or any other city going through waves of change, and whose local press has been gutted by digital disruption.Have your reporters cover stuff that no one else is covering, and let them ignore stuff that everyone else is covering. Dont do movie reviews, stock market analysis, Super Bowl coverage or anything else that isnt local. Instead, emphasize coverage thats actionable, that residents deem necessary and valuable for short- and long-term planning — especially an obsessive focus on housing and development, transportation, education and local politics.Package it all in a form that commands daily attention — probably a morning email newsletter — and sprinkle it with a sense of community, like offline and online networking events for readers.How will you fund all of this? This is the most important part: Shun advertising. Instead, ask readers to pay for it with real money — $5 or $10 a month, or perhaps even more. It will take time, but if you build it right, you just might create the next great metropolitan news organization.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This plan may sound simplistic, almost like a joke. Wait, Sherlock, your big idea is to create a really good product and charge people money for it? Havent people tried this before?Less than you might think. The short history of digital media is lousy with advertising, which promotes all the wrong incentives for online news — volume over curation, aggregation over original coverage, speed over accuracy.More recently, there has been a surge in online subscriptions. Netflix is doing it for TV, Spotify for music, and Patreon for podcasters and YouTubers. And many news outlets — big companies like The New York Times and start-ups like The Athletic, which covers sports — are making subscriptions the center of their journalism.AdvertisementYet few entrepreneurs have jumped on the subscription bandwagon for local news. The reluctance makes sense; local markets are by definition small, and journalism is expensive.But after studying Ms. Lessins and Mr. Thompsons methods, I suspect theres a market for subscription-based local coverage. Someone just has to build it.How? Consider Ms. Lessins plan for The Information, the tech news service she started in 2013 after spending eight years at The Wall Street Journal. Back then, online subscriptions seemed antiquated; many companies had experimented with charging users, but most had failed to win large numbers of subscribers, and the big money in media was in ad-supported sites aiming for rapid expansion through viral traffic.People thought no one would pay for news, especially tech news, Ms. Lessin told me last month. The problem was the news business hadnt been focused on a key question: How do I deliver a differentiated product that people would pay for?Her idea for differentiation was to charge a lot for The Information — a subscription is $399 a year, close to what The Wall Street Journal charges for print delivery — but she would offer readers quality instead of volume.The Information publishes just two or three stories a day, often scoops and analysis, including a handy daily roundup of the most important stories in tech that day.The effect is like that of a filter, and a necessary one. And The Information has broken many big industry stories, including last years news of sexual harassment allegations against the venture capitalist Justin Caldbeck and Roy Price, Amazons former entertainment chief.Mr. Thompson, who worked in the tech industry at companies like Microsoft, started Stratechery in 2013. It offers a daily newsletter featuring strategic analysis of developments in the tech industry. (Heres one example: Mr. Thompsons argument for why subscriptions are the best answer for local news.) In 2014, he began charging for the analysis. Now he publishes one article a week for free; to read the others, you have to pay $100 a year for the service.AdvertisementMr. Thompsons overhead is low: He is the only writer of Stratechery, which has become required reading among tech executives and many others in the industry. He declined to divulge any subscriber numbers, other than to say hes doing very well.A high-priced subscription site may well have a natural audience ceiling. Ms. Lessin declined to divulge her subscriber base but said it was significantly north of 10,000, which is lower than the audience for many ad-based digital publications.Still, two years ago, she said, the site became cash-flow positive — that is, it pays for expansion from its subscriptions — and it plans to hire a half-dozen more journalists this year, adding to a work force of 31 full-time employees. It has also started an accelerator program that invests $25,000 in new subscription news businesses; one of them, Detour Detroit, is a planned news service aimed at covering the Motor City.Sure, there are reasons to be skeptical that this model could work in local news. Many subscribers to The Information and Stratechery think of the publications as a business expense — they work in tech or finance, wealthy industries that will pay just about anything for business intelligence.Yet there are striking overlaps between what those publications do and what a subscription-based local news start-up would look like. For one thing, a lot of those wealthy people also live in undercovered urban and suburban areas; if theyre paying for news about tech, wouldnt they also pay for in-depth investigations into their kids school district, their citys mayoral race or the traffic clogging their commute?Theres also the opportunity to pay for a sense of community. The Information — through the Slack chat service, conference calls and in-person meet-ups — constantly brings subscribers together to talk about the industry. A local news start-up could do the same, selling not just news but a sense of belonging.When youre in the subscription news business, youre not selling articles, Mr. Thompson said.Why do they pay?News happens in tech every day, and I do the thinking for them, he said. A subscription-based local news business would offer the same value: Youre selling people a feeling of being informed, of being good citizens — thats what youre selling.Now we just need someone to build it.Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo.A version of this article appears in print on February 8, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: How to Save Local News: Make People Pay for It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 30, 2018
As calzones are to the Naples area, panzerotti — another filled half-moon turnover — are to Apulia, the heel of Italy. Though panzerotti ooze similar fillings, they are made from a thinner dough than calzones and deep-fried, not baked. Now theyre available in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, at Panzerotti Bites. Vittoria Lattanzio and her husband, Pasquale De Ruvo, who are from Apulia, fry them with a dozen fillings, including mortadella, tomato, roasted vegetables and tuna. Sweet ones are filled with ricotta and Nutella. They are quite light, miraculously greaseless, and if you take them home to serve, they need but five minutes in a 350-degree oven to come back to life. A few with fancy fillings like smoked salmon are folded into a heavier casing: Panzerotti, $7 to $12, Panzerotti Bites, 235 Smith Street (Douglass Street), 347-720-0269, panzerottibites.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Snack: Calzones Slimmer Cousin Is Settling Into Brooklyn.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 30, 2018
The West Coast albacore tuna fishery is so well managed in the Pacific that it gets a green light from the Monterey Bay Aquariums Seafood Watch program. Almost all the fish, which are pole-caught and frozen on the boats, are shipped to Japan for sushi, but Vinny Milburn, an owner of Greenpoint Fish & Lobster, has some of the fish through May. Albacore is pink, excellently mild and sweet when raw in sashimi, crudo or tartare, and acquires a subtle beefiness when seared with the interior still rare. Slowly poach it in seasoned olive oil for confit: Boneless albacore tuna, previously frozen and lightly brined to prevent freezer burn, $16.99 a pound, Greenpoint Fish & Lobster, 114 Nassau Avenue (Eckford Street), Greenpoint, Brooklyn, 718-349-0400, and 5-43 48th Avenue (Vernon Boulevard), Long Island City, Queens, 718-472-2040, greenpointfish.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Sear: Pole-Caught Albacore From the West Coast.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
        PAID POST
      Artificial Intelligence:How We Help Machines LearnArtificial Intelligence:How We HelpMachines LearnBy age 1, most babies do something that astonishes their parents: They say their first word. It means the child is developing language based on experience. Shes learning.And while that first word is usually Mama or Dada, thats not because the baby wants to say thanks for changing all those diapers (sorry, Mom and Dad). The most frequent first words, which also include hi, baba (bottle) and dog, are those things babies hear most often in their first months of life. Parents label these items and then repeat those labels over and over until the child develops the muscle strength and knowledge to say the words themselves.In many ways, repetition is how machines learn, too. Engineers train computers to recognize common patterns in mountains of data by exposing them to numerous variations of the same thing. After being shown thousands of photos of bank checks, for example, computers learn to recognize both printed and handwritten numbers, which allows us to deposit a check by taking a picture of it using a smartphone. In the same way that babies learn to say Mama and reach for their mothers when they want to be held, a computer learns to recognize images of printed numbers so it can identify bank accounts and handwritten numbers to determine a checks amount.This process is called machine learning, and it is fundamental to artificial intelligence, or A.I. While A.I. is often seen as mysterious and complicated, in fact the way we teach computers to learn has a lot in common with the way human beings learn. Many A.I. principles are modeled on sciences understanding of how the human brain processes and categorizes information.Today, A.I. is quietly embedded in our daily lives — many of us dont even realize its there. In addition to simplifying banking, A.I. enables our email to detect spam, our cars to brake automatically and our phones to respond to voice commands. When we interact with digital assistants like Alexa, were tapping A.I. Skin cancer can even be diagnosed earlier thanks to A.I.s learned memory of thousands of images of melanoma variations.Still, weve only just begun to scratch the surface of A.I.s potential. Lets take a look at how A.I. is being used across industries today and where it may take us in the future.Trevor Darrell, a professor of computer science at the University of California, Berkeley, explains that while there are core principles that human and machine learning share, there are also key differences.The way biology learns is to have situations where thousands or millions of trials are just there for free in the environment, he says. If shown only a few examples of, say, scissors, youll have no problem telling me what other objects in your environment are that thing. Machines need thousands of labeled examples, both positive and negative.One well-developed area of A.I. where this principle has been applied is computer vision, where machines recognize images in a photo (such as the aforementioned check) or a video. Image recognition is what enables Facebook to deliver content its users are interested in: If youve liked photos of your friends new puppy, Facebook will make sure you dont miss pics of that puppy in the future.For visually impaired people, image recognition — plus computer-generated speech — can deliver much more. We launched a feature based on a computer vision algorithm that allows people who are visually impaired to go through their news feed and understand what photos consist of, says Joaquin Quiñonero Candela, the head of Facebooks Applied Machine Learning team, noting that the descriptions are read aloud automatically. They not only hear that somebody posted a photo, theyre told the photo shows three people in the park riding a bike. That greatly improves the Facebook experience for those users.The breakthrough is the result of decades of work. Yann LeCun, chief scientist at Facebooks Artificial Intelligence Research lab (FAIR) and a founding director of New York Universitys Center for Data Science, was among those in the 1980s who recognized that programming a computer to make calculations based on quantifiable outcomes is much different than getting one to make a judgment call that isnt so straightforward.We didnt know how to write a program that would interpret if an image had a cat, a dog, an airplane or a sailboat in it, LeCun says. To understand how to solve the problem, you have to think of an image the way a computer does, with each pixel defined by three numbers that correspond to its color and intensity.To a computer, an image is just a table of numbers, LeCun explains. To teach the machine how to interpret that data, LeCun looked to humans. The brain learns based on how strong the links are between neurons — clusters of nerve cells that, when connected, become increasingly associated with a specific idea or physical entity. These are called neural networks.LeCun replicated this model by running the data of thousands of images of a given thing — a dog, for example — through a series of connected digital layers. Using an algorithm (the computer science term for a set of instructions), each layer looks for patterns in the data that indicate a feature that is inherently dog-like. The next layer will look at another dog-like feature. Each layer is calculated and an average is reached that theoretically determines whether or not this object is, in fact, a dog. But sometimes the algorithm doesnt get it right. Thats where humans come in.If it produces the wrong answer, LeCun says, you tell it the correct answer, and it adjusts the average. Once the machine is trained, it can begin to use this refined average to recognize what is contained in new images.Still, the system isnt perfect. One problem is that the answer a machine gives is based on a range. Yes, thats a dog, for example, might reflect only 80 percent certainty.Another problem is a fundamental difference between humans and machines: Be it our first word, our first step or our first time behind the wheel, human experience is cumulative and contextual, helping us to better understand how the world works. A.I. machines, in contrast, are designed to perform an isolated task: to play chess or recognize faces.Still, the system isnt perfect. One problem is that the answer a machine gives is based on a range. Yes, thats a dog, for example, might reflect only 80 percent certainty.Another problem is a fundamental difference between humans and machines: Be it our first word, our first step or our first time behind the wheel, human experience is cumulative and contextual, helping us to better understand how the world works. A.I. machines, in contrast, are designed to perform an isolated task: to play chess or recognize faces.Humans possess a breadth of skills far beyond that of any machine yet invented. We rely, at a minimum, on four interconnected capabilities to successfully navigate the world: (1) to perceive and categorize things around us; (2) to contextualize those things for understanding and learning; (3) to be able to make predictions based on past experience and present circumstances and (4) to make plans based on all of the above.Add these together, and you get common sense — those functions you need to survive and thrive, LeCun says. At this point, most A.I. has developed only the most basic abilities, namely perception and categorization. Or, as LeCun puts it: A dog has more common sense than the smartest computer. Take the example of a dog thats shaped like a bagel. Presented with such an image, a computer might assert that its 60 percent sure the dog is a baked good, while humans would know from experience, without being explicitly taught, that it is, in fact, a dog.Joelle Pineau, Ph.D., who leads Facebook A.I. Research in Montreal, cites another language-based example: If I say to you, The trophy will not fit in the suitcase — its too small, what does the it refer to? Humans know that while a trophy can be larger than a suitcase, its hard to imagine a scenario where youd try to fit your luggage inside one. A computer has no way of knowing that, Pineau notes. Its this sort of contextual knowledge that computers lack.Despite these limitations, A.I. is bringing people together in another important way — through language translation. Professor Darrell at Berkeley points out that A.I. is enabling information to be understood and shared globally. Find a newspaper article in another country, and you can get at least a passable translation for free, instantly, he says. That wasnt possible 10 years ago.Facebook is using the same model of neural networks used in computer vision to offer better translations. Indeed, an advancement in Facebooks A.I. technology has allowed the company to power 4.5 billion translations a day. Fifty percent of people on Facebook dont speak English, and most dont have a language in common, says engineering manager Necip Fazil Ayan, who worked on Facebooks new translation system. Our goal is to be able to give Facebook to everyone in their preferred language.Despite these limitations, A.I. is bringing people together in another important way — through language translation. Professor Darrell at Berkeley points out that A.I. is enabling information to be understood and shared globally. Find a newspaper article in another country, and you can get at least a passable translation for free, instantly, he says. That wasnt possible 10 years ago.Facebook is using the same model of neural networks used in computer vision to offer better translations. Indeed, an advancement in Facebooks A.I. technology has allowed the company to power 4.5 billion translations a day. Fifty percent of people on Facebook dont speak English, and most dont have a language in common, says engineering manager Necip Fazil Ayan, who worked on Facebooks new translation system. Our goal is to be able to give Facebook to everyone in their preferred language.Previously, translations were based on a system that compared sentences phrase by phrase — and often word by word. Similar to the way humans learn to read, by going from our ABCs to sounding out words to understanding complete sentences, Facebook and other tech companies have applied a form of neural networks to translations that takes into account the context of an entire sentence or paragraph, increasing accuracy and fluency. Its the same kind of exposure to repetition and labeling that makes computer vision possible.The translations are becoming more idiomatic now, Facebooks Candela says. I can understand the subtleties between languages. This already removes barriers and in the future will help cultures understand each other. I think thats incredible.As we continue to leverage A.I. to help humans perform daily tasks and make decisions, its essential that we prevent bias and discrimination from becoming embedded, too.LeCun was instrumental in forming a coalition of leading tech companies to ensure that A.I. continues to evolve ethically. The Partnership on Artificial Intelligence to Benefit People & Society has separate working groups focused on safety, accountability, transparency and collaboration. For example, biases can be hidden in data, and if systems are built on that data, that can lead to actions and recommendations that replicate those biases.How do we design robots so their values are aligned with human values? LeCun asks. This goes beyond each of our companies — we need to discuss this in the open. As A.I. tools become more common, we need to work together to be aware of and protect against their limitations, especially in areas like bias and abuse.Among these issues is ensuring that, rather than alienating man from machine, we work to achieve a higher quality of life for the people who operate them. A lot of people take the concept of A.I. for granted without truly understanding how vital it is in our daily lives and all the impactful ways we can use it in the future, Candela says.Humans working closely with A.I. can lead to advancements never before imagined. When Candela recently sat in on focus groups to test Facebooks new technology for visually impaired people, he gained a glimpse into the future of whats possible.How the world suddenly opened up for them is truly remarkable, he says. This is groundbreaking technology. Its just so inspiring.Artificial intelligence, revealed Find out more about how it worksThe news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation.
Up Next By                     
 ALEX HAWGOOD
 
JAN. 26, 2018
Name Jaimie WilsonAge 22Hometown Howell, Mich.Now Lives In a two-bedroom apartment in the East Village of Manhattan that he shares with a roommate.Claim to Fame Mr. Wilson is a budding folk-pop musician and baby-faced model who appears on the most recent cover of Candy magazine, as well as in advertisements for the skimpy mens underwear brand 2(x)ist. He is also something of an L.G.B.T. activist by being a plainly outspoken transgender man to his hundreds of thousands of followers on Facebook and Instagram. Music has the power to bring people outside of the community into the community, he said.Big Break In March, about one year after he began transitioning, Mr. Wilson posted before-and-after photos (some shirtless) on Facebook that racked up 13 million views. The actress Ruby Rose commented that he was looking like a young Channing Tatum. The rapper Lil Wayne wrote, Wow. People didnt start listening to my music until after my transition, which is funny because I had to really practice to regain my singing voice because my vocal cords had changed so drastically, Mr. Wilson said.Latest Project In 2015, he started a clothing swap program in Michigan for transitioning men and women called T Is for Trans. But like most New Yorkers with small closets, he had to close up shop when he moved to the city. He still does the occasional giveaway of chest binders (compression garments that reduce the appearance of female breasts) through Instagram Stories. Clothing is the last thing you want to think about when youre spending most of your money on hormones and top surgery funds, he said.Next Thing In February he will release his first EP, funded on Kickstarter, Life Is a Journey. After playing at last years Sziget Festival in Budapest alongside Pink and the Chainsmokers, he plans to make his first official music video and continue hitting the road. In the future, I want to be one of those people where other artists might say, I got to headline with Jaimie Wilson.Pretty Hurts While he has received an outpouring of support about his trans identity, there are plenty of detractors both online and off. I had people tell me I cant be transgender because I was such a pretty girl or because I didnt show the signs, he said. I want to show other people out there that despite what you look like or how people view you, you can do whatever you want.A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 2018, on Page ST7 of the New York edition with the headline: Transgender Activist  With Guitar in Hand.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardAre you sure you still want to call it fake news, Mr. President?For the past year, Donald Trump has repeatedly denied the existence of a profound national security threat: Russias attempt to interfere in the 2016 election on his behalf. He dismissed the Russian subversion effort as a hoax by his opponents and the media despite voluminous evidence to the contrary — including the consensus of the American intelligence community — that it did in fact happen, and is sure to happen again.Now come the indictments. On Friday, Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating Russias role in the 2016 election, filed criminal charges of fraud and identity theft against 13 Russian citizens and three Russian organizations, all alleged to have operated a sophisticated influence campaign intended to sow discord in the U.S. political system.One organization, the Internet Research Agency — which the indictment says is funded by Yevgeny Prigozhin, the go-to oligarch of Russias president, Vladimir Putin — began its efforts as early as 2014, according to the indictment. Its staffers, known as specialists, posed as Americans and created false identities to set up social media pages and groups aimed at attracting American audiences. The broad outlines of this interference have been known publicly for a while, but the sheer scope of the deception detailed in Fridays indictments is breathtaking.By the spring of 2016, the operation had zeroed in on supporting Mr. Trump and disparaging Hillary Clinton. The Internet Research Agency alone had a staff of 80 and a monthly budget of $1.25 million. On the advice of a real, unnamed grass-roots activist from Texas, it had focused its efforts on swing states like Colorado, Virginia and Florida.Staffers bought ads with messages like Hillary is a Satan, Ohio Wants Hillary 4 Prison and Vote Republican, Vote Trump, and support the Second Amendment!They created hundreds of social media accounts on YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and other sites to confuse and anger people about sensitive issues like immigration, religion and the Black Lives Matter movement — in some cases gaining hundreds of thousands of followers.They staged rallies while pretending to be American grass-roots organizations. A poster at one pro-Clinton rally in July 2016 read Support Hillary. Save American Muslims, along with a fabricated quote attributed to Mrs. Clinton: I think Sharia Law will be a powerful new direction of freedom.As the election drew nearer, they tried to suppress minority turnout and promoted false allegations of Democratic voter fraud. The specialist running one of the organizations Facebook accounts, called Secured Borders, was criticized for not publishing enough posts and was told that it is imperative to intensify criticizing Hillary Clinton.After the election, they continued to spread confusion and chaos, staging rallies both for and against Mr. Trump, in one case on the same day and in the same city.All along, they took steps to cover their tracks by stealing the identities of real Americans, opening accounts on American-based servers and lying about what their money was being used for. Last September, after Facebook turned over information about Russian ad purchases to the special counsel, a specialist named Irina Kaverzina emailed a family member: We had a slight crisis here at work: the FBI busted our activity (not a joke). So, I got preoccupied with covering tracks together with the colleagues. Ms. Kaverzina continued, I created all these pictures and posts, and the Americans believed that it was written by their people.Fake news, indeed.Mr. Trumps defenders, desperate to exculpate him, seized on a single word — unwitting — that the indictment used to describe certain members, volunteers and supporters of the Trump campaign involved in local community outreach who had interacted with the Russians.In other words, as the White House subtly put it in a statement on Friday, NO COLLUSION. The president repeated the claim himself in a tweet, grudgingly acknowledging Russias anti-US campaign, but emphasizing that it had started long before I announced that I would run for President. The results of the election were not impacted. The Trump campaign did nothing wrong — no collusion!Its true that, as Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein said in an announcement, these particular indictments do not allege that any American knew about the influence campaign, nor that the campaign had changed the outcome of the election. But thats quite different from saying that there was no collusion or impact on the election. As Mr. Rosenstein also said, the special counsels investigation is continuing, and there are many strands the public still knows little or nothing about.Remember, Mr. Mueller has already secured two guilty pleas, one from Mr. Trumps former national security adviser and another from a former campaign adviser, for lying to federal authorities about their connections to Russian government officials. He has also charged Mr. Trumps former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, and his top aide, Rick Gates, with crimes including money laundering. Mr. Gates appears to be nearing a plea deal himself.Then there were Russian cyberattacks on the elections systems of at least 39 states. And the hacking of emails sent among members of the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign — which Mr. Trump openly encouraged.This is all going to happen again. Intelligence and law enforcement authorities have made that clear. The question is whether Mr. Trump will at last accept the fact of Russian interference and take aggressive measures to protect American democracy. For starters, he could impose the sanctions on Russia that Congress overwhelmingly passed, and that he signed into law, last summer. Of course, this would require him to overcome his mysterious resistance to acting against Russia and to focus on protecting his own country.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionRyan GoodmanAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Natalie ProulxBefore reading the article: Watch the video How Do Russian Bots Work? below. Then, answer the questions:— What is a bot?— What are some of the tactics bots use?— What is one way these tactics have affected individuals or society?Now, read the article, On Social Media, Lax Enforcement Lets Impostor Accounts Thrive, and answer the following questions: 1. What argument do the authors make about bots in the first six paragraphs of the article? What are three pieces of evidence they use to support that argument?2. Where do impostor accounts come from?3. What are some of the reasons these fake accounts are created?4. How do Facebook and Twitters impersonation policies and enforcement — or lack thereof — allow bots to thrive?5. What steps are these companies making to prevent impostor accounts on their sites?6. How do bots affect peoples personal and professional lives?7. Why is it far easier to build a bot than to kill one on most social media platforms?Finally, tell us more about what you think: In addition to being harmful to individuals, social media bots and trolls have also had a significant impact on society:Millions of accounts impersonating real people roam social media platforms, promoting commercial products and celebrities, attacking political candidates and sowing discord. They spread fake images and misinformation about the school shooting last week in Parkland, Fla. They were central to Russian attempts to sway the 2016 presidential election in favor of Donald J. Trump, according to a federal grand jury indictment on Friday. And American intelligence officials believe they will figure in Russian efforts to shape the coming midterm elections, too.In your opinion, does more need to be done to prevent the proliferation of fake accounts? Why or why not?If so, who should be responsible for combating these bots and what should they do? For example, should social media companies make it more difficult to create accounts? Should they have stronger policies and enforcement? Or should they have more oversight from the government?AdvertisementBy DAVID STREITFELD and CHAD BRAYFEB. 8, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Twitter often feels like the digital equivalent of a swamp.The Russians used the platform to disrupt the 2016 election. Famous people buy fake followers to make themselves seem more famous. Prominent members of the chattering class have been signing off for good. Sometimes it seems as if no one loves the service except for the president of the United States.As a business, however, Twitter might finally be starting to work.On Thursday, it reported a profit in the fourth quarter, the first black ink since going public in 2013. The news pushed its shares up 12 percent to $30.18 — their highest level in more than two years.We did what we said we were going to do, an exultant Jack Dorsey, Twitters chief executive, said on Twitter. Our focus and self-discipline continues to improve.
            Im so proud of the @Twitter team. We did what we said we were going to do. Our focus and self-discipline continues to improve. Thank you team! And thanks to all of our shareholders for the patience and support. 2018 is going to be a great year.        Its a measure of the undisciplined — O.K., brutal — nature of Twitter that most of the replies to Mr. Dorseys tweet were not congratulations but insults and criticism. Others were incomprehensible.AdvertisementWhat counts, however, is that those cranks and critics are there in the first place. The number of people who use the service monthly rose 4 percent to 330 million, which — while not a big increase — is something. Those who use the social media service every day grew 12 percent from the fourth quarter of 2016, the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit gains.AdvertisementThe user growth is kind of astounding, said Rich Greenfield, a media and tech analyst at the research firm BTIG, who has been recommending the stock for a year. They were barely growing two years ago.Twitter originally showed tweets in reverse chronological order — the latest posts, however mundane, were on top. Now it is using algorithms to try to show the most important tweets first, making the site more engaging.If you show the right tweets to the right person at the right time, it creates user happiness, Mr. Greenfield said. That means more time spent on the site, which means more opportunities for advertising.This has been a good week for social media companies that are not Facebook. On Tuesday, Snap reported much better revenue than expected, and a slightly narrower loss. Its shares also soared on the news. In contrast, Facebook said last week that it had made changes that reduced the hours its two billion users were spending on its pages.Over all, Twitter reported a profit of $91 million in the final three months of 2017, compared with a loss of $167 million a year earlier. Margins were much better, expenses were lower and stock-based compensation decreased sharply.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Other numbers were not as impressive. Revenue rose 2 percent to $732 million in the quarter. Revenue from advertising, which makes up the bulk of its revenue, increased 1 percent. In general, Twitter exceeded low expectations.A solid result across the board and builds upon the momentum from the third quarter, analysts at UBS wrote in a research note.One quarter is not much of a streak, and Twitter has often been unable to keep it up. Jim Cridlin, the global head of innovation at Mindshare, a unit of the advertising giant WPP, said that while Twitters momentum continued into the fourth quarter, the company still faced significant headwinds.AdvertisementLeadership is one issue. Mr. Dorsey splits his time between Twitter and his other company, the digital payments firm Square. Last month, Anthony Noto, Twitters chief operating officer and one of Mr. Dorseys most trusted deputies, left the company to become chief executive of the embattled online lender Social Finance.Twitter also faces criticism as federal and state authorities scrutinize companies that sold millions of fake followers on social media platforms. More than one million followers of entertainers, athletes and others have disappeared after an article by The New York Times detailed the business practices of a company called Devumi. Twitter previously said it would take action against Devumis practices.For the current quarter, UBS calculated that Twitter would generate $583 million of revenue, $11 million more than analysts were predicting. That might keep the party going.What really is helping Twitter is that there are only three American social media companies that count. Facebook is by far the largest, but is under pressure from all quarters precisely because of its size and influence. It is trying to moderate the latter without hurting the former, which is going to be tricky. Snap is a singular effort forging its own direction as a communications platform.That leaves Twitter, troubled as it might be.Advertisers have a huge desire to be on mobile devices more, but there are not a lot of ways to reach people on applications worthy of your home screen, said Mr. Greenfield. Twitter is on your home screen.Follow David Streitfeld and Chad Bray on Twitter: @DavidStreitfeld and @Chadbray.David Streitfeld reported from San Francisco and Chad Bray from London.A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Positive News for Twitter: Its First Quarterly Profit.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JONAH ENGEL BROMWICHFEB. 16, 2018
In a long-expected announcement, Mitt Romney said on Friday that he would run for the United States Senate, pledging to bring Utahs priorities of balanced budgets, strong economy and welcoming borders to Washington.Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts and the 2012 Republican nominee for president, made the announcement in a two-minute video posted to Twitter and Facebook. He cited his experience as the chief executive of the organizing committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and compared Utah, where his mother was born, favorably to the nations capital.Utah has a lot to teach the politicians in Washington, he said, contrasting the states balanced budgets and positive export-to-import-ratio to Washingtons.And, in a pointed gesture toward the restrictive immigration policies of President Trump, he noted that Utah welcomes legal immigrants from around the world, while Washington sends immigrants a message of exclusion.AdvertisementLast month, The New York Times reported that Mr. Romney had said privately that he was planning a Senate campaign. Im running, he texted a close friend, Kem Gardner.AdvertisementHe would replace Senator Orrin G. Hatch, who announced in early January that he would retire at the end of the year.Mr. Romney is popular in Utah, despite not having been born in the state and having spent much of his life elsewhere. (He and his wife, Ann, once kept a vacation home in Park City and in 2013, built a mansion in Holladay, a suburb of Salt Lake City.) He is one of the most prominent Mormons in American public life, a political advantage in a state where the population is about 60 percent Mormon and many civic and business leaders attend the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Mr. Romneys running mate in 2012, endorsed him in a statement on Friday, saying, Our party and our country are always better off when Mitt is engaged.Mr. Trump had pleaded with Senator Hatch, the longest-serving Senate Republican, to run for an eighth term, and Mr. Romneys video underscored the potential for continuing clashes between himself and the president. The clip took several barely veiled shots at Mr. Trumps policies and manner, as well as the ever-coarsening state of political discourse on Washingtons Capitol Hill.On Utahs Capitol Hill, he said, people treat one another with respect.During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Romney decried Mr. Trump as a fraud and a phony, and said that he was playing the American public for suckers. But after the election, he embarked on a more cordial relationship with the president, as his name was one of several in the discussion of possible nominees for Secretary of State. After the violent events in Charlottesville, Va., last summer, he again changed his approach, imploring the president to apologize for saying that there had been blame on both sides.What he communicated caused racists to rejoice, minorities to weep, and the vast heart of America to mourn, he said in a Facebook post in August.The two have talked more recently, but Mr. Trump has not offered his support for Mr. Romneys campaign. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the announcement.Mr. Romney is well-known to many Americans, having run for president twice, once in 2008 and again in 2012, when he faced Barack Obama as the Republican Partys nominee. After losing, he remained relatively visible, first with the debut of the 2014 documentary Mitt, an intimate look at his campaigns that made Mr. Romney seem less awkward and ill-at-ease than he often had while campaigning, and then with his comments about Mr. Trump in 2016.Follow Jonah Bromwich on Twitter: @Jonesieman.A version of this article appears in print on February 17, 2018, on Page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: He Says Hell Teach Lawmakers A Lesson.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byIts very hard to change peoples minds, especially when so many are already committed partisans. By Brendan NyhanHow easy is it to change peoples votes in an election?The answer, a growing number of studies conclude, is that most forms of political persuasion seem to have little effect at all. This conclusion may sound jarring at a time when people are concerned about the effects of the false news articles that flooded Facebook and other online outlets during the 2016 election. Observers speculated that these so-called fake news articles swung the election to Donald J. Trump. Similar suggestions of large persuasion effects, supposedly pushing Mr. Trump to victory, have been made about online advertising from the firm Cambridge Analytica and content promoted by Russian bots.Much more remains to be learned about the effects of these types of online activities, but people should not assume they had huge effects. Previous studies have found, for instance, that the effects of even television advertising (arguably a higher-impact medium) are very small. According to one credible estimate, the net effect of exposure to an additional ad shifts the partisan vote of approximately two people out of 10,000.In fact, a recent meta-analysis of numerous different forms of campaign persuasion, including in-person canvassing and mail, finds that their average effect in general elections is zero. Field experiments testing the effects of online ads on political candidates and issues have also found null effects. We shouldnt be surprised — its hard to change peoples minds! Their votes are shaped by fundamental factors like which party they typically support and how they view the state of the economy. Fake news and bots are likely to have vastly smaller effects, especially given how polarized our politics have become. Heres what you should look for in evaluating claims about vast persuasion effects from dubious online content:How many people actually saw the questionable material. Many alarming statistics have been produced since the election about how many times fake news was shared on Facebook or how many times Russian bots retweeted content on Twitter. These statistics obscure the fact that the content being shared may not reach many Americans (most people are not on Twitter and consume relatively little political news) or even many humans (many bot followers may themselves be bots). Whether the people being exposed are persuadable. Dubious political content online is disproportionately likely to reach heavy news consumers who already have strong opinions. For instance, a study I conducted with Andrew Guess of Princeton and Jason Reifler of the University of Exeter in Britain showed that exposure to fake news websites before the 2016 election was heavily concentrated among the 10 percent of Americans with the most conservative information diets — not exactly swing voters. The proportion of news people saw that is bogus. The total number of shares or likes that fake news and bots attract can sound enormous until you consider how much information circulates online. Twitter, for instance, reported that Russian bots tweeted 2.1 million times before the election — certainly a worrisome number. But these represented only 1 percent of all election-related tweets and 0.5 percent of views of election-related tweets. Similarly, my study with Mr. Guess and Mr. Reifler found that the mean number of articles on fake news websites visited by Trump supporters was 13.1, but only 40 percent of his supporters visited such websites, and they represented only about 6 percent of the pages they visited on sites focusing on news topics. None of these findings indicate that fake news and bots arent worrisome signs for American democracy. They can mislead and polarize citizens, undermine trust in the media, and distort the content of public debate. But those who want to combat online misinformation should take steps based on evidence and data, not hype or speculation. Brendan Nyhan is a professor of government at Dartmouth College. Follow him on Twitter at @BrendanNyhan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylensIn David Rothenbergs photos, the jetliners landing at La Guardia Airport are silent, imposing behemoths. For the Queens neighborhoods under the flight path, they are anything but silent.By Eric NagourneyYou can be forgiven for wondering what enormous telephoto lens David Rothenberg had to use to get those eye-popping, up-close shots he likes to take of jetliners as they come in for a landing at La Guardia Airport.But sadly, the residents of East Elmhurst, Queens, whose neighborhood is under the flight path, know all too well that Mr. Rothenberg has no need for any special lenses. If the jets in his photos seem to be filling the sky, its because they basically are.The roar of the jet engines is also overwhelming, and even after all this time photographing the planes, Mr. Rothenberg is sometimes taken aback. It can still be a little alarming, he says.Once, he said, seconds after a plane flew by, a gust of wind blew in behind, and in one great burst a tree shed its leaves.The air traffic in and out of La Guardia has long been a source of frustration to residents of the communities around it. When the wind blows in from the north, people living near the airport know the planes will soon follow: Pilots fly into the wind to slow down as they land on Runway 4.Theres nothing for people to do but hunker down. Of course, these are ideal conditions for Mr. Rothenberg, who lives in the neighboring community of Jackson Heights. I know its time to go out and take pictures when I hear the planes flying overhead, he said.Mr. Rothenbergs images show planes seemingly grazing roofs or on the verge of being tangled in overhead wires. The aircraft are so close that when he does use longer lenses, he captures intimate portraits of passengers taking in the scene below them.The only thing the photos cant reproduce is the rush of wind and the onslaught of noise. Theyre very still and quiet, Mr. Rothenberg says. The residents of East Elmhurst wish they could say the same.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. David Rothenberg is on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Advertisement
FEB. 21, 2018

Seeking College Students Stories
Seeking College Students StoriesBy JESSICA BENNETT and DANIEL JONES MARCH 12, 2018As stories of sexual misconduct continue to dominate the news, a debate has erupted over a particular kind of encounter, one that may not be viewed as sexual assault but which constitutes something murkier than a bad date.Weve seen it play out on a public stage, from the Aziz Ansari incident to The New Yorkers Cat Person story. So-called gray-zone sex has prompted impassioned conversations about — and personal reflection on — what constitutes consent and how we signal our desire or apprehension in the moment. This debate is especially vibrant on college campuses, where for years students and administrators have grappled with the issue.We want to hear how you handle consent for sexual intimacy in relationships and encounters. Do you have a particular experience you find yourself thinking back to? What was said, texted or hinted at, through words or physical cues, that moved the encounter forward — or stopped it? How did it make you feel at the time, and how do you think about it now?• We are seeking accounts from college undergraduates worldwide in 500 words or less.• Visuals that illustrate your story (text message conversations, social media screenshots or similar images) are welcome.• Your submission will not be published unless we contact you first. Reasonable measures may be taken to protect the privacy of those involved.• The deadline is 11:59 p.m. EST on Sunday, March 11. You must be at least 18 years old to submit.For updates along the way, follow Jessica Bennett (@jessicabennett), The Timess gender editor, and Daniel Jones (@danjonesnyt), the editor of Modern Love, on Twitter, and like the Modern Love Facebook page. — Jessica Bennett and Daniel JonesThis is a project of The New York Times Gender Initiative and Modern Love.Illustration by Franziska BarczykAdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERSFEB. 9, 2018
WASHINGTON — David Sorensen, a White House speechwriter, resigned on Friday after a news report detailed accusations from a former wife who said he had abused her during their marriage.His resignation came two days after Rob Porter, the White House staff secretary, submitted his own resignation after his two former wives publicly accused him of being abusive to them when they were married.In an interview in The Washington Post, Mr. Sorensens former wife, Jessica Corbett, detailed a volatile two-and-a-half-year marriage in which Mr. Sorensen ran over her foot while driving a car and put out a lit cigarette on her hand. Their divorce became final last fall. Ms. Corbett said she described those episodes to the F.B.I. last fall as it was conducting a background check of Mr. Sorensen, according to The Post.Mr. Sorensen denied Ms. Corbetts account, and insisted that she was the abuser. Responding to a Facebook message on Friday evening, Mr. Sorensen called his former wife creative and later emailed a lengthy statement disputing her account. In the statement, he called her claims malicious and without authentic evidence. He also included photographs that he said were evidence of injuries she left him with during confrontations.AdvertisementHe added, Although I had hoped to never have to think about or discuss the woman who spent years physically attacking, threatening and lying about me — and relentlessly and cruelly bombarding me with unimaginable fits of rage — this incident is an opportunity to highlight the grossly underreported and unacknowledged issue of female-on-male domestic violence.AdvertisementAsked why he did not fight to keep his job, Mr. Sorensen said in a Facebook message: I didnt want the White House to have to deal with this distraction. It should be able to focus on continuing President Trumps historic accomplishments for the American People.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A former policy adviser to Gov. Paul Richard LePage of Maine, Mr. Sorensen began working for the Trump administration in May. Julie Rabinowitz, a spokeswoman for Mr. LePage, said in a statement on Friday that the governor had been unaware of the accusations, and that none had been made during Mr. Sorensens time in that office.Without an allegation or evidence, there was nothing upon which the governor could take action, she wrote.In a statement, Raj Shah, the deputy White House press secretary, confirmed Mr. Sorensens departure.Before we were contacted by the media, we learned last night that there were allegations, Mr. Shah said. We immediately confronted the staffer, he denied the allegations and he resigned today.Like Ms. Corbett, Mr. Porters former wives also said they had told the F.B.I. about being abused — in their cases, more than a year ago. But the background checks were still underway for both men at the time of their resignations, and there is no indication that the White House conducted its own review of either aide.A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: After Claims Of Abuse, Another Aide Steps Down.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVID STREITFELDFEB. 6, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Snap finally snapped its losing streak.As the messaging and media company prepares to celebrate its first anniversary as a publicly traded stock, it handily reversed a slide that consumed much of the past year. After it released fourth quarter results on Tuesday, Snaps beleaguered shares rose more than 20 percent in after-hours trading.Our business really came together towards the end of last year, Evan Spiegel, Snaps chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts.Revenue was $286 million, up 72 percent from a year earlier and about $30 million more than analysts had expected. Daily users rose nine million to 187 million, the best growth in over a year. The retention rate of new Android users, a special focus for Snap, jumped nearly 20 percent over the previous year.The company lost $350 million in the quarter, or 13 cents a share, which was narrower than the loss of 16 cents that was expected by analysts. And it also contrasted with the carnage of the prior quarter, when Snap recorded a net loss that was twice the forecast.AdvertisementAnalysts were excited enough to mix their metaphors.Over all, this quarter was a major step in the right direction for the company and will be a tough pill to swallow for all the naysayers that threw in the white towel over the last few months, wrote Daniel Ives of GBH Insights in a note to investors.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.What went right? Snap, which makes nearly all of its money from advertising, made it much easier to buy ads through an automated system. That also expanded the list of potential ad buyers to medium-sized firms.AdvertisementFor the first time, revenue in Q4 from advertisers outside of Ad Ages Top 100 exceeded revenue from the Top 100 Advertisers, Imran Khan, Snaps chief strategy officer, said during the conference call.However fast Snap is growing, it still has the world to conquer. EMarketer, a research firm, estimated that the company will generate $1.47 billion in net worldwide ad revenue this year, up 90 percent over 2017. That will give Snap less than 1 percent of the worldwide digital ad market.Snap, based in Venice, Calif., may be benefiting from troubles at its much larger rival, Facebook. Under pressure from multiple sides, Facebook said last week it had made changes that reduced the hours its two billion users were spending on its pages.Snap shares closed Tuesday during regular trading at $14.06. Even with the spike from the earnings, shares are about $17, which was the initial offering price last March. In its early days, the Snap platform was dismissed as a fad for teens. That criticism has been tempered, but there are still many doubters.The good news is that people continue to use Snapchat as voraciously as they have in the past, said Rich Greenfield, media and tech analyst at the research firm BTIG. The question remains, how big a business is it?Mr. Greenfield said Snap was a communications company that was trying to develop an advertising business. Theyre trying to do something that hasnt been done, he said.Follow David Streitfeld on Twitter: @DavidStreitfeldA version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2018, on Page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: Snap Reverses Slide as User Growth and Revenue Jump.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.FEB. 7, 2018
David Granns true crime tale Killers of the Flower Moon: The Osage Murders and the Birth of the FBI is our February pick for the new PBS NewsHour-New York Times book club, Now Read This. Become a member of the book club by joining our Facebook group, or by signing up to our newsletter. Learn more about the book club here.Below are questions to help guide your discussions as you read the book over the next month. The questions are broken down by week, or divided into four parts to match your reading speed. If youre not on Facebook, you can also submit your own questions for Grann about the book here.Week One1. Before starting Killers of the Flower Moon, had you ever heard of the Osage murders? If so, how did you learn about them, and what did you know? Do you think this history should be taught in schools?2. Grann begins the book with a line describing the flowers spread over the Oklahoma hills where the Osage Indian nation resided — and how those flowers break and die in May. How does this line set the tone for, and introduce the subject of, the rest of the book?Advertisement3. The first character we meet is Mollie Burkhart, whose family becomes a main target of the Osage murders. How does Grann signal to us early on what the murderer may be after?Week Two4. Grann describes the discovery of oil on Osage land as a cursed blessing. How do you think its a blessing, and how is it a curse?5. How trustworthy do you find the different authorities that appear throughout the book to investigate the murders? Authorities such as William Hale, who Grann initially describes as a powerful local advocate for law and order, as well as the frontier lawmen, the brothers who conduct autopsies of the bodies, the local sheriff and, later, the F.B.I.?6. As you reach the halfway point of the book, who do you believe is responsible for the killings? Why?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Week Three7. Osage headrights — or the money received by members of the tribe, or by white guardians, from mineral royalties — soon become central to the book. Grann writes: Although some white guardians and administrators tried to act in the best interests of the tribe, countless others used the system to swindle the very people they were ostensibly protecting. Which sectors of society abused these guardianships? How was this able to happen?8. Why do you think the F.B.I. pursued the case of the Osage murders? What did you learn about the birth of the agency?Advertisement9. At this point in your reading, what do you think these murders say about Americas history with Native American people?Week Four10. As the F.B.I. solved the case, what was the mythology of the bureau that J. Edgar Hoover was trying to create? What parts of the agencys investigation of the Osage Murders were left out of the story?11. Grann begins the third section of the book with the words: So much is gone now, including oil fields and boomtowns. But he also writes that the Osage nation has recovered in the decades since the murders, and today is a vibrant nation thats 20,000 people strong. What do you think Grann wants us to take away from this?12. Grann ends the book with a quote from the Bible about Cain and Abel: The blood cries out from the ground. Why do you think he chose to close the book this way?Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JESS BIDGOOD, AMY HARMON, MITCH SMITH and MAYA SALAMFEB. 15, 2018
As gunshots echoed through the high school, a geography teacher, Scott Beigel, 35, paused to usher stragglers into his classroom before locking the door, only to be shot and killed himself as the shooter strode by.A parent, Jennifer Zeif, credited Mr. Beigel for saving her sons life. Her son, Matthew, 14, had been the last one to slip inside the class, just ahead of Mr. Beigel. Seconds later, the room filled with a smoky haze, Matthew said, and he turned to see his teacher lying near the door, pale and bleeding.Mr. Beigel could have passed Matthew up and gone in the classroom first, Ms. Zeif said. In that case, Matthew would have been the one in the doorway.On Thursday, as officials identified 17 people killed in the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., some of the victims, like Mr. Beigel, were remembered for having tried to spare others in the moments of chaos that unfolded inside the school.Aaron Feis, a popular football coach who was killed, also had tried to protect students, officials said. He was that kind of guy, said Jack Fris, a former football player at the school.Friends said they were not surprised that Mr. Beigel, a much-beloved figure at a Pennsylvania summer camp that he attended and later helped to run, had put his students safety above his own.Thousands of people at Camp Starlight looked up to Scott, said Grant Williams, 33, an emergency room nurse who worked with Mr. Beigel at the camp for several summers and was mourning long-distance with former camp counselors and campers on Thursday. He was someone you strive to be like, said another former Starlight counselor.At the Florida high school, teachers and students were among the dead. There was a soccer player, a student nicknamed Guac and a trombonist in the marching band. Eight of the victims were girls and young women; nine were boys and men. They ranged from 14 years old to 49.These are some of their stories.Alyssa Alhadeff, 14, had played competitive soccer since she was 3 years old. Like any athlete, she had her ups and downs. But when her club, Parkland, faced off against the rival team from Coral Springs on Feb. 13, she was at the top of her game.Her passing was on, her shooting was on, her decision-making was on, her mother, Lori Alhadeff, recalled. With her outgoing personality, Alyssa had a wide circle of friends at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. She placed first in a debate tournament, was taking Algebra 2 and Spanish 3, and was honing her skills as an attacking midfielder. The score at what was to be her last time on the soccer field was 1-0, Parkland.I was so proud of her, her mother said. I told her it was the best game of her life.Martin Duque Anguiano, a 14-year-old freshman, was a very funny kid, outgoing and sometimes really quiet, his brother, Miguel Duque, wrote on a GoFundMe page for funeral expenses.He was sweet and caring and loved by all his family, Miguel wrote. Most of all he was my baby brother.Nicholas Dworet, a promising high school swimmer, took a recruiting visit to the University of Indianapolis a few weeks ago. After a group dinner, he pulled the coach aside and said he wanted to compete there after he graduated this spring.He was an instant part of our family, said Jason Hite, the universitys swim coach. Mr. Hite said Nicholas, 17, had received an academic scholarship and planned to study physical therapy.University officials and a youth swim team in Florida said Nicholas was among those killed on Wednesday. A post on the Facebook page for TS Aquatics, the Florida club where he swam, described Nicholas as an amazing person who had been on a major upswing in his life.Nicholas had improved academically and athletically since starting high school, Mr. Hite said, and his mentors in Florida felt like the best was still to come for him.We were going to continue to groom him to be a future leader for our team, Mr. Hite said.Mr. Hite said he sent Nicholas a text message on Wednesday afternoon after hearing about the shooting at his school. He got no response.The saddest thing to me is how much life this kid had and how hard he had worked to change directions and change paths, Mr. Hite said. He was really going in the right direction and he had really created some opportunities for himself.At Stoneman Douglas, Mr. Feis was known to all — an assistant football coach and a security monitor. But he too had graduated from the school, played on the football team, and knew exactly what it was like to be a student in these halls.So he was seen as someone who looked out for students who got in trouble, those who were struggling, those without fathers at home. They said he was like another father, Mr. Feiss grandfather, Raymond, recalled. Hed go out of his way to help anybody.School officials said that Mr. Feis, 37, did the same on Wednesday. When there were signs of trouble, they said, he responded immediately to help. When Aaron Feis died, when he was killed — tragically, inhumanely — he did it protecting others; you can guarantee that, said Scott Israel, the sheriff of Broward County.I dont know when Aarons funeral is, Sheriff Israel said. I dont know how many adults are going to go, but youll get 2,000 kids there.In Parkland, Austin Lazar, a student, recalled his former coach as cheery and selfless. He always put everybody before himself.Mr. Feis was married, his family said, and had a daughter, Arielle.Jaime Guttenberg, 14, danced nonstop. Sometimes she went on for hours, her aunt, Ellyn Guttenberg, said. Jaime was warm, too, always taking Ms. Guttenbergs son, who has special needs, under her wing.Jaimes Facebook page, now memorialized, shows photos of her dancing, hanging out with friends, enjoying the beach and snuggling a dog.Her father, Fred Guttenberg, posted this on Facebook: I am broken as I write this trying to figure out how my family gets through this.Christopher Hixon, 49, the schools athletic director, was a well-known figure in Florida high school sports. One man, Jose Roman, posted on social media that Mr. Hixon was a great coach and an awesome motivator when he was a freshman athlete years ago.Mr. Hixon was named athletic director of the year in 2017 by the Broward County Athletics Association.Luke Hoyer, 15, spent last Christmas with his extended family in South Carolina, where he bowled, joined in a big holiday meal and swapped stories with relatives.A cousin, Grant Cox, who was at the Christmas gathering said the family had been told by the police that Luke, a freshman at Stoneman Douglas, was among those killed on Wednesday.Mr. Cox said Luke was a basketball player who was ambitious about the sport and admired N.B.A. stars like LeBron James and Stephen Curry.I know Luke loved his family, Mr. Cox said. I know he did. He had a huge heart.He was quiet, but a very happy individual, he said.Cara Loughran, 14, loved the beach. She adored her cousins. And she was an excellent student, her family said.We are absolutely gutted, by her death, her aunt, Lindsay Fontana, wrote in a Facebook post. While your thoughts are appreciated, I beg you to DO SOMETHING. This should not have happened to our niece Cara and it cannot happen to other peoples families.Gina Montalto, 14, was identified in local news accounts as a member of her schools winter color guard team.Andy Mroczek, who has worked as a choreographer at Stoneman Douglas, posted a tribute to Gina on Facebook. We lost a beautiful soul tonight, he wrote.People often spelled Joaquin Olivers first name wrong, so he went with a snappy nickname: Guac.He played basketball in the city recreational league — his jersey number was 2 — and he loved to write, filling a notebook with poetry, said Julien Decoste, a close friend of Joaquins and a fellow senior at Stoneman Douglas.Guac and I always wanted to graduate together and prove everyone wrong, that we would be successful together, Julien said.On Tuesday, Joaquin, 17, asked Julien to help out at his next basketball game, which was scheduled for Thursday.Ill be there, Julien texted his friend. Good looks brotha, Joaquin responded.On Wednesday, as he hid inside a closet during the shooting, Julien texted Joaquin to check in.You good? Julien texted. Bro I need you to answer me please.Alaina Petty, 14, had helped do cleanup work in Florida after Hurricane Irma, her family said in a statement, and she was an active member of a volunteer group with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Her selfless service brought peace and joy to those that had lost everything during the storm, the familys statement said. While we will not have the opportunity to watch her grow up and become the amazing woman we know she would become, we are keeping an eternal perspective.Alaina was also a member of the Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps, her family said.Meadow Pollack, 18, was a senior at the high school who was planning to go to Lynn University in Boca Raton, Fla., next year, according to her father, Andrew Pollack, who said his daughter was among the dead.She was just unbelievable, Mr. Pollack said. She was a very strong-willed young girl who had everything going for her.Mr. Pollack described his daughter as smart, beautiful and caring. She worked at her boyfriends familys motorcycle repair business.She just knew how to get what she wanted all the time, Mr. Pollack said. Nothing could ever stop her from what she wanted to achieve.Helena Ramsay, 17, was smart, kindhearted and thoughtful, her relative, Curtis Page, wrote on Facebook.Though she was somewhat reserved, she had a relentless motivation towards her academic studies, and her soft warm demeanor brought the best out in all who knew her, he said, later adding: She would have started college next year.Alex Schachter, 14, played the trombone in the Stoneman Douglas marching band, and was proud to have participated in winning a state championship last year. A freshman at the high school, he often played basketball with friends and was a sweetheart of a kid, his father, Max Schachter, said. Earlier this week, the two had discussed which classes Alex would take next semester.Mr. Schachter said Alex had loved his mother, who died when he was five years old. His older brother also attends Stoneman Douglas and survived the shooting. Alex just wanted to do well and make his parents happy, his father said.Carmen Schentrup, a 2018 National Merit Scholarship semifinalist, was the smartest 16-year-old that her cousin, Matt Brandow, had ever met, he said in a Facebook post.Im in a daze right now, he wrote.Peter Wang, 15, a freshman, helped his cousin, Aaron Chen, adjust when he settled in Florida.He was always so nice and so generous, Aaron, 16, said, adding that even though Peter was younger he had worked to be sure Aaron didnt get bullied when he first arrived.Peter was last seen in his gray uniform for the Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps, or J.R.O.T.C., on Wednesday. On Thursday, Aaron and another cousin said the authorities had informed the family that Peter was among those killed in the shooting.He was the kid in school who would be friends with anyone, said the other cousin, Lin Chen, 24. He didnt care about popularity.Audra D.S. Burch and Julie Turkewitz contributed reporting from Parkland, Fla.; Maggie Astor and Susan C. Beachy from New York; and Kitty Bennett from St. Petersburg, Fla.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KATIE ROGERS and MATTHEW ROSENBERGFEB. 2, 2018
WASHINGTON — Kashyap Patel is a lawyer who has sometimes run afoul of the rules.As a lawyer in Florida, Mr. Patel, 37, entered and then dropped out of a charity bachelor auction featuring some colleagues after a blogger pointed out that his license to practice in the state appeared out of date. In 2016, as a counterterrorism prosecutor for the Justice Department, he was berated by a federal judge who then issued an Order on Ineptitude directed at the entire agency. And over the summer, in a trip arranged outside official channels, he traveled to London, where he tried unsuccessfully to meet with Christopher Steele, the author of the dossier that purported to details links between the Trump campaign and Russia, according to multiple people with knowledge of the trip.After less than a year as a Republican staff member on the House Intelligence Committee, Mr. Patel has found himself in the middle of another controversy. According to congressional sources, he is the primary author of the politically charged memo, released on Friday by the committee chairman, Representative Devin Nunes, over the opposition of the F.B.I. and the intelligence community, that accuses federal officials of bias against President Trump.Democrats, led by Representative Adam B. Schiff, the ranking minority member on the committee, were scathing in their criticism of both the report and the decision to release it to the public.The Presidents decision to publicly release a misleading memo attacking DOJ & FBI is a transparent attempt to discredit these institutions and undermine Muellers probe, Mr. Schiff said on Twitter on Friday, referring to Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russias involvement in the 2016 presidential election.AdvertisementDamon Nelson, the committees staff director, said in an emailed statement that no single member was responsible for the memo and that its creation was a team effort that involved investigators who had access to source material.AdvertisementThe clamor to identify an author is indicative of an alarming trend by opponents of our investigation, Mr. Nelson said, which is to promote spurious allegations against committee embers and staff. They will not impact the committees focus and commitment to continue this investigation.But he praised Mr. Patel, saying, We value Kashs dedication and his contributions to the committees oversight efforts.Mr. Patel, who did not respond to a request for comment for this article, grew up in Garden City, N.Y., and graduated from the University of Richmond in 2002. He earned a certificate in international law from the University College London Faculty of Laws, according to his Facebook page, and graduated from Pace Universitys law school in 2005.He spent part of his career in the Miami area as a federal public defender in Florida before surprising his co-workers there by taking a job at the Justice Department in 2014, according to his Facebook profile.In early 2016, during a court appearance in Houston, Mr. Patel found himself in the cross hairs of Judge Lynn N. Hughes of Federal District Court, who became incensed that Mr. Patel had used the internet credentials of another lawyer to give notice that he would be involved in a terrorism case, and then did not like how he was dressed.The last thing I need here, Mr. Patel, the judge said, according to a transcript of the hearing, is a bureaucrat who flies down here at great expense and causes trouble rather than actually is a productive member of the team.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After working on counterterrorism cases at the Justice Department, Mr. Patel joined the Intelligence Committee last spring as a senior staff member, and has been at the forefront of Mr. Nuness inquiry into whether the F.B.I. and the Justice Department abused the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.Over the summer, Mr. Nunes dispatched Mr. Patel and another member of the committees Republican staff to London, where they showed up unannounced at the offices of Mr. Steele, a former British intelligence official.AdvertisementTold Mr. Steele was not there, Mr. Patel and Douglas E. Presley, a professional staff member, managed to track him down at the offices of his lawyers. There, they said they were seeking only to establish contact with Mr. Steele, but were rebuffed and left without meeting him, according to two people with knowledge of the encounter.A senior official for the Republican majority on the Intelligence Committee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about the matter, said the purpose of the visit had been to make contact with Mr. Steeles lawyers, not Mr. Steele. Still, the visit was highly unusual and appeared to violate protocol, because they were trying to meet with Mr. Steele outside official channels.Ordinarily, such a visit would be coordinated through lawyers, conducted with knowledge of the House Democrats, who were not informed and the American Embassy.In the months since, Mr. Patel has apparently forged connections at the White House. In November, he posted a series of photos to Facebook of him and several friends wearing matching shirts at the White House bowling alley. The Dons hit the lanes at 1600 Pennsylvania, Mr. Patel wrote under the photos.Doris Burke contributed research.A version of this article appears in print on February 3, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: A Lawyer No Stranger To Quarrels.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiSAN FRANCISCO — Quarter after quarter, investors have become accustomed to Alphabets revenue and profit growing at a pace that seems to defy gravity for a company well past its start-up years.But when people get used to near perfection, then pretty good becomes a disappointment.Alphabet, Googles parent company, fell short of Wall Street expectations for its fourth-quarter profit, sending the stock down in after-hours trading. Its profits were weighed down by an increase in traffic acquisition costs — the fees Google pays companies like Apple to ensure that its search engine is the default option when people open a browser on the iPhone.On Thursday, Alphabet attributed the increase in costs to a rising number of people doing searches on smartphones. Those queries require the company to pay more to reserve screen real estate compared to searches on desktop computers.Ruth Porat, Alphabets chief financial officer, said the company expects those traffic acquisition costs will continue to climb. She framed the increased expense as a positive, a sign that Alphabet was establishing an important beachhead on smartphones.Were very pleased to have a strong position in a rapidly growing market, said Ms. Porat. Shares of Alphabet initially fell as much as 5 percent in after-hours trading before settling in at about a 2 percent decline.Alphabet said Googles traffic acquisition costs in the quarter increased 33 percent from a year earlier, to $6.45 billion. Last year, Bernstein Research estimated that Google would pay about $3 billion to Apple in 2017 to remain the default search option on Apples mobile devices.Alphabet said it also incurred a $9.9 billion charge for the repatriation of foreign earnings following the recent changes in the tax code. As of September, Google held about 60 percent of its $100 billion in cash abroad. Many companies are paying a hefty tax bill as a result of bringing foreign earnings back to the United States.Excluding the tax charge, Alphabet said its earnings per share was $9.70, compared with Wall Streets expectations for $9.98. Revenue grew 24 percent to $32.32 billion.The results underscored the strength of Googles position in digital advertising, a market it dominates with Facebook. In the fourth quarter, users clicked on 48 percent more ads on Google sites — including search and YouTube — than a year earlier.In 2017, two-thirds of every ad dollar spent on the internet went through Facebooks and Googles advertising systems, according to research from Goldman Sachs. Whats more, Goldman Sachs estimated that 87 percent of the additional spending in digital advertising this year will funnel through these two companies.Even as Facebook made changes to what it shows users inside its News Feed, which it expected would reduce the amount of time users spend on the social network, the company reported on Wednesday a 47 percent increase in revenue in the fourth quarter from a year earlier.Google is particularly well positioned with YouTube, despite concerns from marketers about their advertisements possibly appearing next to inappropriate or extremist content. Young people are spending more time on YouTube and shunning traditional television broadcasts. Google said more than 1.5 billion people come to YouTube every month to watch videos.Alphabet also announced that John Hennessy, the former Stanford University president and a board member since 2004, had been appointed the companys new chairman. Eric Schmidt stepped down as executive chairman in December. At the time, Alphabet had said it planned to appoint a nonexecutive chairman.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi on Twittter: @daiwakaAdvertisementBy SOPAN DEBFEB. 13, 2018
Hundreds of readers weighed in on the Obama portraits on our site and on Facebook. Read our roundup of comments.Typically, an official presidential portrait unveiling at National Portrait Gallery might be a ho-hum affair, even with the traditional pomp and circumstance. Not so for former President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama on Monday.The paintings — Mr. Obamas by Kehinde Wiley and Mrs. Obamas by Amy Sherald — elicited strong reactions for their striking use of colors and the backgrounds in which the Obamas were set.
            Can we talk about how stunningly powerful it is to see a black man in a garden the way Kehinde Wiley painted Barack Obama?! It dismantles so much and creates new visions of masculinity that black men rarely have the public permission to explore. pic.twitter.com/pwycHtbbDX 
            Monday morning joy as portraits of President and First Lady Obama are revealed by artists Amy Sherald and Kehinde Wiley. Reminds me to hope. #ObamaPortraits pic.twitter.com/6r4NtH0rxx They are not in an office, sitting at a desk or standing in front of a row of books. The background for Mr. Obamas painting is not a dark, solid color, but rather a lush bed of bright green leaves, with his chair almost suspended in midair. Mrs. Obama is painted against a bright-blue background, and she is wearing a vibrant dress.AdvertisementIt was a strikingly different approach by the two artists, according to the Timess co-chief art critic Holland Cotter. Mr. Wiley told our art reporter Robin Pogrebin that he and Mr. Obama decided very quickly that we were just going to strike out a path of our own. The artists themselves, both African-American, have a history of tackling race issues — surely adding to the context with each the paintings were completed.Now, we want to hear your thoughts. What did the portraits mean to you, particularly if you are African-American or of African descent? Did their aesthetic remind you of other artwork and what did you think of Mr. Wiley and Ms. Sheralds approach to bucking tradition? What do you think the artists were trying to convey — and do you think they were successful? Did they capture the Obamas and their legacy accurately?AdvertisementPost your answers in the comment section. We may use some of the responses in an upcoming article.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MEHER AHMADJAN. 28, 2018
KARACHI, Pakistan — An elite climbing team rescued a French mountain climber on Sunday from the treacherous Himalayan peak known as Killer Mountain, in Pakistans northeast, but her Polish climbing partner remains in peril after efforts to reach him were at least temporarily abandoned.The climbers, Elisabeth Revol and Tomek Mackiewicz, began their ascent of Nanga Parbat, the ninth-highest mountain in the world, on Jan. 20. The two are believed to have reached the summit, at an altitude of 8,126 meters, or 26,600 feet, which would make them only the second team to do so during the notoriously harsh winter season.During their descent, Mr. Mackiewicz is said to have had acute mountain sickness, caused by the lack of oxygen in the lower air pressure that exists at higher altitudes, as well as snow blindness and frostbite.Ms. Revol continued down the mountain alone and called for help from a satellite phone, and she was eventually met by two members of a four-person rescue team flown to the mountains base camp on Saturday. She had frostbite on her hands and feet, according to Ludovic Giambiasi, a friend who posted updates on Facebook, and she was taken to Islamabad, the capital, later in the day and received medical attention.AdvertisementThe extreme weather conditions — winds of more than 50 miles (80 kilometers) an hour and a wind chill nearing minus 80 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 62 degrees Celsius) — forced the rescue team to postpone any plans to ascend further to search for Mr. Mackiewicz.AdvertisementThe rescue for Tomasz is unfortunately not possible — because of the weather and altitude it would put the life of rescuers in extreme danger, Mr. Giambiasi wrote.Its a terrible and painful decision, he added. All our thoughts go out to Tomeks family and friends. We are crying.Estimates of the number of people who have died trying to climb Nanga Parbat vary, but it is believed to be more than 60. The summit is considered to be among the most difficult to climb in the world, earning it its intimidating nickname.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The rescue mission, carried out by a team of private climbers, was delayed in part because the Pakistani military declined to arrange for a helicopter until funds for its operation were guaranteed, as is common practice for complicated rescue missions in the countrys northern mountains.The rule for funding is that whoever wants a recovery mission, before we can even leave, must deposit a certain amount of funding, said Muhammad Ehtasham Amir, the general manager of charter services at Askari Aviation, a wing of the Pakistani military. Mr. Amir declined to specify the amount of the deposit.Once sufficient funds were raised, Askari Aviation took the four mountaineers to Nanga Parbats base camp on Friday at the request of the Polish Embassy in Islamabad, according to Mr. Amir.A GoFundMe page for the rescue mission appeared within hours of Ms. Revols call for help, and as of Sunday evening, a little more than 100,000 euros, or about $125,000, had been raised. The organizers hope to raise €150,000. A desperate plea was also posted on Mr. Mackiewiczs Facebook page on Friday, calling for funds so that a military helicopter could try to locate the climbers from the air and arrange transportation for the rescue teams.This was Mr. Mackiewiczs seventh attempt at scaling Nanga Parbat, after winter expeditions the previous years on the same mountain, and his third on Nanga Parbat with Ms. Revol.AdvertisementTomeks love for Nanga Parbat almost verges on mania, Stefan Nestler, who covers adventure sports, wrote in November.A version of this article appears in print on January 29, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Climber Saved in Himalayas, But Partner Is Still Missing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKYJAN. 27, 2018
MOSCOW — A Moscow movie theater that bucked an official ban on showing The Death of Stalin, a British black comedy about the Soviet dictators death, has halted screenings after a police raid on Friday.In a Facebook post, Pioner Cinema wrote that the 2017 film, by the director Armando Iannucci, which had been playing to sold-out crowds, had been pulled as of Saturday due to circumstances beyond our control and directed further queries to Russias Ministry of Culture, which had quashed it. The post was accompanied by an image of graffiti reading Free Speech Conditions Apply by a well-known street artist.Alexander Mamut, a billionaire known for cutting-edge cultural projects, owns the art house cinema as well as two major Russian movie theater chains, leading to speculation that The Death of Stalin standoff indicates conflict among Russias elites.Ola Cichowlas, an AFP journalist, tweeted photographs of the raid. As of Saturday, it was not clear which law enforcement agency was behind it. An official of the Moscow branch of the Investigative Committee, Russias equivalent of the F.B.I., told the Tass news agency, that it had nothing to do with the raid.AdvertisementVladimir Medinsky, Russias culture minister, took to Twitter to oppose the film. Around the time of the Friday raid he posted angry comments by the daughter of Marshal Georgy Zhukov, the storied Soviet World War II commander who is depicted in the film as a member of Stalins bumbling entourage jockeying for power after his death.AdvertisementThis is a revolting film and a mockery of our history, our heroes, in particular of my father, Maria Zhukova told the Russian Military Historical Society, an organization that promotes Mr. Medinskys ideological causes. The way in which all Soviet people are depicted is quite simply offensive. First of all for the descendants of those depicted in it and likewise for war veterans.Pioner Cinema is near Victory Park, Moscows main World War II monument.The culture ministry revoked the distribution license for The Death of Stalin on Tuesday and two days later, just as Pioner started screenings, issued a statement saying that violators could face fines or shutdowns of up to 90 days. It also noted that cultural figures who had written a letter to Mr. Medinsky calling for the films ban had found that it contains information that can be evaluated as extremist, directed toward abasing the dignity of Russian (Soviet) people.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Extremism has been used in Russia in recent years as a blanket charge applied both against those who are considered terrorists and those who have crossed ideological lines.Several people who purportedly signed the letter have denied doing so in recent days, but one actual signer, Yelena Drapeko, an actress turned outspoken parliamentarian, upped the ante on Wednesday, calling for the formation of a council on morality to serve as a cultural watchdog. Her words stoked fears about creeping Stalinism and censorship in Russia.Perhaps the quirkiest claim against the film came from Stalins great-grandson, Jacob Jugashvili, who wrote on Facebook that the creators of The Death of Stalin are unlikely to make a comedy called TheDeath of Kim Il Sung, because North Korea, unlike Russia, is a strong country that will not stand for it.The Death of Stalin appeared only because WE allowed them to do this, wrote Mr. Jugashvili.On Saturday, Pioner Cinema was silent as a tomb, showing Michael Hanekes dismal Happy End. Paddington 2, which faced its own travails recently when its release was pushed back by the Culture Ministry to make way for Going Vertical, a patriotic basketball film, was also on the days schedule.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
City Kitchen By                     
 DAVID TANIS
 
FEB. 23, 2018
What kind of meatballs are these? Its a fair question: Meatballs come in countless variations. You could make them every week for a year, never repeating a recipe. It is a culinary common thread that runs through albondigas, polpettini, boulettes, kofte — all spherical morsels of finely chopped meat.The origin of the meatball is hardly a mystery. When an animal is butchered, there are a limited number of primal cuts, the tender parts that are turned into chops, steaks and roasts. The rest of the beast is used for stewing or put through the meat grinder to become burgers, sausages, meatloaf or meatballs. For many cooks and diners, the bite-size meatball is the most appealing.All meatballs begin the same way. Freshly ground meat is mixed with seasonings and a bit of bread or rice before being rolled into balls. (Nearly all recipes advise forming them with wet hands.) They are then browned on the stovetop or in the oven, to be eaten as is, simmered in a sauce or added to a soup.This recipe, made with ground lamb, has a Turkish feel, spiced with cumin, coriander, cinnamon and a touch of cayenne. The meatballs are browned in olive oil — though flattening them into patties to be griddled or grilled would be another good choice — and served with a traditional yogurt sauce.Some cooks braise their meatballs after browning, which renders them exceedingly moist, soft and tender. In this rendition, I like them straight out of the frying pan, crisp on the outside and juicy inside.AdvertisementThe warm, tart yogurt sauce adds tang and richness, especially when made with whole-milk yogurt. It is prepared at the last minute, just before serving. A beaten egg and a little cornstarch are added to prevent the yogurt from curdling when heated.AdvertisementDont bathe them in the sauce. Instead, pile the meatballs on a platter and pour the sauce over them. For more flavor and visual appeal, add crumbled feta, and sprinkle with sour sumac powder and crushed red-pepper flakes. (Turkish Aleppo pepper is delicious and not too spicy. Korean red-pepper flakes are a good substitute.)To finish, give it all a shower of chopped mint, cilantro and dill. Pinches of bright yellow turmeric to finish make the dish a showstopper.Recipe: Spiced Lamb Meatballs With Yogurt and HerbsFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Meatballs With a Bounce of Turkish Zeal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE NEW YORK TIMESFEB. 12, 2018
Leading innovators, investors and policymakers offered their visions for artificial intelligence at the New York Times's New Work Summit conference.In Phoenix, cars are self-navigating the streets. In many homes, people are barking commands at tiny machines, with the machines responding. On our smartphones, apps can now recognize faces in photos and translate from one language to another.Artificial intelligence is here — and its bringing new possibilities, while also raising questions. Do these gadgets and services really behave as advertised? How will they evolve in the years ahead? How quickly will they overhaul the way we live and change the way we do business?The Times is exploring these matters this week at our annual New Work Summit, featuring technology executives, A.I. researchers, investors and others. Here are some of the key moments coming out of the conference, plus a rundown of some of our recent A.I. stories. — Cade MetzA month after the Chinese electronics giant Huawei suffered a big setback in its quest to sell its high-end smartphones to Americans, the companys chief for consumer devices, Richard Yu, said he was still optimistic about Huaweis prospects in the United States.AdvertisementWe have won global consumers trust, in over 170 countries, Mr. Yu said at the New Work Summit. We very strictly protect consumers privacy.AdvertisementHuawei is the worlds third-largest seller of smartphones and one of the planets biggest suppliers of telecommunications equipment. But it has struggled for years to break into the United States.A 2012 congressional report said that Huaweis network gear could be used by Beijing to spy on Americans, effectively cutting the company off from big buyers in the United States. In January, after lawmakers reiterated those concerns in a letter to the Federal Communications Commission, AT&T and Verizon walked away from deals to sell Huaweis latest phones.At the conference on Tuesday, Mr. Yu said that Huawei had no ties to the Chinese government. We are a globalized company, just headquartered in China, he said. We are not part of any government. We have to be a company that is independent from every country.Huawei would not be able to do business in so many places around the world without that independence, he said. If we do something for one government, we will lose the trust of all governments. — Raymond ZhongMike Schroepfer, Facebooks chief technology officer, offered a glimpse of how the social network is applying artificial intelligence to ward off bad actors and keep its platform free of toxicity.Calling the fight against rules violators a cat and mouse game, Mr. Schroepfer said at the New Work Summit on Tuesday that Facebooks A.I. efforts had succeeded at certain types of content moderation, such as image classifier algorithms that find and automatically remove nude photos and videos.Now on Facebook, he said, the vast majority of nudity and pornography reporting is automatic.But what about using A.I. to curb the spread of fake news? Facebooks director of artificial intelligence, Yann LeCun, said in 2016 that machine learning algorithms would one day be able to weed out false news on Facebook.AdvertisementBut the company has since added thousands of human content moderators and struck partnerships with human fact-checking organizations. Mr. Schroepfer implied Facebook has learned that A.I. alone would not do the trick, given the sophistication of bad actors who find ways around the platforms filters.Mr. Schroepfer also said that human judgment would be required in certain situations, like a comment (nice jacket) that could be either an earnest compliment or a sarcastic insult, depending on the context. And when it comes to some of Facebooks thornier problems, like trying to enforce consistent hate speech policies, human intervention may always be necessary.Whenever you are debating what your policy is, youre unlikely to build an A.I. that works well for that, he said. — Kevin RooseMichael Kratsios, a deputy chief technology officer at the White House, said at the New Work Summit on Tuesday that regulators should get out of the way of advances in emerging technologies.He cited progress toward a repeal of some regulations on commercial drones, such as rules prohibiting them from flying at night.For us, its key to get ahead of those regulatory hurdles, said Mr. Kratsios, who previously worked as chief of staff to Peter Thiel, the libertarian venture capitalist. These regulations, he said, are putting us at a disadvantage.Unlike some experts who believe China is poised to dominate the A.I. age, Mr. Kratsios said he wasnt worried about overseas competition. The United States, he said, has a 30-year head start in A.I. development.And despite the White Houses reputation for chaos and tumult, he maintained that it was a great place to work. — Kevin RooseMarc Benioff, the chief executive of Salesforce, blasted companies like Facebook on Tuesday for addicting children to their products and renewed his calls for more government regulation of the tech industry.AdvertisementMr. Benioff compared a new Facebook Messenger product for children to candy cigarettes, which he used to pretend to smoke as a boy.What do you think they were trying to get us to do with those? Mr. Benioff asked onstage at the New Work Summit. I dont think this is any different now. Theyre focused on the addictive nature of these user interfaces. At some point, we have to say, Hold on.Silicon Valley is nearing the point where moral lines will have to be drawn by the government since the industry is not regulating itself and does not seem to be guided by a strong hand of ethics, he said.There is a crisis of trust, he added, that will become a tidal wave among American consumers who are growing wary of tech giants.Im trying to protect our industry, said Mr. Benioff, whose company sells access to business software over the internet. If companies arent able to regulate themselves, they should have external regulations.One of the solutions he suggested was to move decision-making away from algorithms and back toward humans. He cited Facebooks decision to disband its trending news curation team as an example.Facebook had a team promoting, sorting and focusing stories, 100 curators that they removed and put an algorithm in their place, and that started the downward spiral that theyre in today, Mr. Benioff said.AdvertisementHe also spoke about the recent ban on kegs of beer at Salesforce offices after he recently stumbled across one while visiting a company he had acquired.I view alcohol as a drug, he said. The keg is not there anymore — well, actually who knows, but I hope its not. I took a photo of the keg and put it on our social network and said, This is not who we are. — Nellie BowlesFei-Fei Li, a chief scientist at Google and a Stanford professor, has called on technologists to take a more human centered approach to the creation of artificial intelligence. On Tuesday at the New Work Summit, Ms. Li said that researchers must work to ensure that A.I. embodied human qualities and that it would ultimately operate alongside humans, not replace them.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I often tell my students not to be misled by the name artificial intelligence — there is nothing artificial about it, she said. A.I. is made by humans, intended to behave by humans and, ultimately, to impact humans lives and human society.At Stanford, Ms. Li was instrumental in the recent rise of computer vision systems that can recognize people and objects entirely on their own. At Google, she is working to package and sell these and other systems as cloud computing services, delivering the latest A.I. technology to a wide range of businesses.But she said that as Google and other internet giants pushed these techniques forward, academia and the government must help ensure that A.I. evolved into something that enhanced our humanity, created as many jobs as it replaced and operated in safe and predictable ways.In particular, Ms. Li said, academic institutions can help ensure that computer scientists work alongside social scientists in building this new breed of technology.A.I. has outgrown its origin in computer science, she said.Ultimately, said Ms. Li, who was born in China, A.I. reflects the people who build it more than other technologies do. For that reason and others, she said, A.I. researchers must work in a way that spans not only many industries but many cultures as well.AdvertisementI really believe there are no borders for science, she said. — Cade MetzTuesdays first speaker at the New Work Summit was Kai-Fu Lee, who used to lead Google in China and knows a thing or two about American tech giants in China. His prognosis about whether companies like Facebook will ever be able to crack the worlds largest internet market?The American products are simply uncompetitive in the China market, said Mr. Lee, who is now chief executive of Sinovation Ventures, a venture capital firm focused on Chinese technology. Even if internet titans from the United States could operate in China, he said, the local competition means they would have a hard time thriving.Messenger is a much worse product than WeChat, he said, referring to Facebooks messaging app and Tencents ubiquitous app for chatting, social networking, making payments and other tasks.Amazon in China is substantially worse than Taobao, JD and Tmall, he said, referring to three leading Chinese e-commerce sites. And, he said, Apple Pay is much narrower and much harder to use than WeChat or Alipay.Mr. Lee sees other issues that augur against a big Facebook or Google renaissance in China. Multinational companies tend not to hire local managers to lead their China operations. Theyre not concerned about winning in the local market, he said.Also, young Chinese these days would rather work for national champions like Alibaba or Tencent. Pitted against Chinese start-ups and big companies, where the hours tend to be long and the work culture cutthroat, the leading lights of American tech would get get eaten for lunch. — Raymond ZhongLast year, the Chinese government unveiled a plan to become the world leader in artificial intelligence by 2030, vowing to create a domestic industry worth $150 billion. This manifesto read like a challenge to the United States, and in many ways it echoed policies laid down by the Obama administration in 2016.But as China pushes ahead in this area, many experts are concerned that the Trump administration is not doing enough to keep the United States ahead in the future. Although the big United States internet giants are leading the A.I. race, these experts believe the country as a whole could fall behind if does not do more to nurture research inside universities and government labs. — Cade MetzAdvertisementJohn Krafcik, chief executive of the self-driving car company Waymo, took the stage at the New Work Summit on Monday night and spoke out for the first time since his company reached a settlement last week with Uber in a lawsuit over trade secrets that riveted Silicon Valley.We were really happy with the outcome that we engineered, Mr. Krafcik said. We spent a lot of time in that case talking about the hardware, but the extra benefit we got from that suit was the ability to understand and ensure that Uber wasnt using any of our software.He called the software Waymos secret sauce.Waymo and Uber spent only four days at trial last week before settling, with Uber agreeing to provide Waymo 0.34 percent of its stock, worth about $245 million. The dispute between the companies started in 2016 when Uber bought Otto, a start-up founded by Anthony Levandowski, an early member of Googles self-driving car program. Waymo, which was spun out of Google, accused Mr. Levandowski of stealing technology before leaving and accused Uber of using the misappropriated knowledge.This was a really special case with a really special set of circumstances, Mr. Krafcik said. For us, this was always about, and really just about, the fact that we needed to ensure Uber wasnt using our trade secrets. He added that he did not foresee Waymo suing other former employees.Mr. Krafcik also discussed how Waymo was looking to start a ride-hailing service, which it is testing in Phoenix with thousands of driverless Pacifica minivans.We have a plan to move from city to city, he said. Were not going to be launching with a 25 mile-per-hour product. Were talking about a full-speed service that will serve a very large geographic area with essentially unlimited pickup and drop-off points. — Nellie BowlesJeff Wilke, Amazons chief executive of its consumer business, which includes its e-commerce operations, doesnt often make public appearances. But on Monday night, he joined the New Work Summit to discuss the internet retailers move into artificial intelligence.His key message: A.I. is everywhere, but that doesnt mean it will take our jobs.If you look at the evolution of technology over the course of decades, tech doesnt eliminate work; it changes work, Mr. Wilke said.He said that over the last five years, since Amazon bought a robot maker called Kiva Systems, it had built 100,000 of the robots — and also hired 300,000 people. We still need human judgment, he said.AdvertisementAmazon has also embedded A.I. throughout the company, he added, with technologists working together with people who run businesses. The company is using machine learning and deep learnings, which are different flavors of A.I., to upgrade internal algorithms, he said.As to how Amazon might use A.I. at Whole Foods, the grocery store chain that it said it would acquire last year, Mr. Wilke said little. When asked whether Amazon would integrate its cashier-less and A.I.-driven convenience store concept, called Amazon Go, with Whole Foods, he said, I dont foresee the format of Whole Foods changing very much. — Pui-Wing TamAs A.I. technology barrels ahead in Silicon Valley, its also starting to pick up steam as a political issue in Washington.Over the weekend, I wrote about Andrew Yang, a former tech executive who has decided to run for president in 2020 as a Democrat on a beware the robots platform. He thinks that with innovations like self-driving cars and grocery stores without cashiers just around the corner, were about to move into a frightening new era of mass unemployment and social unrest.So hes proposing a universal basic income plan called the Freedom Dividend, which would give every American adult $1,000 a month to guarantee them a minimum standard of living while they retrain themselves for new kinds of work.Mr. Yangs campaign is a long shot, and there are significant hurdles to making universal basic income politically feasible. But the conversation about automations social and economic consequences is long overdue. Even if he doesnt win the election, Mr. Yang may have hit on the next big political wedge issue. — Kevin RooseIn modern artificial intelligence, data rules. A.I. software is only as smart as the data used to train it, as Steve Lohr recently wrote, and that means that some of the biases in the real world can seep into A.I.If there are many more white men than black women in the system, for example, it will be worse at identifying the black women. That appears to be the case with some popular commercial facial recognition software.Joy Buolamwini, a researcher at the M.I.T. Media Lab, found that the software can now tell if a white man in a photograph is male or female 99 percent of the time. But for darker skinned women, it is wrong nearly 35 percent of the time. — Joseph PlambeckWere interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAMIEN CAVEFEB. 21, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.______I try to mix things up with this newsletter, to, you know, keep it fresh.So this week, its a new format — the weeks New York Times Australia stories, boiled down to their most memorable quotes and excerpts.Visit our Facebook group for more discussion. And keep scrolling for more Times stories and a recommendation.______Hes the first serious, heavy-hitting U.S. ambassadorial appointment here since Marshall Green came in 1973. Thats a sign of how seriously Washington regards Australia and its broader Asia strategy.Advertisement— James Curran, a history professor at the University of Sydney, on Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., President Trumps pick for ambassador to Australia. Mr. Trump meets with Malcolm Turnbull on Friday.Advertisement[READ: A Reset, of Sorts, for the United States and Australia]______The problem is they think Sydney is Beijing. Theyre doing more and more watching and interfering. And theyre getting better at it.— Paul Lin, a businessman from Taiwan who moved to Australia in 1990, referring to the Chinese government and its loyalists.[READ: In Australia, Staying Loyal to Taiwan Can Mean Losing a Job]______Everyone fits right in at the New Sydney, and it gives me hope for the future of the great Australian pub. Which is saying something, because that future is far from certain.— Besha Rodell, our AMAZING restaurant critic.[READ: The New Sydney Hotel Updates the Australian Pub, but Still Plays the Hits]______When liberals criticize WikiLeaks, theyre not looking at the bigger picture. WikiLeaks has actually given birth to this idea that this information should come out, that we should hold people to account. When you look at something like the #MeToo campaign, its a similar idea — the system was broken. WikiLeaks has encouraged a process.— Melinda Taylor, Brisbane-born lawyer at The Hague, who represents Julian Assange.[READ: A Defender of Assange Says Shes Fighting for All]What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.______I believe in magic. Not because Ive seen it, but because Ive felt it.Nestled in the rocks between many beaches on the East Coast of New South Wales lie mermaid pools, fairly narrow but deep rock pools on the oceans edge filled with seaweed and coral and fish.AdvertisementTheyre not particularly unique features of an Australian beach, but these ones in particular are special.These ones are mine.— Ella Sangster, 16, a New York Times reader and contributor.[READ: Australia Diary: I Believe in Magic]______What does it take to go from being a climate change skeptic to a believer?Livia Albeck-Ripka, an Australian reporting fellow with The New York Times climate desk, spoke to dozens of Americans about why their attitudes changed, pulling out the most telling examples — including a preacher who likened his shift to a religious conversion, guilt included.Contribute your own stories of evolving views on climate change in our Facebook group.______Im on a mission in 2018 to get control over technology so it doesnt keep control of me — and this guide was more helpful than Id expected.I am now one of those dorks with a rubber band around my iPhone.______Our friends at The Intepreter crunched some numbers and scrutinized common claims about the cause of mass shootings.Australia gets cited for its gun control shift, but this factoid stayed with me: Yemen has the worlds second-highest rate of gun ownership after the United States. And adjusted for population, only Yemen has a higher rate of mass shootings among countries with more than 10 million people.______• Thomas Friedman argues, in a column that was among our most-read items all week: The biggest threat to the integrity of our democracy today is in the Oval Office.• Jennifer Finley Boylan asks: What was the book that changed your life? How old were you when you read it? You might not love it now.Advertisement• Leta Hong Fincher writes about Chinas push for educated women to have more children: People arent responding to the new policy as the government had hoped. Many Han women, for example, are pushing back against the governments singles-shaming and its continued attempt at reproductive social engineering.______There were a lot more black people in that movie than in other movies, my 9-year-old son said after we saw Black Panther together last weekend.And thats why its this weeks recommendation.Its not just a thrill ride of an Marvel action movie, complete with stunning visuals, a compelling villain and a playful sibling rivalry. Its also a teaching tool about representation in media — a reminder to think more deeply about the stories we see and dont see because of how cultural production continues to work, not just in the United States, but in Australia too.And after you see it, for a better understanding of what the movie means and why there is so much excitement about it, check out this story from The New York Times Magazine: Why Black Panther Is a Defining Moment for Black America.Damien Cave is the new Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. Hes covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy David BrooksThis has been an emotional week. We greet tragedies like the school shooting in Florida with shock, sadness, mourning and grief that turns into indignation and rage. The anger inevitably gets directed at the N.R.A., those who support gun rights, and the politicians who refuse to do anything while children die.Many of us walked this emotional path. But we may end up doing more harm than good. If theres one thing weve learned, it is that guns have become a cultural flash point in a nation that is unequal and divided. The people who defend gun rights believe that snobbish elites look down on their morals and want to destroy their culture. If we end up telling such people that they and their guns are despicable, they will just despise us back and dig in their heels.So if you want to stop school shootings its not enough just to vent and march. Its necessary to let people from Red America lead the way, and to show respect to gun owners at all points. There has to be trust and respect first. Then we can strike a compromise on guns as guns, and not some sacred cross in the culture war.So Ive been thinking about a group thats in the trust and respect business. Better Angels is a nonprofit led by David Lapp, David Blankenhorn and a prominent family therapist, Bill Doherty. The team members travel from town to town finding members of the Red and Blue Tribes and bringing them together for long, humbling conversations.My Times colleague April Lawson has gotten involved with Better Angels and has been reporting back on its techniques.One of the most successful parts of the structured conversations is built around stereotypes. Doherty, the head moderator, asks the people at each gathering to name five major stereotypes that the other side throws at them. The Republicans invariably list racist first, followed by, say, uncaring, uneducated, misogynistic and science deniers.In a session Lawson attended, a Trump supporter acknowledged that the G.O.P. has had a spotty record on racial matters, but its important to him that Blues know thats not why he holds his opinions.Doherty says that the Reds feel shamed by the Blues to a much greater degree than the Blues realize. Reds are very reluctant to enter into a conversation with Blues, for fear of further shaming, but they often come to the table when they are told that this will be a chance to de-monsterize themselves.At that session one Blue said she was really grateful to hear a Red acknowledge the Republican history on race. When Blues are asked about the stereotypes thrown at them, they tend to list against religion and morality, unpatriotic and against personal responsibility among their responses. They, too, relish the chance to clear the air.After the stereotypes are discussed, the room feels different. As one Red in Ohio told Lawson, I think we are all pretty clear on one thing: Dont tell us who we are and what we think. Another Red was moved almost to tears by the damage categories do. Were not just cookie-cutter people; were individuals. Just because you dont like something, you dont have to ridicule it — you probably dont understand it, she said. When someones heart is full up with something, and then you demean it without even listening to them — I hate that.The discussions reveal other sensitivities. Some Blues didnt want to enter a venue that had a Dont Tread on Me flag on the wall. To Reds that was a neutral flag from American history, but to Blues it carried all sorts of nasty associations. Reds were offended by the lawn signs that said, Hate Has No Home Here. The implication: Hate has no home in my house, but it does in yours.In another exercise, Reds and Blues ask each other honest, nonleading questions. Blues may ask Reds, Name a safety-net program you can support. Reds may ask Blues, How do you balance having a heart with keeping health care costs under control?By the end of the conversations, the atmosphere has changed. Nearly always somebody will say that the discussion was easy because only moderates were in the room, not the people who post crazy stuff on Facebook. The staff tries not to smile, knowing that some of the people were selected precisely because of the intense stuff they posted on Facebook.This is not a civility organization, Blankenhorn told Lawson. Better Angels is aiming to build a group of people whose personal bonds with their fellow citizens redefine how they engage in the political system.We dont really have policy debates anymore. We have one big tribal conflict, and policy fights are just proxy battles as each side tries to establish moral superiority. But just as the tribal mentality has been turned on, it can be turned off. Then and only then can we go back to normal politics and take reasonable measures to keep our children safe.Michelle Goldberg is off today.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Tom WheelerWASHINGTON — The indictment of 13 Russians filed on Friday by Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election, details the secret workings of the Internet Research Agency, an organization in St. Petersburg, Russia, that disseminates false information online. According to American intelligence officials, the Kremlin oversaw this shadowy operation, which made extensive use of social media accounts to foster conflict in the United States and erode public faith in its democracy.But the Kremlins operation relied on more than just its own secrecy. It also benefited from the secrecy of social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter. Their algorithms for systematically targeting users to receive certain content are off limits to the public, and the output of these algorithms is almost impossible to monitor. The algorithms make millions of what amount to editorial decisions, pumping out content without anyone fully understanding what is happening.The editorial decisions of a newspaper or television news program are immediately apparent (articles published, segments aired) and so can be readily analyzed for bias and effect. By contrast, the editorial decisions of social media algorithms are opaque and slow to be discovered — even to those who run the platforms. It can take days or weeks before anyone finds out what has been disseminated by social media software.The Mueller investigation is shining a welcome light on the Kremlins covert activity, but there is no similar effort to shine a light on the social media algorithms that helped the Russians spread their messages. There needs to be. This effort should begin by opening up the results of the algorithms.In computer-speak, this opening up would involve something called an open application programming interface. This is a common software technique that allows different programs to work with one another. For instance, Uber uses the open application programming interface of Google Maps to get information about a riders pickup point and destination. It is not Ubers own mapping algorithm, but rather Googles open application programming interface, that makes it possible for Uber to build its own algorithms for its distinctive functions.The government should require social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter to use a similar open application programming interface. This would make it possible for third parties to build software to monitor and report on the effects of social media algorithms. (This idea has been proposed by Wael Ghonim, the Egyptian Google employee who helped organize the Tahrir Square uprising in 2011.)To be clear, the proposal is not to force companies to open up their algorithms — just the results of the algorithms. The goal is to make it possible to understand what content is fed into the algorithms and how the algorithms distribute that content. Who created the information or advertisement? And to what groups of users was it directed? An open application programming interface would therefore threaten neither a social media platforms intellectual property nor the privacy of its individual users.Media watchdog groups have long been able to assess the results of the editorial decisions of newspapers and television. Whether those stories express the left, right or center of the political spectrum, they are openly available to independent organizations that want to understand what is being communicated.Extending this practice to social media would mean that a watchdog group could create software to analyze and make public whatever information from the platforms it might consider important: the demographics of the readership of a certain article, for instance, or whether a fake story continued to be widely disseminated even after being debunked.After the Mueller indictment, Twitter issued a statement noting that technology companies cannot defeat this novel, shared threat alone — referring to efforts like the Russian disinformation campaign. The best approach, the statement continued, is to share information and ideas to increase our collective knowledge, with the full weight of government and law enforcement leading the charge against threats to our democracy.This is true. And one effective form of information-sharing would be legally mandated open application programming interfaces for social media platforms. They would help the public identify what is being delivered by social media algorithms, and thus help protect our democracy.Tom Wheeler, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 2013 to 2017, is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and a fellow at Harvard Kennedy School.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
The Interpreter By                     
 AMANDA TAUB and
 

 MAX FISHER
 
FEB. 18, 2018
As international conspiracies to undermine the worlds last remaining superpower go, the Russian-led plot revealed by a Justice Department indictment on Friday can seem, in its particulars if not its intent, audacious but, as revealed so far, somewhat narrow.The conspirators stand accused of spreading falsehoods online, hiring Hillary Clinton impersonators at rallies and starting Facebook groups that tried to convince minority voters to stay home or cast their ballots for Jill Stein.That these efforts might have actually made a difference, or at least were intended to, highlights a force that was already destabilizing American democracy far more than any Russian-made fake news post: partisan polarization.Partisanship can even alter memory, implicit evaluation, and even perceptual judgment, the political scientists Jay J. Van Bavel and Andrea Pereira wrote in a recent paper. The human attraction to fake and untrustworthy news — a danger cited by political scientists far more frequently than orchestrated meddling — poses a serious problem for healthy democratic functioning.AdvertisementIt has infected the American political system, weakening the body politic and leaving it vulnerable to manipulation. Russian misinformation seems to have exacerbated the symptoms, but laced throughout the indictment are reminders that the underlying disease, arguably far more damaging, is all American-made.AdvertisementThe false information and political advertisements that the Russians are accused of spreading could ring true only to those already predisposed to suspect the worst.One Instagram account targeting voters on the right, for instance, implied that Black Lives Matter activists were assassinating police officers. Another targeting black voters implied that the government had implicitly supported the Ku Klux Klan by dismantling the Black Panthers.If this had any effect, research suggests it did so by tapping into existing polarization, rather than creating new divisions.A recent study found that the people most likely to consume fake news were already hyperpartisan and close followers of politics, and that false stories were only a small fraction of their media consumption.Americans, it said, sought out stories that reflected their already-formed partisan view of reality. This suggests that these Russians efforts are indicators — not drivers — of how widely Americans had polarized.That distinction matters for how the indictment is read: Though Americans have seen it as highlighting a foreign threat, it also illustrates the perhaps graver threats from within.Russian interference tended to focus on telling the targeted group to fear and distrust the other side. Posts that targeted Republicans, for instance, portrayed Mrs. Clinton as a threat to the Constitution and public safety, and in one memorable example said that her election would be a victory for Satan himself.AdvertisementIn taking this approach, the Russians were merely riding a trend that has been building for decades. Since the 1980s, surveys have found that Republicans and Democrats feelings toward the opposing party have been growing more and more negative. Voters are animated more by distrust of the other side than support for their own.This highlights a problem that Lilliana Mason, a University of Maryland political scientist, said had left American democracy dangerously vulnerable. But its a problem driven primarily by American politicians and media outlets, which have far louder megaphones than any Russian-made Facebook posts.Compromise is the core of democracy, she said. Its the only way we can govern. But, she said, when you make people feel threatened, nobody compromises with evil.The claim that, for example, Mrs. Clintons victory might aid Satan is in many ways just a faint echo of the partisan anger and fear already dominating American politics.Those emotions undermine a key norm that all sides are served by honoring democratic processes; instead, they justify, or even seem to mandate, extreme steps against the other side.Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news stories of the week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Russians apparent focus on heightening racial division touched on something much deeper than even the Russians may have understood.American democracy can function only when its citizens accept the right of all others to participate regardless of their background.That applies to party divisions. But, increasingly, partisan identity is aligning with racial and religious identity, according to research by Dr. Mason. This, along with deepening partisan distrust, is creating one of the worst possible conditions in a multiethnic democracy: a growing belief that elections are a zero-sum contest for control among racial and religious groups.AdvertisementRussian misinformation hit repeatedly on this fear, spreading fake news and even rally posters that declared the allegiance of Muslim Americans to Mrs. Clinton.Polarization by race, building since the 1990s, poses the greatest challenge to established forms of mutual toleration and forbearance since Reconstruction, the political scientists Daniel Ziblatt and Steven Levitsky write in their book, How Democracies Die.The idea that all demographic groups must cooperate rather than compete is one of the most important norms for a multiethnic democracy like that of the United States. The claims pushed in Russian posts demonstrate, precisely because they are so implausible, how rapidly that norm is weakening.The Russian campaign targeted not just democracys guardrails — the norms of cooperation and inclusion — but also political parties, which are supposed to function as democracys guardians. For instance, posts and individuals alleged that the Democratic Party was outright stealing the primary for Mrs. Clinton — well beyond what actually occurred — and attempted to sow infighting among Republicans.Although parties compete by design, they also play a stabilizing role, weeding out candidates with anti-democratic or extreme views, for instance, and ensuring that legislators individual interests dont crowd out the states ability to govern. Or theyre supposed to, anyway.But the Russians entered a political scene already defined by the parties weakness and inability to control their own field.The defining characteristic of our moment is that parties are weak while partisanship is strong, Julia Azari, a Marquette University political scientist, wrote the day after the vote.It may have been party weakness that even gave the Russians a Trump campaign to support. Though the G.O.P. tried repeatedly to halt Mr. Trumps advance in the primary, it failed, revealing both its powerlessness and its unpopularity with its own voters.AdvertisementFox News had displaced the partys power over Republican voters, according to Vanessa Williamson, a political scientist who is the co-author of the definitive academic book on Tea Party politics, which revealed that shift long before the Russians arrived. Though the foreigner-pushed posts may be more striking than homegrown partisan media, it is a reminder that the latter plays a far greater role in weakening parties.Hillary Clinton has already committed voter fraud during the Democrat Iowa Caucus, announced a 2016 Facebook post allegedly written by the Russians named in the indictment.Warnings of voter fraud were a frequent theme, and one with some irony; the Russians, it seems, sought to undermine American democracy by suggesting it had already been undermined.But if Americans were susceptible to messages seeking to discredit democratic institutions, it was because many already believed them.The Tea Party movement, for instance, rose on a fear that Barack Obama was more dictator than president, and that his health care reforms would send elderly Americans to death panels. Mr. Trump rose on the lie that Mr. Obama is secretly foreign-born. Some supporters of Bernie Sanders, a Democratic senator, suspected that Mrs. Clinton had engineered the primary vote against him, a notion later hit upon by Russian misinformation.And if institutions behave in ways that partisans dislike, for example by issuing a court ruling or releasing a vote tally that hurt their side, those partisans can come to see the institutions as threats to democracy rather than its bedrock foundation.Mr. Trump, for instance, has attacked the F.B.I. as part of a deep state seeking to unseat him from office. In several states, lawmakers unhappy with unfavorable court rulings are increasingly responding with calls for limiting the powers of the judiciary.This can lead partisans to believe that by attacking those institutions, they are saving democracy from its enemies within. To the other side, this only affirms suspicion that their opponents are innately anti-democratic and must be excluded. It is a self-perpetuating cycle, one that Russian meddling may have only sped up a bit but that remains almost entirely American-driven.The Interpreter is a column by Max Fisher and Amanda Taub exploring the ideas and context behind major world events. Follow them on Twitter @Max_Fisher and @amandataub.A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2018, on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: With Red and Blue Already Clashing, Russia Was Happy to Antagonize.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byText by John LelandPhotographs by Anthony BarbozaTo understand Anthony Barbozas portraits, start with the photograph of Michael Jackson taken around Jacksons 21st birthday. Mr. Barboza, who is now 73, had just finished shooting the singer in color for a magazine assignment, and he wanted to add some images for himself. He said he saw Jackson as a child, so he arranged the lighting and backdrop to cast a shadow version of the pop star with his feet up, like a little boy on a jungle gym. In the foreground, Mr. Jacksons feet are out of the frame, and his face is stoic adult.Its not just an image of a person, Mr. Barboza said of his portraits, from his home in Westbury, on Long Island. I try to put some of my perception about each personality in the photograph. So its an image of them, but its also how I felt about each individual.Like Ntozake Shange, there is a movement there because theres many personalities within her. So I created each of these lightings and approaches according to how I thought their personality was. Mr. Barboza, who still bears the accent of his childhood in New Bedford, Mass., moved to New York in 1963 and joined the highly influential Kamoinge workshop of African-American photographers. Though he did a lot of street photography, his formal portraits of well-known artists were opportunities to add dimensions to figures we might think we know.For James Baldwin, there is more in depth to him besides just being a beautiful person, Mr. Barboza said. His portrait of the writer presents Baldwins shadow almost as a second character. There were other things about him. When youre meeting him, he doesnt tell you all about racism or anything. Those things he saves for his writing. These images, all from the 1970s, belong to a series he called Black Borders, which is on view at the Keith de Lellis Gallery in New York until March 10.Follow @BarbozaStudios and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Anthony Barboza is also on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.John Leland, a Metro reporter, joined The Times in 2000. His most recent book is Happiness Is a Choice You Make: Lessons From a Year Among the Oldest Old, based on a Times series.  @johnlelandAdvertisementBy YOTAM OTTOLENGHIFEB. 16, 2018
Recently, I have been spending time simplifying some old recipes.Not everyone has a couple of hours to spare in the kitchen on a school night, my sister once said to me, voicing a familiar complaint about the time commitment demanded by some of my dishes.I know, I know, I said, and offered my standard response. But, hey, when you get to taste them — it all makes total sense, right?I guess so, she conceded, with a lack of conviction reserved for close family members.Even if I try to let such grievances glide like water over my proverbial ducks back, they do make me ask myself about the circumstances under which people cook. Is there a way to deliver the impact I like my food to have — surprising, complex, bold and, of course, delicious — without having to put together 18 ingredients and set aside the two hours my sister cant spare when cooking for her family? The short answer to this question is yes, but there is more to it than that.In the next few months, Ill be using these pages to offer two variations on a theme in each column: one recipe that you can whip up quickly without breaking your back or your bank balance; another one that will be a more involved, special occasion kind of dish in which youll happily invest time and resources. My hope is that two versions on a common theme will allow you, the reader, and me to better understand the particular conditions under which we cook and the kind of dishes that work best. It will also offer extra-busy people (like my dear sister) an opportunity to try out the particular ingredients and flavor combinations I get so excited about.AdvertisementMy focus today is salmon. I am taking inspiration for these two recipes from the two tips of Europe: Sweden at the very north for my epic recipe and Sicily in the south for the everyday version.AdvertisementI give a traditional Nordic laxpudding, a cozy bake of potatoes, salmon and dill, bright Mediterranean touches from capers and lemon. And a quick pan-seared fillet, that most modern of preparations, benefits from the classic Sicilian contrast of currants, olives and pine nuts. How the fish is cooked is entirely different in these two versions but, put together, they show the versatility of salmon and how well it adapts to different culinary circumstances.My sister promises to try it both ways.Recipes: Creamy Potato Gratin With Smoked and Fresh Salmon | Pan-Seared Salmon With Celery, Olives and CapersFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Salmon, Two Ways: One Epic, One Everyday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
City Kitchen By                     
 DAVID TANIS
 
FEB. 16, 2018
Everyone falls for the homey appeal of chicken potpie. And why not? The aromatic filling of chicken in gravy, the nicely browned pastry lid, the ritual of piercing the crust: The whole experience is memorable.For most, it is a fond childhood memory — but not necessarily of a homemade treat made by a doting mother.I mostly recall having chicken potpies when my mother didnt feel like cooking. We children, fascinated by anything that came from the freezer section of the supermarket, were always thrilled. We each had our own little pie, baked in its own diminutive aluminum foil pan. Even if it was generic, bland chicken stew (and it was) encased in not very distinctive pie dough, it seemed wonderful. There was something attractive about the pies soggy bottoms, a contrast to the crisp tops.For me, the frozen potpie has long since lost its attractiveness, but I confess to sometimes longing for a made-from-scratch version. Fortunately, in the era of frozen pastry dough, its not really very difficult to put together.AdvertisementRather than create miniature pies, I make them like turnovers or hand pies, folding the dough over the filling, so you can hold them with your fingers. Sometimes they are large, for dinner; sometimes bite-size, with drinks for a party. To make the job go faster, I use store bought puff pastry, with this caveat: Buy the real stuff, made with butter (read the label).To make the filling, I roast whole chicken legs, then remove and chop the meat: much simpler than breaking down a whole chicken. Softened onions, a bit of thyme and a splash of chicken broth are all thats required, but a little crème fraîche never hurts. I find mushrooms to be the best vegetable to combine with the chicken, rather than the usual suspects, but frozen peas are an option.AdvertisementThis is an easy project, but you may want to approach it in stages. First, cook the chicken, as long as a day ahead. Make the filling when there is a convenient moment. The actual assembly and baking of the pies takes practically no time or effort. You can even freeze them, unbaked or baked in advance, to finish or reheat them at serving time if you wish.The result tastes very homemade, and it mostly is. The buttery aroma and flaky crust added by the puff pastry give the humble potpie a certain elegance.Recipe: Flaky Chicken Hand PiesFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Chicken Potpie, the Spinoff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHOE SANG-HUNFEB. 19, 2018
SEOUL, South Korea — One of South Koreas most prominent theater directors apologized on Monday for sexually abusing actresses, part of a slowly building #MeToo movement in a deeply male-dominated society.I feel so ashamed and crushed, Lee Youn-taek, 65, a former artistic director of the National Theater of Korea, said at a news conference in Seoul. I am ready to take all punishment, including legal responsibilities for my crimes.Mr. Lees apology on Monday came five days after a Facebook post by a former actress set off a cascade of abuse accusations against him.I could not refuse. He was the king of the world where I belonged, said the former actress, Kim Soo-hee, describing how Mr. Lee had called her to his hotel room. When I opened the door, I saw him lying on the bed, and as expected, he ordered me to give him a massage. After a while, he suddenly took his pants off.AdvertisementIn South Korea, men still dominate the top echelons of government, business and the arts, presiding over a strictly hierarchical code that makes women particularly vulnerable to abuse and bias.AdvertisementWomens rights advocates have long warned that male supervisors exploit the countrys command-and-compliance work culture, where an employees personal relationship with her bosses often determines her chances for promotion.Mr. Lees admission on Monday attested to the lasting nature of the problem. This is a very bad thing that has been happening customarily for the past 18 years, he said.South Korea has made strides on womens rights in recent years, as more women have moved into the government, judiciary and corporate world. Long gone are the days when women in a Korean family were not allowed to eat at the same table as men or had to wait until men were finished. Government agencies and big corporations have instituted mandatory classes on harassment in recent years.Still, in this deeply patriarchal society, sons in many families still get the lions shares of inheritances from parents, and in workplaces, women are often treated like temporary employees expected to quit once they marry.The World Economic Forum ranks the country 118th of 144 in terms of gender equality. Men earn 37 percent more than women on average, a gap in wages that puts South Korea at the bottom of member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. (The gap is 18 percent in the United States and 26 percent in Japan.)As elsewhere, sexual abuse victims often remain quiet for fear of losing their jobs or being ostracized in the workplace. In 2009, a young actress named Jang Ja-yeon committed suicide, leaving behind a handwritten note saying she had been forced to provide sexual favors to entertainment executives.But as the #MeToo movement has erupted around the world, complaints in South Korea have trickled out. In November, a 25-year-old employee of the furniture maker Hanssem posted a detailed account of being sexually assaulted by male colleagues. In another episode, nurses at Hallym University Medical Center in Anyang, south of Seoul, said they were told to dance in skimpy outfits at work-related events.AdvertisementA broader outcry and lasting reforms, however, have been slow to materialize. A tipping point appears to have come last month when a prosecutor named Seo Ji-hyeon asserted that a senior male prosecutor groped her at a funeral in 2010.Writing in an internal web log for prosecutors, she said she had been so deeply traumatized that she had a miscarriage.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I wanted to speak out but many discouraged me, saying: It will be a piece of cake for them to turn you into a fool. If you speak up now, they will make you look like an inefficient, problematic, weirdo prosecutor,  she wrote in her posting. They said, Keep your mouth shut and go back to your work. After taking the rare step of appearing on TV to describe how she had been suppressed in the male-dominated legal world, Ms. Seo drew a wave of public support, forcing the Justice Ministry to open an investigation. Other women, including graduate school students and corporate employees, have since come forward with their own stories of sexual assault.In this newly open environment, news outlets have resurfaced a poem published last fall about an unidentified literary giant, accused of serially groping young women.In The Beast, the poet Choi Young-mi did not name her subject, but the media quickly singled out Ko Un, a South Korean poet often cited as a candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature.Kim Myoung-in, the editor of the magazine that published Ms. Chois poem, lamented, I myself cannot avoid the accusation that I aided and abetted because I had never tried to stop it. In a Facebook post, he said that female writers were often sexually harassed by senior writers and publishing executives and that Mr. Kos pattern had been well known for decades.Mr. Ko has not commented publicly on the accusations, but the new attention to male behavior seems to suggest that a wall of silence in South Korea is being eroded.Ms. Seo, the prosecutor whose case set off the #MeToo wave here, said that after she first sought an investigation, she was transferred to an obscure post in a provincial town. She spoke up publicly after the senior prosecutor she accused, Ahn Tae-geun, was fired last year in a corruption scandal.AdvertisementMr. Ahn told reporters, It happened so long ago, and I was heavily drunk, so I dont remember, but if such an act happened, then I sincerely apologize.In November, Parliament improved protections for victims of sexual harassment, increasing penalties for employers who discriminate against them or fail to investigate abuse.Still, a fresh reminder of the obstacles victims have faced in South Korea came only minutes before Mr. Lee held his news conference on Monday.In a Facebook post, another former actress, Lee Seung-bi, wrote that she had been subjected to a witch hunt after she rebuffed Mr. Lee.Even my boyfriend, who was a member of his theater group, kept silent, she wrote.An earlier version of this article misstated Lee Youn-taeks age. He is 65, not 66.A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: In South Korea, the #MeToo Movement Is Catching On.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRISTOPHER MELEFEB. 19, 2018
A persistent noise of unknown origin, sometimes compared to a truck idling or distant thunder, has bedeviled a Canadian city for years, damaging peoples health and quality of life, numerous residents say.Those who hear it have compared it to a fleet of diesel engines idling next to your home or the pulsation of a subwoofer at a concert. Others report it rattling their windows and spooking their pets.Known as the Windsor Hum, this sound in Windsor, Ontario, near Detroit, is unpredictable in its duration, timing and intensity, making it all the more maddening for those affected.You know how you hear of people who have gone out to secluded places to get away from certain sounds or noises and the like? Sabrina Wiese posted in a private Facebook group dedicated to finding the source of the noise.AdvertisementIve wanted to do that many times in the past year or so because it has gotten so bad, she wrote. Imagine having to flee all you know and love just to have a chance to hear nothing humming in your head for hours on end.Since reports of it surfaced in 2011, the hum has been studied by the Canadian government, the University of Western Ontario and the University of Windsor.AdvertisementActivists have done their own sleuthing.Over six years, Mike Provost of Windsor, who helps run the Facebook page, has amassed more than 4,000 pages of daily observations about the duration, intensity and characteristics of the sound and the weather conditions at the time.He has had to fend off skeptics and theorists who believe that the hum is related to secret tunneling, U.F.O.s or covert government operations, he said.Mr. Provost, a retired insurance salesman, said his work was a blend of obsession and hobby. Ive got to keep going, he said in a phone interview. Im not going to quit this.The hum is not limited to Windsor, a city of about 220,000 people on the Detroit River. Mr. Provost said he had received reports from McGregor, Ontario, 20 miles to the south, and from east of Cleveland, about 90 miles away.Tracey Ramsey, a member of the Canadian House of Commons, said in a phone interview that she regularly gets calls from constituents about the health effects of the hum. Residents have complained of headaches, sleeplessness, irritability and depression, among other symptoms.Its something they are desperate for an answer to, she said.Tracing the noises origins is complicated by who hears it, and when and where.AdvertisementTim Carpenter, a retired consulting engineer who specialized in geotechnical engineering and machine vibrations and is an administrator of the Facebook page, says not everyone can hear it.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Its as if you had a fire hose moving back and forth and the people who have the water falling on them hear the noise, and if youre outside that stream, you dont hear the noise, he said.Researchers have found no trends related to gender or age for the hearers.Dr. Darius Kohan, the director of otology and neurotology at Lenox Hill Hospital and Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, said that the low-frequency hum was unlikely to cause long-term hearing damage but that it could be as debilitating as tinnitus, a persistent ringing in the ears.Scott Barton, an assistant professor of music at Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts, said in a phone interview that infrasound, which is below 20 hertz, can create a sense of unease because it is unintelligible to human hearing but still detectable. While it is possible to be accustomed to certain noises (the hum of an air-conditioner, for example), this low-frequency noise is challenging because it has been so inconsistent, he said.Seeking intervention by government regulators for the hum is difficult because regulations typically address decibel levels that can lead to hearing loss or damage, not those that can affect quality of life, Rebecca Smith, a sound engineer and doctoral student at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, who researches urban noise, wrote in an email.Think about the sound of a dog barking, she said. It doesnt need to be loud enough to physically damage you to be really annoying and distracting.The University of Windsor report said the hums likely source was blast furnace operations on Zug Island on the Detroit River, which is densely packed with manufacturing. Activists complained that United States Steel, which operates the furnaces, has been uncooperative and secretive. A company spokeswoman did not respond to requests for comment.A principal investigator on the study, Professor Colin Novak, told CBC News in 2014 that researchers needed more time and cooperation from the American authorities to pinpoint the source. Its like chasing a ghost, he said.AdvertisementHums similar to Windsors have been reported in at least a dozen communities worldwide, including in Australia, England and Scotland, the study said. In the United States, high-profile hums have been reported in Taos, N.M., and Kokomo, Ind.Researchers studied the Taos hum in 1993 but did not pinpoint a source. Karina Armijo, the towns director of marketing and tourism, said in a telephone interview that complaints had subsided.I have never heard the Taos hum, but Ive heard stories of the Taos hum, she said. Theres not been a lot of buzz about it in the last few years.A 2003 study in Kokomo by the acoustics and vibration consulting company Acentech prompted two industrial plants to install silencing equipment, providing relief to some residents but not all, a 2008 paper about the study said.In fact, one affected resident had become so disturbed that she moved more than 700 miles away to relieve her symptoms, it said.Mr. Carpenter said it was possible a major source of the Windsor hum could be eliminated and other mechanical sources would replace it, entering the heard spectrum.Its possible that no matter what is done to relieve or attenuate the noise, it might never be enough, he said.A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2018, on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: This City Would Rather Not Hum Along.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported bySURFACING: EXPLORING COMMUNITIES Meet the people whose goal is to disrupt the stereotypes of cosplay.By Walter Thompson-HernándezBlack characters are rarely central to the imaginary worlds that fill the pages of comic books, which often depict them as sidekicks or villains rather than the superheroes. That means the cosplay community, made up of fans who dress in character at conventions, movies and just for fun on weekends, is overwhelmingly white. That is perhaps why black cosplayers in particular have been excited about the Black Panther film since Marvel Comics announced its release in 2014 and Ta-Nehisi Coates wrote a new series of the comic in 2016. Its hero, TChalla, the Black Panther, lives in a fictional advanced nation called Wakanda. There, black characters can be both the hero and the villain, a three-dimensional portrait of people of African descent often left out of comic books and movies. There is a strong sense of African pride for the nation set in East Africa, one that is permeating black American culture. The Black Panther character first appeared in Marvel Comics in 1966, but this film is Marvels first featuring a leading black superhero and a predominantly black cast, including Lupita Nyongo and Chadwick Boseman, directed by an African-American, Ryan Coogler, with a soundtrack by an African-American, Kendrick Lamar. Since the superheros introduction, there have been other black superheroes including the Falcon (1969), Blade (1973) and Storm, the first black female superhero, who appeared in 1975. They are not celebrated everywhere. Many African-American cosplayers believe that Instagram and Facebook cosplay groups tend to isolate nonwhite cosplayers. As a result, black cosplayers have used their own social media accounts to create inclusive spaces. Instagram pages like Cosplay of Color and Facebook groups like The Extraordinary Journey of a Black Nerd were created to promote the celebration of black cosplay and nerd culture in America and beyond. The goal, many cosplayers interviewed said, is to disrupt popular ideas of what cosplay can and should look like and to help create a more racially tolerant environment through cosplay, both in Black Panther costumes and outside of them.For more Surfacing pieces, like one on a Jamaican synchronized swimming team, click here.  Ms. Lewis, an actress and model, began cosplaying as a teenager with the character Flash. She has since branched out to other characters, including Storm, an important figure in the Black Panther legacy. She said that being an African-American cosplayer helps create a more open world both within the world of cosplay and outside it. Were helping people see us as heroes, said Ms. Lewis, who lives in Los Angeles. And I think black cosplayers are changing cosplay because we are now opening up a conversation about inclusion. Were a subculture within a subculture, and were hoping the nerd community can be more inclusive toward us. Black cosplayers are also helping to challenge limitations on what African-American cosplayers can be. Black people want to be the characters that we love and they might not necessarily look like us and if we want to look like them, we get a lot of backlash and ridicule and get made fun of, she said. The hypocrisy happens when nobody says anything about white characters portraying Asian characters or others.  She hopes that she and other African-American cosplayers can help change that double standard. She also engages in cosplay for other reasons. "When I'm in cosplay, it's the enhanced version of when I'm dressed in my regular clothes, she said. When I wear these costumes, I get to be more than who I am.Mr. Trotter's cosplay journey began as a young teenager with the release of one of the films in the Spider-Man series. This self-described Marvel geek is usually the only person in cosplay among his friends, and on the field of his California State University Long Beach college rugby team, where he frequently plays while dressed as the Black Panther. This film is a chance to help change the mind-set of the comic and Marvel world that are sometimes racist toward black people, he said, citing online backlash that he has experienced, including people photoshopping and posting racially charged words and stereotypical imagery about the Black Panther.Mr. Trotter is looking forward to the films soundtrack by Kendrick Lamar. The cosplay world may not be ready for this, he said of the album. Its going to be lit. Were redefining cosplay because were putting our own spin on it, said Ms. Walker, a Los Angeles native and Black Panther enthusiast who regularly organizes cosplay meet-ups through Facebook groups like Sisterhood of the Mother of Dragons. We add a swag to nerd culture that wasnt there. Ms. Walker said that the film stood out for its positive portrayal of Wakanda, an African nation that was never colonized by European nations. Its the first time in America cinema narrative where you have a country full of noncolonized black people that are all science prodigies and geniuses, she explained. This film is about autonomy, especially the films interest in science and technology, which I didnt see when I was growing up.Ms. Walker said that she and other black cosplayers had faced harassment by white cosplayers, who used racial epithets in online communities and forums. She feels that black cosplayers are improving the aesthetic of the broader community. Ive seen some messed-up wigs and some unrealistic hairlines and curl patterns in cosplay and thats not sexy, she said. We make it sexy. Mr. Shaw, a Los Angeles native and yearly comic convention attendee, remembers the first time he put on a Black Panther costume, almost five years ago.  I went to the San Diego Comic-Con and a little white kid who walked up to me and said, Youre the Black Panther! he said.He couldnt see me, but I was tearing up inside of my mask, he added. It was powerful.Mr. Shaw, a father of two, believes that he and other African-American cosplayers demonstrate why the comics world needs more characters like TChalla, the Black Panther. It's going to be great for people of color once they start seeing that there is a black superhero who is a king and graduated with honors from four different schools, he said. When I don the costume, I feel like I embody the character. I am no longer Sean, I become the king of Wakanda.Mr. Dowell has found communities of online African-American cosplayers like The Extraordinary Journey of a Black Nerd group on Facebook that gather to make prop weapons to celebrate movie premieres and attend comic conventions like the San Diego Comic-Con. Ive always been into anime, and then one day I fell in love with comics, he said while gripping two metal rods that he often uses as props for his Black Panther outfit. It feels great to see other people at conventions and getting hyped over the same characters.Though he is happy about the film, he does and will keep dressing as characters who are not black. Its harder for you to be seen when you dont look like some of the characters that we see in the comic world, he said. You take it in stride, but we always put our own black twist on it when we perform and dress-up.Mr. Miller discovered comic books in the early 1990s. Thanks to my dad and uncles and siblings, I grew up studying and drawing comic books but also watching all the fantasy and fiction movies that I could, said Mr. Miller, a doctoral candidate at the University of Southern California. It has been 18 years since he saw his first movie, X-Men, and he has never seen anything like Black Panther. While the 90s gave us some black science fiction — Blade, Blankman, Shazaam, Spawn, Static Shock — Black Panther is unprecedented. It takes place partly in an African-run city, the powerful, beautiful, protected, wealthy land of Wakanda, which is unlike the dystopic, dark lands that nearly all science fiction movies put us black people in, he said.Mr. Miller said that as a result, black cosplayers fantasy world came with barriers. Black cosplayers have had to awkwardly insert ourselves into the canon of science fiction fandom, he said. We can now be more confident that we belong. When Ms. Kaufman and Mr. Okafor met online, they bonded over enjoying cosplay. I engaged with it a bit more because of my theater background, she said. Together, our interest and excitement increased. Chuk saw how happy it made me to be in my element. "I feel extremely comfortable in costume, and cosplaying has allowed me to envision myself as a character, Ms. Kaufman said. I like to use my imagination and interpret characters based on whatever is inspiring me at the time, and when those inspirations, whether theyre based on music, historical events, feelings, couple nicely with the identity of a character who I can relate to, I feel accomplished.I really liked when I heard Gil Scott-Herons The Revolution Will Not Be Televised in the films trailer, said Ms. Kaufman, who regularly attends cosplay events with Mr. Okafor throughout Southern California. That happened in the 1970s when there was a revolution and people were upset. Thats happening again today.Mr. Okafor, a Black Panther enthusiast whose interest in cosplay can be traced to elaborate Halloween costumes in his youth, believes that Marvels decision to hire a black director and a predominantly black cast conveys a strong message. Without saying it they are taking a political stance, he explained. Its directed and the actors are mostly black and its for the people.AdvertisementBy KASIA PILATFEB. 15, 2018
Our guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.EVERYTHING IS FALLING APART at QED Astoria (Feb. 22, 7:30 p.m.). The name of this event divulges its underlying premise, which is that once a month its host, Molly McGaughey, interviews a guest over a game of Jenga, wherein the guest answers questions that are written on the blocks. When the Jenga tower falls, though, that signals the end of the interview. This time the delightfully deprecating comedian Aparna Nancherla plays the game, while Melissa Diaz, Chanel Ali and Savannah DesOrmeaux provide stand-up and storytelling.347-451-3873, qedastoria.comNORE DAVIS TOO WOKE! ALBUM RECORDING at Union Hall (Feb. 16, 8 and 10 p.m.). The comedian Nore Davis, whose credits include such shows as Boardwalk Empire, Luke Cage, Inside Amy Schumer and Jerry Seinfelds Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee, excels in the space between toeing the line and delivering a clean set. During this performance, hell be recording the follow-up to his 2015 album, Away Game, joined by the witty and insightful comedian Aminah Imani.718-638-4400, unionhallny.comDEMETRI MARTIN at the Bell House (Feb. 22, 7:30 and 10 p.m.). The comedian Demetri Martin is a thrill to try to keep up with. His razor-sharp wit moves at the speed of light: By the time one joke sinks in, hes already onto the next. His pure talent truly shines when he reframes the ordinary, everyday objects or occurrences that most of us take for granted in a new, hilarious light. Hes also very good with flip charts.718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.comRAISE THE ROOF AND HELP SYRIAN CHILDREN at the Bell House (Feb. 20, 8 p.m.). This benefit is the antidote to the predictable silent auctions or the unexciting musical performances from the local grade school choir (no offense, kids). Featuring a fantastic lineup of comedians like Phoebe Robinson, Todd Barry, Chris Gethard, Aparna Nancherla and Michelle Buteau, and hosted by the easygoing and amiable Maeve Higgins, this event will raise money for the nonprofit Inara, which provides medical care to children who are unable to access it because of war.718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.comTHE UNEMPLOYED SHOW at Littlefield (Feb. 18, 8 p.m.). Billed as Americas favorite unemployed millennial, Anna Roisman regularly broadcasts this talk show from her couch on Facebook Live with the help of her dog, Bobby Flay, but on Sunday shell be on the Littlefield stage to interview unemployed or otherwise freelancing creative individuals. In this installment, she will present her take on awards shows, which will feature music, stand-up and the requisite In Memoriam segment, with Sasheer Zamata, Matt Rogers, Michael Hartney, Sydnee Washington and others.littlefieldnyc.comA version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2018, on Page C29 of the New York edition with the headline: Comedy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.