

 Kevin Roose
 

THE SHIFT
JAN. 22, 2018
For the past several years, Facebook has been conducting what amounts to an A/B test on human society, using two different social media apps.The first app in Facebook’s test has a maximalist design: It allows users to post lengthy status updates, with links to news articles, photos, videos and more. The app is designed as a giant megaphone, with an emphasis on public sharing and an algorithmic feed capable of sending posts rocketing around the world in seconds.The second app in the test is more minimalist, designed for intimate sharing rather than viral broadcasting. Users of this app, many of whom have private accounts with modest followings, can post photos or videos, but external links do not work and there is no re-share button, making it harder for users to amplify one another’s posts.The results of this test have been stark. The first app, Facebook, turned into a huge and unmanageable behemoth that swallowed the media industry, was exploited by hostile foreign actors, empowered autocrats, created the conditions for a global fake news epidemic and ultimately became a giant headache for its creators.AdvertisementThe second app, Instagram, has fared much better. It hasn’t been overrun with bogus news, it hasn’t been exploited to the same degree, and most users seem happy with it — especially young users, who vastly prefer it to Facebook.AdvertisementMark Zuckerberg has pledged to spend 2018 cleaning up Facebook, and ensuring that “our services aren’t just fun to use, but also good for people’s well-being.” He’s also pledged to deal with the scourge of fake news on Facebook, and do a better job of keeping bad actors at bay.Good for him. But there may be a simpler fix here. Why doesn’t he make his beleaguered blue app more like Instagram, the Facebook-owned app that isn’t destabilizing society?Last week, Facebook unveiled its latest attempt to rein in its flagship product. In an effort to curb false news, it announced it would be allowing Facebook users to rank news outlets by trustworthiness, and consider those scores when deciding which news stories to display in users’ feeds.But this kind of minor algorithmic knob-fiddling may not be enough. Instead, Facebook should consider using what it’s learned with Instagram, which it acquired in 2012, to embark on a gut renovation.If I were Mr. Zuckerberg, here are some Instagram lessons I’d be thinking about.Lesson No. 1: Emphasize visuals. De-emphasize text.First, and most obviously, Instagram is a visual medium. Photos and videos are the main event, and text, while present, is mostly confined to captions and comments. As a result, Instagram feels more intimate than Facebook, where photos and videos often sit alongside lengthy diatribes, restaurant check-ins and mundane status updates.Research has shown that, in some cases, visual platforms can be good for us. One study, published by researchers at the University of Oregon in 2016, found that the use of image-based platforms like Instagram and Snapchat was associated with lower levels of loneliness among users, and higher levels of happiness and satisfaction, while text-based platforms had no correlation with improved mental health.AdvertisementA heavily visual platform also makes a relatively poor conduit for breaking news and in-the-moment commentary, which might explain why Instagram often feels less exhausting than other social networks. (It also explains why last month, before I went on vacation, I deleted every social media app from my phone except Instagram — the only app I trusted not to ruin my beachside calm.)Lesson No. 2: Rethink the share button.One of Instagram’s most underrated virtues is that it has imposed structural limits on virality — the ability of a given post to spread beyond its intended audience. Unlike Twitter and Facebook, on Instagram there is no native sharing function, meaning that the reach of most Instagram posts is capped at the number of people who follow the user’s account. (There are ways to “regram” someone else’s photo using a third-party app, but they’re clunky, and relatively few people use them. Instagram also recently began showing users posts from people they don’t follow, a Facebook-inspired change that I’d argue is a mistake.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A native share button has been tremendously useful for Facebook’s and Twitter’s growth. It has also allowed upstart media organizations like BuzzFeed and Upworthy to build enormous audiences by specializing in highly shareable stories. But ease of sharing has also allowed the loudest and most emotional voices to be rewarded with clicks — and attention. It’s this incentive structure that has allowed partisans and profiteers to hijack Facebook’s algorithms and spread divisive messages and false news to millions of people.The easy virality of Facebook also seems to have made individual users more hesitant about opening up. That makes sense — it’s easier to share a selfie if you know it won’t accidentally find its way into the feeds of a million strangers.Lesson No. 3: Ban links.Instagram’s greatest structural advantage, though, may be a result of its decision to go mostly link-free. Links in Instagram captions and comments aren’t clickable, and while some users have found workarounds, the vast majority of Instagram posts aren’t meant to send users to outside websites. (The exceptions are ads, which can contain clickable links and are, not coincidentally, the most troubled part of Instagram’s platform.)The walled-garden nature of Instagram has frustrated publishers, who want to send followers out to their websites, where the publishers can earn advertising money and “control the reader experience.” (It’s really just about the money.) But Instagram has wisely refused to give in, perhaps realizing that allowing links might turn the platform into a screeching bazaar, with publishers and pages all doing circus acts for clicks.Removing links from Facebook would wreak havoc on the digital media industry, which has built an economic model around referral traffic from Facebook. It would also risk alienating some users, who enjoy promoting and discussing stories from other parts of the internet. But it would also solve some of the platform’s most vexing challenges. And ultimately, it would be better for the world.After all, malicious actors don’t post fabricated news, wildly exaggerated headlines or partisan outrage-bait on Facebook only for fun. They do it, in many cases, because it’s profitable. Take away bad actors’ incentives and they’ll go elsewhere.Banning most links doesn’t seem to have hurt Instagram as a business. It had more than 800 million monthly active users as of September, and it gained a million new advertisers last year. Facebook doesn’t break out Instagram’s revenue, but some analysts expect the app could one day generate as much as $10 billion in annual revenue. That’s still nowhere near Facebook, which earned $10 billion in revenue last quarter alone, but it’s a meaningful number, and it shows that insularity isn’t always a bad thing.AdvertisementLesson No. 4: Bad actors are unavoidable, but their influence can be contained.Instagram is far from a perfect social network, and copying it wouldn’t fix all of Facebook’s problems overnight. Among other issues, some research has shown that use of Instagram can breed insecurity and bullying, and exacerbate body image issues, especially among young women.Instagram also hosts its own sketchy microeconomy — just witness the scourge of Insta-celebrities endorsing dubious health products, or the uptick in fly-by-night consumer brands that market themselves using Instagram ads.And Russian propagandists did use Instagram to try to influence American voters before the 2016 presidential election, with posts that reached as many as 20 million users. (Far less than the estimated 126 million people who were reached by Russian posts on Facebook, but a hefty number nonetheless.)But even these flaws are preferable to the structural problems that have plagued Facebook.Given the choice between a version of Facebook that made some of its users feel ugly and unpopular, and one that could be used to undermine democracies and promote misinformation around the world, I know which one I’d pick. A few billion Facebook users might agree.Email Kevin Roose at kevin.roose@nytimes.com, or follow him on Facebook at facebook.com/kevinroose and on Twitter: @kevinroose.A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: The App Facebook Aims to Be, It Already Owns.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Wordplay By                     
 DEB AMLEN
 
JAN. 10, 2018
SPECIAL POST — People from all walks of life sit down every day (Maybe some of you stand. Who am I to judge?) and solve puzzles to help satisfy that need to put the world in order and test their gray matter.One not-so-well-kept secret on the puzzle-making side of the business is that your favorite puzzle makers may have learned their trade from a more experienced constructor (Full disclosure: I owe my career to Nancy Salomon, who was incredibly patient with me as I learned the ropes.) Mentors are published constructors who give generously of their time and teach new constructors how to polish a theme, what good fill looks like and how to write clues. They are continually giving back to the puzzle community. We stand on their shoulders.Now, two puzzle makers, along with a group of constructors who are generously volunteering their time, would like to help diversify the pool of constructors who contribute to newspapers and magazines. Will Nediger, a 28-year-old professional puzzle maker from London, Ontario, and Erik Agard, a constructor from Gaithersburg, Maryland who makes puzzle for a variety of venues including the Indie 500 Crossword Tournament, have teamed up to encourage more women and people of color to learn the art of crossword puzzle construction.Mr. Nediger and Mr. Agard have created a public group on Facebook called the “Puzzle Collaboration Directory,” an online resource that will match aspiring puzzle makers with experienced constructors to help them learn the craft. While anyone is welcome to join and find a published constructor, the focus is on diversifying the rotation normally seen in newspaper and magazine puzzles.If a potential constructor has “patience, tenacity and [an aptitude for] lateral thinking,” they have what they need to become a good puzzle maker, says Mr. Nediger. And, Mr. Agard chimes in, “a love for solving puzzles. That’s all constructing is, in my opinion, a slightly different puzzle and with room for individuality.”Aspiring puzzlemakers who are not on Facebook can still access the mentors. This is a growing list, but contact any of the constructors here to get started:To learn more about becoming a crossword puzzle constructor and find a mentor to help you get started, join the Puzzle Collaboration Directory on Facebook.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Advertising By                     
 SAPNA MAHESHWARI
 
JAN. 21, 2018
Facebook made waves in the media industry with its recent announcement that it would put a new focus on “meaningful social interactions” with close friends and family in its News Feed — the column that people scroll through when they open the site — instead of content from publishers and brands.The company, which together with Google dominates the online advertising industry, has emphasized to ad agencies that the shift will mostly affect the visibility of publishers that have been able to reach readers for free through News Feed’s automated placement of their posts. It won’t, the company said, affect the sponsored posts that businesses pay to show people as they scroll.But several advertising executives have speculated that the new rules could ultimately fuel the social network’s long-held video ambitions.As advertisers examine the details that Facebook has shared so far, like reducing videos from publishers in the feed and giving priority to content that can “spark conversation,” some see an opening for the company’s nascent Facebook Watch video section and its live videos. And, of course, for the ad dollars that accompany such content.Advertisement“Facebook has been studying TV for a few years now, and they see there is a certain equation to the size and success of TV,” said Ben Winkler, the chief investment officer of the agency OMD. “It’s three elements: a high-quality user experience, prominent high-quality video and a curated, restricted supply of said video. What that equation results in is higher rates and stable, consistent ad dollars and growth — and Facebook is looking for ad growth.”AdvertisementWhile Facebook said that it wanted people to spend less time “passively” viewing content, including videos, it also extolled the robust discussions that often accompany live video streams. And last week it said it was testing a product, called Watch Party, that will allow groups to watch non-live videos together.More generally, video content is “among the most shared and commented-upon content on the web,” said Mr. Winkler, who expects videos will now be given priority over text posts on Facebook.Facebook is changing its site after a year in which the company came under governmental scrutiny for its role in spreading misinformation and hate speech. Separately, the company said on Friday that it would highlight high-quality news on the site by allowing people to rank news sources that they saw as the most credible and trustworthy.“There is a recognition that Facebook has been, for lack of a better word, toxic,” said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research. “If they have ideas around what the solution to that problem is, and it happens to clear the field for Facebook-owned and -operated content, that’s a happy coincidence.”Facebook makes most of its money from online ads — posting a net profit of $10.2 billion in 2016 — and has made it clear that it believes its future lies in video and video ads. Wall Street analysts regularly ask the company about its progress in attracting the hefty ad budgets that remain locked up in television despite cord cutting and the emergence of streaming platforms.Still, Facebook’s video tab, Watch, which was introduced in August, has been met with some skepticism.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“One of the things that Facebook has done here that it hasn’t necessarily done so much in the past is they let the ad model lead the consumer behavior versus the other way around,” said Sarah Hofstetter, the chief executive of the agency 360i. “Watch was built with the premise that ad dollars were coming to video and it would be smart for Facebook to have a video platform.”Ms. Hofstetter noted that Watch could potentially benefit if publishers that had relied heavily on Facebook traffic started making fewer videos now. “This, in turn,” she said, “could lead to less inventory and push advertisers towards the more premium videos within Facebook Watch.”AdvertisementPublishers could also respond by migrating their videos to Watch, where Facebook could sell more of the pre-roll ads with sound that run before YouTube videos, said Ben Hovaness, executive director of digital activation at Omnicom’s Hearts & Science agency.“You can think of the Watch tab as Facebook trying to have its own YouTube inside of it,” he added.Right now, said Mike Dossett, who leads digital strategy at the agency RPA, most Facebook video ads “show up as a sponsored video from a brand like any other post in your feed.”Mr. Dossett said he anticipated a broader transformation of what appeared on Facebook as the company focused on videos that inspired the active participation of its users, like live sports.“It’s interesting to see what that might turn into for the type of content Facebook is buying,” he said. “It’s going to pretty radically shift the type of video that is populating the platform.”A version of this article appears in print on January 22, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook Seen Steering Toward Video.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SHEERA FRENKEL and SAPNA MAHESHWARIJAN. 19, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook said on Friday that it planned to prioritize high-quality news on the social network by allowing its users to rank news sources that they see as the most credible and trustworthy.The initiative, which follows an overhaul that Facebook announced last week to emphasize posts, videos and photos shared by friends and family, will not increase the amount of news on the social network. But the move has implications for what news will be consumed on Facebook, potentially favoring the most familiar names in media that are seen as the most credible, while tilting away from lesser-known and less-trusted outlets without solving the issue of whether news could still be distorted.“There’s too much sensationalism, misinformation and polarization in the world today,” Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, wrote in a post on Friday. “We decided that having the community determine which sources are broadly trusted would be most objective.”The shift is another signal of Facebook’s ability — this time using the collective power of its more than two billion members worldwide — to play kingmaker with publishers. Many publishers have long relied on Facebook to reach audiences, and they largely reacted with disappointment last week when the company said it would play down news over all.AdvertisementThe move is also the most recent by Facebook to counter charges that not enough was being done to stamp out fake news and disinformation on its platform. The company was dogged by criticism in late 2016 after the presidential election that too many false stories attacking Hillary Clinton had spread on its site, that way affecting the election’s outcome. Last year, Facebook also acknowledged that Russian agents had used the site to spread divisive and polarizing ads and posts.AdvertisementThe same criticism has also engulfed other social media companies such as Twitter, which on Friday said it was emailing notifications to 677,775 people in the United States that they had interacted with Russian propaganda accounts around the time of the 2016 election.For publishers, Facebook’s new ranking system raised immediate concerns, including whether crowdsourcing users’ opinions on trustworthiness might be open to manipulation.“It is absolutely a positive move to start to try to separate the wheat from the chaff in terms of reputation and use brands as proxies for trust,” said Jason Kint, the chief executive of Digital Content Next, a trade group that represents entertainment and news organizations, including The New York Times. “But the devil’s in the details on how they’re going to actually execute on that.”He continued, “How does that get hacked or gamed? How do we trust the ranking system? There’s a slew of questions at this point.”The new system could also potentially favor publishers who are partisan. Facebook users, asked to rank which news they most trust, could choose sites that speak most clearly to their personal beliefs, in effect reducing the prominence of publishers who try to maintain an objective tone.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.David Kaye, the United Nations’ Special Rapporteur on freedom of expression, said that Facebook would probably face more difficult questions as it rolled out the new ranking program globally.“What will happen in situations where a community determines that a news source is trustworthy, but that news source is censored, or illegal, in that country?” asked Mr. Kaye, noting that in many parts of the world, governments controlled all official news channels while independent news sources were outlawed or forced to publish pseudo-anonymously.AdvertisementIn the past, he added, Facebook has abided by local rules where it operates abroad.“What will Mark Zuckerberg do when the needs of the community, in what it determines is trusted news, are different from what the government determines. Who will Facebook side with?” said Mr. Kaye.Raju Narisetti, the chief executive of the Gizmodo Media Group, the unit of Univision that operates Jezebel and other sites, said there was a “great irony” that Facebook, which has traditionally left decision up to an algorithm that incorporates the behaviors of its members, would open the decision-making to its users on such a matter. He added that the user-generated ranking system “is a massive abdication of its social responsibility, as a vital platform, to be a good custodian of the Fourth Estate globally.”Other experiments that Facebook has tried with news in the past have sometimes gone awry or had unintended consequences. For example, a recent test to remove all news publishers from the News Feed and to place them under a separate tab in six countries, including Bolivia and Slovakia, yielded an unexpected result of magnifying the amount of fake news on the platform.In his post on Friday, Mr. Zuckerberg said the newest change “will only shift the balance of news you see towards sources that are determined to be trusted by the community.”Facebook said news would be prioritized according to the new ranking system starting Monday, before expanding globally. Some Facebook users have already been asked to rank the trustworthiness of news sites which appear on the social network. In one survey, people were asked if they recognized a number of websites and then asked, ““How much do you trust each of these domains?” They were able to choose from a range of answers, including entirely, a lot, somewhat, barely and not at all.The Silicon Valley company said it would continue polling users to refine and select which news outlets garnered the most trust. It declined to say how many people were polled or which news outlets they were asked about.“As part of our ongoing quality surveys, we asked a diverse and representative sample of Facebook users across the U.S. to gauge their familiarity with, and trust in, sources of news,” said Todd Breasseale, a Facebook spokesman. “We boost links from sources with high trust scores and demote links from sources with low trust scores.”Mr. Zuckerberg has been moving Facebook toward taking more responsibility for what shows up on the social network, especially after the criticism over the 2016 election and the interference by Russian agents. Earlier this month, he described his 2018 goals as including “making sure that time spent on Facebook is time well spent.”In Friday’s post, he hinted that ranking the credibility of news sources was just one step, with more potential changes to come.Advertisement”I’ve asked our product teams to make sure we prioritize news that is trustworthy, informative, and local,” he wrote. “And we’re starting next week with trusted sources.”Sheera Frenkel reported from San Francisco and Sapna Maheshwari from New York.Follow Sheera Frenkel and Sapna Maheshwari on Twitter: @sheeraf and @sapnaA version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook Will Let Users Rank Credibility of News.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICKJAN. 17, 2018
LONDON — Facebook said on Wednesday it was reopening and broadening an internal investigation into the possibility that Russia had used the platform to influence the British vote to leave the European Union.Reports that the Kremlin had used Facebook and other social media to try to sway elections in the United States, France and other countries have raised widespread suspicions that it had played the same game in the June 2016 British referendum. Russia has long viewed the European Union as a threat, and promoting the groups that favored Britain’s leaving would be one way to weaken the bloc.But the possibility of Russian interference has threatened to further complicate the torturous negotiations with Brussels over Britain’s departure, known as Brexit, by undermining the credibility of the referendum.After the British Parliament asked Facebook, Twitter and other social media companies last year for information on any Russian efforts to sway the vote, Facebook said in December that it had found no evidence of manipulation.AdvertisementBut lawmakers complained that Facebook’s internal research had been inadequate, and on Wednesday, the social media giant acknowledged that its previous investigation had focused only on the Russian-linked accounts already identified by United States intelligence agencies as having been active in the 2016 presidential election.Advertisement“Our investigatory team is now looking to see if we can identify other similar clusters engaged in coordinated activity around the Brexit referendum that was not identified previously,” Simon Milner, Facebook’s policy director for Britain, wrote in a letter to Parliament.Facebook faces a greater challenge in identifying potential Russian activity around the Brexit vote — if any exists — because British intelligence agencies have not identified a list of suspected accounts, as the American agencies did.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We would be very interested in receiving any information, including intelligence assessments or reports, that you and the U.K. government may have that is relevant to this work,” Mr. Milner said in his letter, noting that the inquiry “requires detailed analysis of historic data by our security experts.”Academic researchers have analyzed information from other social media platforms such as Twitter, where data is more accessible, and a few have found indications of Russian activity but not conclusive evidence. Many have urged more disclosure by Facebook, Twitter and other companies, which possess internal information about users and payments.A study by the Oxford Internet Institute concluded there was scarce evidence that the Kremlin had exploited the social media platforms to influence the British vote.Damian Collins, the Conservative member of Parliament leading the inquiry, said in a statement, however, that “companies like Facebook should initiate their own research into issues like this, where there is such clear public concern, and not just act on intelligence that has been passed to them.”“They are best placed to investigate activity on their platform.”A version of this article appears in print on January 18, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook Reviews Meddling in ‘Brexit’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Noam CohenDECADES ago, the brilliant satirist Tom Lehrer skewered the engineer’s willful ignorance of the consequences of his designs in a ditty about Wernher von Braun, the scientist who moved from Nazi Germany’s rocket factories to the United States space program. “Once the rockets are up, who cares where they come down?” Mr. Lehrer sings. “That’s not my department, says Wernher von Braun.”But Mr. Lehrer’s target was bigger than engineers who could focus only on the research in front of them. There was no amoral approach to science, Mr. Lehrer reminded us. Seeing science and the tools and connections it provides as a good in itself is profoundly dangerous and wrong.Founded by young computer engineers, Facebook, Google and other Silicon Valley companies have been happy to view their powerful inventions as neutral platforms. Once the posts are up, who cares where they come down? These companies have converted an engineer’s disregard for real-world outcomes into a libertarian ideology that belittles the harms that stem from their platforms and rejects rules and regulations meant to prevent those harms.In a recent essay, Sam Altman, the president of the influential tech incubator Y Combinator, denounced “political correctness” as a danger to economic progress. “This is uncomfortable,” he wrote on his blog, “but it’s possible we have to allow people to say disparaging things about gay people if we want them to be able to say novel things about physics.”It’s easy to find similarly blunt statements from Silicon Valley leaders. For example, when a French official described her determination to encourage tech innovation without extreme income inequality, the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen responded mockingly on Twitter: “Capitalism, without all that messy capitalism!” And when India rejected a proposal from Facebook to introduce a free version of internet access that was limited to Facebook and a small assortment of other sites, Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, responded more in sorrow than anger. “History tells us that helping people is always a better path then shutting them out,” he explained, gliding past the Indian government’s argument that introducing incomplete access to the internet was a worse path.But 2018, it seems, is going to represent what Silicon Valley would call “an inflection point” on the morality graph. Facebook is leading the charge, with the announcement last week by Mr. Zuckerberg that the company felt “a responsibility to make sure our services aren’t just fun to use, but also good for people’s well-being.” In practical terms, this means that Facebook will be reducing the amount of so-called public content — often provocative posts from businesses and news organizations — in favor of personal content, posts from friends and family.The public faces the unsatisfying question: Is it better to suffer an engineer’s neglect or an engineer’s concern?Since Facebook’s earliest days, Mr. Zuckerberg has been fascinated by the power to understand and manipulate users by applying algorithms to the data it collects. In 2005, speaking at Stanford, he described how he and a friend were “seeing if we could use the information that we had to compute who we thought were going to be in relationships. So, we tested this about a week later, and we realized that we had over a third chance of predicting whether two people were going to be in a relationship a week from now.” Through this deep knowledge of its users, Mr. Zuckerberg explained, Facebook could determine “what actually matters to each person on a more granular level.”More than a decade later, Facebook is still using these social-engineering tools to probe its users’ psyches. Now, however, the company, which reported $4.7 billion in profits in the third quarter, assures us that these tools will be refashioned to take account of the health of our society. In December, Facebook’s researchers tried to answer the question of whether social networks were a force for good and returned with a split verdict.“When people spend a lot of time passively consuming information — reading but not interacting with people — they report feeling worse afterward,” the company said. By contrast, “actively interacting with people — especially sharing messages, posts and comments with close friends and reminiscing about past interactions — is linked to improvements in well-being.”Mr. Zuckerberg says Facebook will be steering users to healthier interactions. “I expect the time people spend on Facebook and some measures of engagement will go down,” he wrote in a post on Facebook. “But I also expect the time you do spend on Facebook will be more valuable. And if we do the right thing, I believe that will be good for our community and our business over the long term too.”At age 33, Mr. Zuckerberg is already worried about his good name, but unlike past business titans — Rockefeller, Carnegie, Gates — he doesn’t think he needs to wait until after he has built his empire to do good. Mr. Zuckerberg says he is making changes to Facebook so that when his young daughters, Max and August, grow up, they will “feel like what their father built was good for the world.”So what does Mark Zuckerberg think makes the world good? In an open letter, published upon Max’s birth in 2015, Mr. Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, laid out some goals. First, was “advancing human potential,” which they described as “pushing the boundaries on how great a human life can be.” Most intriguingly, they posited that someday we could “learn and experience 100 times more than we do today.”The other was “promoting equality,” which they defined as “making sure everyone has access to these opportunities — regardless of the nation, families or circumstances they are born into.” Often, “access” appears to mean relying on the internet to provide an education or work opportunity. Connecting people is what keeps society churning, improving. “For every 10 people who gain internet access, about one person is lifted out of poverty and about one new job is created,” they wrote.Turns out, an enlightened, socially engaged Facebook has a similar outlook as the amoral, audience-seeking Facebook. Each sees connecting online as key to the good life.In other words, don’t count on Facebook to disrupt Facebook any time soon.Noam Cohen is the author of “The Know-It-Alls: The Rise of Silicon Valley as a Political Powerhouse and Social Wrecking Ball.”I invite you to join me on Twitter, @noamcohen.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy MIKE ISAACJAN. 11, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook has introduced sweeping changes to the kinds of posts, videos and photos that its more than two billion members will see most often, saying on Thursday that it would prioritize what their friends and family share and comment on while de-emphasizing content from publishers and brands.The shift is the most significant overhaul in years to Facebook’s News Feed, the cascading screen of content that people see when they log into the social network. Over the next few weeks, users will begin seeing fewer viral videos and news articles shared by media companies. Instead, Facebook will highlight posts that friends have interacted with — for example, a photo of your dog or a status update that many of them have commented on or liked.The changes are intended to maximize the amount of content with “meaningful interaction” that people consume on Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, said in an interview. Facebook, he said, had closely studied what kinds of posts had stressed or harmed users. The social network wants to reduce what Mr. Zuckerberg called “passive content” — videos and articles that ask little more of the viewer than to sit back and watch or read — so that users’ time on the site was well spent.“We want to make sure that our products are not just fun, but are good for people,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “We need to refocus the system.”AdvertisementThursday’s changes raise questions of whether people may end up seeing more content that reinforces their own ideologies if they end up frequently interacting with posts and videos that reflect the similar views of their friends or family. And bogus news may still spread — if a relative or friend posts a link with an inaccurate news article that is widely commented on, that post will be prominently displayed.The goal of the overhaul, ultimately, is for something less quantifiable that may be difficult to achieve: Facebook wants people to feel positive, rather than negative, after visiting.Advertisement“When people are engaging with people they’re close to, it’s more meaningful, more fulfilling,” said David Ginsberg, director of research at Facebook. “It’s good for your well-being.”Facebook has been under fire for months over what it shows people and whether its site has negatively influenced millions of its users. The company has been dogged by questions about how its algorithms may have prioritized misleading news and misinformation in News Feeds, influencing the 2016 American presidential election as well as political discourse in many countries. Last year, Facebook disclosed that Russian agents had used the social network to spread divisive and inflammatory posts and ads to polarize the American electorate.Those issues have landed Facebook in front of lawmakers, who have grilled the company about its influence last year. Next Wednesday, Facebook is set to appear at another hearing on Capitol Hill, along with Twitter and YouTube, about the online spread of extremist propaganda.The repercussions from Facebook’s new News Feed changes will almost certainly be far-reaching. Publishers, nonprofits, small business and many other groups rely on the social network to reach people, so de-emphasizing their posts will most likely hurt them. Adam Mosseri, vice president of product management at Facebook, who is responsible for running the News Feed, acknowledged that “there will be anxiety” from partners and publishers who often complain about the constant changes in what will be shown across the network.The change may also work against Facebook’s immediate business interests. The company has long pushed users to spend more time on the social network. With different, less viral types of content surfacing more often, people could end up spending their time elsewhere. Mr. Zuckerberg said that was in fact Facebook’s expectation, but that if people end up feeling better about using the social network, the business will ultimately benefit.Changes to Facebook’s News Feed are not new. The Silicon Valley company constantly experiments with what shows up in the News Feed, and in the past it has also said it would prioritize posts from users’ friends and family. But Thursday’s shift goes beyond previous changes by prioritizing posts that have generated substantive interactions. A long comment on a family member’s photo, for instance, might be highlighted in the News Feed above a video that has fewer comments or interactions between people.AdvertisementFacebook has conducted research and worked with outside academics for months to examine the effects that its service has on people. The work was spurred by criticism from politicians, academics, the media and others that Facebook had not adequately considered its responsibility for what it shows its users.After the 2016 election, for instance, Mr. Zuckerberg initially shrugged off qualms about Facebook’s effect on the outcome, even as outsiders pointed to the proliferation of fake news stories on the site that had attacked Hillary Clinton. Mr. Zuckerberg later said he had been too hasty and dismissive of the concerns. More recently, he began signaling that Facebook was rethinking what it shows people on the site.Last week, he posted on Facebook about his goals for 2018, including “making sure that time spent on Facebook is time well spent” and adding that “this will be a serious year of self-improvement and I’m looking forward to learning from working to fix our issues together.”The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Thursday, he said many of the discussions about Facebook’s responsibilities had prompted the company “to get a better handle on some of the negative things that could happen in the system.”“Just because a tool can be used for good and bad, that doesn’t make the tool bad — it just means you need to understand what the negative is so that you can mitigate it,” he said.Facebook and other researchers have particularly homed in on passive content. In surveys of Facebook users, people said they felt the site had shifted too far away from friends and family-related content, especially amid a swell of outside posts from brands, publishers and media companies.“This big wave of public content has really made us reflect: What are we really here to do?” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “If what we’re here to do is help people build relationships, then we need to adjust.”Mr. Zuckerberg said he was now focusing his company around the new approach. Product managers are being asked to “facilitate the most meaningful interactions between people,” rather than the previous mandate of helping people find the most meaningful content, he said.Mr. Zuckerberg added that his way of running Facebook has shifted since the birth of his two daughters, Maxima and August, in recent years. He said he had rethought the way he views his and Facebook’s legacy, even if it will cost the company in the short term.Advertisement“It’s important to me that when Max and August grow up that they feel like what their father built was good for the world,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaacA version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook Feed Shifting Focus To Genial Ties.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 12, 2018
Good Friday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Are Facebook’s changes good for investors?• JPMorgan’s earnings beat can’t mask Wall Street’s malaise.• JPMorgan takes hit tied to Steinhoff’s woes.• U.S. Supreme Court will hear a challenge to S.E.C.’s in-house judges.• BlackRock is now a $6 trillion firm.Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.Robert Cyran of Breakingviews argues that the answer is yes, at least in the long run. Here’s his point:“Possible changes like favoring reputable news sources over more sensational ones, as Facebook is considering according to the Wall Street Journal, will probably hurt the company financially over the short run. Time spent on the site by users will probably fall, and that means advertising will grow more slowly. That helps explain the 4 percent decline in the company’s shares by early afternoon on Friday. It’s worth it over the long term, however, if it keeps users sufficiently content to remain on the Facebook farm.The highlights from the big bank’s latest earnings release:• $4.2 billion in net income for the fourth quarter, down 34 percent because of $2.4 billion worth of charges related to the new tax law.• Excluding the tax-related charges, the bank earned $1.76 per share. Analysts on average had expected $1.69.Advertisement• Investment banking revenue was up 10 percent, at $1.6 billion.• Fixed-income trading was down 34 percent, while stock markets revenue was flat.AdvertisementThe bigger pictureThe onetime engine of Wall Street’s enviable performance, fixed-income trading, is still sputtering, thanks to new regulations, disruptive technologies and calmer markets.More from Emily Flitter and Kate Kelly in the NYT:Five years ago, fixed-income trading — so called because its keystone product, bonds, typically provides a fixed payout — generated nearly $103 billion in income for the top 12 investment banks, according to Coalition, a London research firm. By 2016, that had fallen to less than $76 billion — down $27 billion from the peak.Tucked into JPMorgan's earnings this morning was a $143 million mark-to-market loss the bank disclosed on a “margin loan to a single client.”That client is Steinhoff International Holdings, according to reports.Early last month the giant South African retailer, which owns American mattress maker Sleepy’s, said it had discovered accounting irregularities. Its shares tumbled 78 percent on the news.How does this effect J.P. Morgan? The bank was not among the initial group of lenders on the margin loan “to an entity controlled by Steinhoff’s then chairman Christo Wiese to purchase additional shares in the company in the fall of 2016.” But, as the WSJ reports, “losses from the margin loan were expected to have been spread among a wider group of banks.”“The borrowing entity pledged 628 million Steinhoff shares as collateral on the loan, according to a company statement at the time. After the share price collapse, however, that collateral has little value relative to the debt.”How often does the Supreme Court agree to review a decision in which the two sides agree the lower court was wrong?That odd situation will play out in Lucia v. Securities and Exchange Commission in which the justices will consider whether administrative law judges used by the S.E.C. are “officers” under the Constitution Appointments Clause. If they are, then they can only be put in office by the president, a head of a department, or the judiciary.This obscure provision burst on the scene about two years ago when defendants challenged how the S.E.C. picked its in-house judges [link below].AdvertisementThe S.E.C. became more aggressive in pursuing administrative cases in the wake of the Dodd-Frank Act. The law expanded the S.E.C.’s authority to bring most cases in its administrative court rather than going into a federal district court, depriving defendants of discovery rights and a jury to decide the case.Defendants argued the judges are not mere employees but “officers” so the proceeding was unconstitutional. Needless to say, the S.E.C. disagreed and argued before the appeals courts that there was no issue regarding their constitutional status.The S.E.C. won the case before the federal appeals court in Washington, D.C. but lost in the Tenth Circuit. Then the Justice Department flipped the script. In late November, the solicitor general’s office filed a brief [link below] with the Supreme Court stating that the judges had not been properly appointed because they are “officers” under the Constitution.The key issue is whether other agencies beyond the S.E.C. that use in-house judges will also have to change how they are appointed. The impact of the decision could be significant if previously decided cases will have to be reheard before a properly appointed judge, creating a mess that could take years to sort out.-- Peter J. HenningContinuing to cash in on the boom in exchange-traded funds, the world’s largest money manager ended 2017 with $6.3 trillion under management up 22 percent for the year.BlackRock reported adjusted net earnings of $3.7 billion for the year on Friday, up 16 percent for the year and easily beating analyst expectations. The firm also reported a $1.2 billion tax benefit for the fourth quarter, resulting from the recent tax cut package. Including the tax benefit, earnings were up 59 percent for the year.BlackRock has been one of the main beneficiaries of the current bull market. Money has flowed over the past nine years into passive investment funds that track a wide variety of indexes and strategies at minimal cost.Of the $367 billion in net inflows that BlackRock took in last year, $245 billion came via the firm’s iShares suite of E.T.F.s.AdvertisementIncreasingly investors are using E.T.F.’s to make bets on the stock and bond markets as opposed to buying the individual securities themselves.— Landon Thomas Jr.The famous oilman and investment manager is shutting his energy-focused hedge fund as his health declines, the WSJ reports.Mr. Pickens wrote in a letter that he plans to publish soon and was reviewed by The Wall Street Journal:“It’s no secret the past year has not been good to me, from a health perspective or a financial one. If you are lucky enough to make it to 89 years of age like I have, those things tend to put life in perspective.”“Trading oil is not as intriguing to me as it once was.”Yesterday morning, six senators looked near a bipartisan deal on how to protect the class of young unauthorized immigrants known as Dreamers. That would have pleased the 142 business leaders who had pleaded for one.Then “shithole” happened.Leaving aside the controversy over the vulgarity, President Trump’s reported remarks — which he says weren’t quite like that — exposed his skepticism about the contours of a proposal presented to him by the senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois.Democrats want a clean bill to protect the immigrants, but Mr. Trump questioned why immigrants from Haiti and parts of Africa should be protected too.Other Republicans expressed skepticism as well. Senator John Cornyn of Texas said, “We need to have more than six votes for a proposal.”The Washington flyaround• Inside the fractious relationship between the president and his party. (Time)• Steven Mnuchin defended Mr. Trump’s planned visit to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, with the improbable assertion that it isn’t “a hangout for globalists.” (Axios)Advertisement• How Mr. Mnuchin is expanding his influence within the administration, to colleagues’ consternation. (Politico)The retail giant initially won praise for announcing that it was raising hourly wages to $11, expanding parental leave benefits and offering U.S. employees bonuses of up to $1,000.But then:• People calculated how much — or little — it would all cost. The $300 million bill for the new hourly rate amounts to “just 0.3 percent of the company’s sales and administration costs.” One analyst calculated Walmart’s overall tax savings at about $2.2 billion.• Critics pointed out that Walmart would probably have had to raise wages anyway, given the tight labor market and competition from rivals like Target.• Walmart said it was closing 63 Sam’s Club stores, and trying to find jobs for affected employees.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The tax flyaround• Fiat Chrysler announced $2,000 bonuses for about 60,000 workers and plans to move some truck production to Michigan from Mexico. (WSJ)• Delta said yesterday that the tax changes would help it in two ways: via a lower corporate rate, and via other businesses spending some of their savings on travel. (Reuters)• Bill Dudley, the New York Fed’s president, said the cuts would probably prompt rate increases. (FT)Advertisement• The Treasury Department is encouraging companies to incorporate the new, lower withholding rates as soon as possible, so benefits will show sooner. (NYT)• Companies like Apple whose fiscal years don’t match the calendar year could use a loophole for even bigger gains. (Bloomberg)With its confidential filing with the S.E.C., the online file storage company will be the latest Silicon Valley unicorn to attempt a transition to the public markets — by spring, it hopes.One big question: What will Dropbox be valued at? Private market investors reckoned $10 billion. And can it command a higher valuation than its rival Box?What’s next: Dropbox has already hired Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase as underwriters, and will appoint more. It will then work on formalizing its prospectus and arrange meetings with analysts and, eventually, prospective investors.The other big question: Will Dropbox be more like Stitch Fix (up 66 percent since its I.P.O.) or Snap (down 40 percent)?What to expect: More status updates by family or photos of your friend’s Bernese mountain dog. And fewer posts by publishers.What publishers fear, as expressed by Jason Kint of Digital Content Next to Sydney Ember and Sapna Maheshwari of the NYT:“If this change is as significant as they describe it, news organizations will go out of business or succeed based on a change that they didn’t necessarily have input on,” Mr. Kint said. “It reads as something that will drive up engagement and probably push away policy risk, because they’re not allowing news properties to have the same sort of presence in their feeds.”Mark Zuckerberg acknowledged that could hit Facebook’s business in the short term. Its shares were down 2.6 percent in premarket trading this morning.AdvertisementThe bigger pointThe company and Mr. Zuckerberg are considering how to reshape their products in the face of an array of critics, from Congress and other governments to user privacy advocates. “We want to make sure that our products are not just fun, but are good for people,” Mr. Zuckerberg told Mike Isaac of the NYT.Being accused of harassing a female journalist — Lauren Tara LaCapra of Reuters said he tried to pull her into an elevator to go to a cocktail lounge — helped hasten a downfall years in the making.What Morgan Stanley officials felt, according to Kate Kelly and Andrew in the NYT:Even though the harassment charge was never corroborated, they said, the bank found evidence that Mr. Ford had misled executives about some of his behavior, which itself constituted cause to remove him. And they say Mr. Ford already had received a final written warning about abuse of his expense account and other conduct.Mr. Ford and his lawyers argue otherwise and said Ms. LaCapra’s account was false.Where is Wall Street’s #MeToo moment?Keep waiting. More than most industries, finance can force cases into arbitration. And there’s the money, as the wealth manager Jennifer Hatch told Max Abelson of Bloomberg:“People spend their entire educational and professional career trying to get to this pot of gold, and some guy dropping his drawers is not going to get in the way of that,” she says.The misconduct flyaround• DFJ has apologized for an event hosted by a co-founder, Steve Jurvetson, that a book by the Bloomberg reporter Emily Chang described as featuring rampant sex and drug use. (Recode)• Daniel Ek, the C.E.O. of Spotify, has backed the #MeToo movement, saying his company had a lot to do on gender bias. (Politico)• University students and faculty worldwide have been describing harassment in an anonymous crowdsourced spreadsheet. (WSJ)Tax professionals are getting more questions from Bitcoin sellers, and the I.R.S. is also showing interest.More from Brian Fung of the WaPo:In a recent court battle, the I.R.S. forced Coinbase, one of the largest U.S.-based exchanges where consumers can buy bitcoin for dollars, to provide taxpayer information on more than 14,000 customers. The I.R.S. did not single out any customer for suspicion in the suit but did say it believed gains from virtual currency “are underreported.”The digital money flyaround• Shares in the money-transfer services provider MoneyGram rose after it said it was testing Ripple’s XRP. (MoneyGram)Advertisement• At least a dozen Chinese companies played down their blockchain connections amid signs that regulators are trying to limit speculative surges. (Bloomberg)• The top Wall Street lawyer Rodge Cohen said it was a matter of time until U.S. regulators began a sweeping response to Bitcoin. (Bloomberg)• Coin miners are straining the infrastructure of a small county in Washington state where electricity is cheap. (CNBC)• Peter Thiel offered to purchase some assets from what’s left of Gawker. (Reuters)• The rapper Drake wants to take his whiskey company public through a Regulation A+ offering, a type of crowdsourced fund-raising. (FT)• The French conglomerate Kering said it would spin off the sports brand Puma, and focus on luxury. (NYT)• Goldman Sachs’s private equity arm and Vestar Capital Partners are exploring a sale of the food manufacturer Hearthside Food Solutions, for about $2.5 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. (Bloomberg)• Maoyan Weying, China’s biggest online film ticketing platform, is planning an initial public offering in Hong Kong that could raise about $1 billion, according to people with knowledge of the matter. (Bloomberg)• Fidelity Investments, Principal Funds and BlackRock disclosed lower valuations for Uber after SoftBank purchased shares at a 30 percent discount. (Recode)Advertisement• The for-profit health insurance company Centene was sued by customers who said it had failed to provide adequate access to doctors in 15 states. (NYT)• Dish Network, CBS, 21st Century Fox, Netflix and Starz have given the Justice Department information for its case against AT&T’s proposed deal with Time Warner, according to unnamed sources. (WSJ)• Fujifilm, which is in talks with Xerox, has reinvented itself and plans to spend more than $4 billion over the next three years on acquisitions. (WSJ)• The alleged theft of exchange-traded funds worth $1.4 billion has raised an question for the industry: Who owns an E.T.F.? (WSJ)• Qualcomm is set to clinch conditional E.U. antitrust approval for its $39 billion acquisition of NXP Semiconductors as soon as next week, according to unidentified sources. (WSJ)• Iran’s protests were fueled by anger over losses at loosely regulated credit institutions, which affected millions of people. (WSJ)Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SHEERA FRENKEL, NICHOLAS CASEY and PAUL MOZURJAN. 14, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — One morning in October, the editors of Página Siete, Bolivia’s third-largest news site, noticed that traffic to their outlet coming from Facebook was plummeting.The publication had recently been hit by cyberattacks, and editors feared it was being targeted by hackers loyal to the government of President Evo Morales.But it wasn’t the government’s fault. It was Facebook’s. The Silicon Valley company was testing a new version of its hugely popular News Feed, peeling off professional news sites from what people normally see and relegating them to a new section of Facebook called Explore. Like it or not, Bolivia had become a guinea pig in the company’s continual quest to reinvent itself.As Facebook updates and tweaks its service in order to keep users glued to their screens, countries like Bolivia are ideal testing grounds thanks to their growing, internet-savvy populations. But these changes can have significant consequences, like limiting the audience for nongovernmental news sources and — surprisingly — amplifying the impact of fabricated and sensational stories.AdvertisementOn Thursday, Facebook announced plans to make similar changes to its News Feed around the world. The company said it was trying to increase “meaningful interaction” on its site by drawing attention to content from family and friends while de-emphasizing content from brands and publishers, including The New York Times.AdvertisementThe changes are being made as the company finds itself embroiled in a larger debate over its role in spreading fake news and misinformation aimed at influencing elections in the United States and other nations.Facebook said these News Feed modifications were not identical to those introduced last fall in six countries through its Explore program, but both alterations favor posts from friends and family over professional news sites. And what happened in those countries illustrates the unintended consequences of such a change in an online service that now has a global reach of more than two billion people every month.In Slovakia, where right-wing nationalists took nearly 10 percent of Parliament in 2016, publishers said the changes had actually helped promote fake news. With official news organizations forced to spend money to place themselves in the News Feed, it is now up to users to share information.“People usually don’t share boring news with boring facts,” said Filip Struharik, the social media editor of Denník N, a Slovakian subscription news site that saw a 30 percent drop in Facebook engagement after the changes. Mr. Struharik, who has been cataloging the effects of Facebook Explore through a monthly tally, has noted a steady rise in engagement on sites that publish fake or sensationalist news.A bogus news story that spread in December illustrates the problem, Mr. Struharik said. The story claimed that a Muslim man had thanked a good Samaritan for returning his lost wallet, and had warned the Samaritan of a terrorist attack that was planned at a Christmas market.The fabricated story circulated so widely that the local police issued a statement saying it wasn’t true. But when the police went to issue the warning on Facebook, they found that the message — unlike the fake news story they meant to combat — could no longer appear on News Feed because it came from an official account.Facebook explained its goals for the Explore program in Slovakia, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Bolivia, Guatemala and Serbia in a blog post in October. “The goal of this test is to understand if people prefer to have separate places for personal and public content,” wrote Adam Mosseri, head of Facebook’s News Feed. “There is no current plan to roll this out beyond these test countries.”AdvertisementThe company did not respond to a list of questions about the Explore program, but Mr. Mosseri said in a statement on Friday that the company took its role as a “global platform for information” seriously.“We have a responsibility to the people who read, watch and share news on Facebook, and every test is done with that responsibility in mind,” he said.The impact of the changes to the News Feed were also felt in Cambodia. Months into the experiment (Facebook hasn’t said when it will end), Cambodians still don’t know where to find trusted, established news on Facebook, said Stuart White, editor of The Phnom Penh Post, an English-language newspaper.Nongovernmental organizations working on issues like education and health care also complained that the changes broke down lines of communication to Cambodians in need.Facebook has become particularly important in Cambodia. The country’s leader, Hun Sen, has cracked down on political opponents, activists and media, effectively transforming the struggling democracy into a one-party state. Journalists have been arrested, newspapers have been shut down, and Facebook has emerged as an important, more independent channel for information.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That is, if you can find that information. Mr. White recalled a conversation this month with a friend who casually observed the lack of political conversation on Facebook.“He said he thought the government had banned politics on Facebook,” Mr. White said. “He had no idea that Facebook had created Explore or was placing news there. He’s a young, urbanite, English-speaking Cambodian. If he didn’t know about it, what do you think the effects are on other parts of the country?”In Bolivia, the alterations to the News Feed also occurred in a country where the government and the press have found themselves at odds, with news sites like Página Siete frequently criticizing Mr. Morales, a left-wing populist who has accumulated enormous power since being elected president in 2006.“We became the only media to take on the government,” said Rodolfo Huallpa, the web editor of Página Siete. Half of the site’s traffic came from social media, with the lion’s share of that from Facebook, he said. Since Explore was introduced, overall web traffic to the site has dropped 20 percent.The loss of visitors from Facebook was readily apparent in October, and Mr. Huallpa could communicate with Facebook only through a customer service form letter. He received an automatic reply in return.AdvertisementAfter complaints from other outlets, Facebook eventually released a statement on a blog in Spanish explaining the Explore feature and the testing being done in Bolivia and other countries. But Facebook offered no means to contact it, Mr. Huallpa said.“We can’t talk to Zuckerberg, we can’t even talk to a customer service representative,” said Isabel Mercado, the editor of Página Siete, referring to Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg.The Explore experiment has reduced traffic by 30 to 60 percent at the website of Los Tiempos, the main newspaper of Cochabamba, the country’s fourth-largest city, said Fabiola Chambi, the publication’s web editor.Ms. Chambi, however, fears the main consequence of the Explore function will be deepening polarization in a country already divided by ideology. “It’s good to see things from your friends and your family, but there needs to be diversity of information,” she said. “The miscellany is good.”Bolivia has also seen an increase in fake news as the established news sites are tucked behind the Explore function.During nationwide judicial elections in December, one post widely shared on Facebook claimed to be from an election official saying votes would be valid only if an X was marked next to the candidate’s name. Another post that day said government officials had put pens with erasable ink in the voting booths.Vladimir Tirado, a social media expert in Bolivia, said the government might simply begin paying for posts to appear on users’ News Feeds, an option that he said most newsrooms could not afford.Advertisement“Whoever has more money will appear more,” Mr. Tirado said. “In this sense, the government will certainly win.”Ms. Chambi of Los Tiempos said her newsroom hardly had enough money to pay its journalists to report stories, let alone to distribute them as paid posts on Facebook. The situation has left her uneasy about the role that the tech giant may play in her country.“It’s a private company — they have the right to do as they please, of course,” she said. “But the first question we asked is ‘Why Bolivia?’ And we don’t even have the possibility of asking why. Why us?”Sheera Frenkel reported from San Francisco; Nicholas Casey from La Paz, Bolivia; and Paul Mozur from Shanghai. Monica Machicao contributed reporting from La Paz.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Test Countries For Facebook Illustrate Risk.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JONAH ENGEL BROMWICH and MATTHEW HAAGJAN. 12, 2018
Facebook has overhauled how it ranks the posts, videos and photos that appear in its users’ News Feeds, introducing major changes on Thursday designed to put what friends and family have to say first.In short, you’ll see more posts from friends that have spurred lively debates in the comments. And you’ll see fewer cooking videos from brands and publications. Prioritizing what your friends and family share is part of an effort by Facebook to help people spend time on the site in what it thinks is a more meaningful way.Facebook is making the changes by tinkering under the hood, reconfiguring its algorithms that guess what you may be most interested in. Here’s what it means for you.Facebook is not being coy about this: Those third-party organizations that took over large swaths of your News Feed years ago — sites that post funny pictures and memes, sell you clothing, or deliver articles about the world — will have the visibility of their posts scaled back under the new arrangement.AdvertisementIn a post on the company’s blog Thursday, the head of its News Feed team, Adam Mosseri, wrote that showing more posts from friends and family “means we’ll show less public content, including videos and other posts from publishers or businesses.”AdvertisementFor many people, that news will come as a relief. In December, Facebook itself acknowledged that passive consumption of information — surfing shopping websites or reading news articles like this one — is often bad for your mood. (Sorry!)It gestured toward a 2015 paper in the Journal of Experimental Psychology that showed that passive usage of the website, even for just 10 minutes a day, had a negative effect on students’ sense of well-being.Those who still want to see posts from their favorite brands and trusted, wonderful publishers, one of whose articles you may be reading at this very moment, will be able to. The options under the News Feed tab on Facebook will allow users to prioritize the pages (and friends) whose posts they are most interested in.And Mr. Mosseri explained that other posts that your Facebook connections find engaging will also rise to the top. Conversations stemming from live videos, celebrities’ posts, private groups and other highly interactive post types will be among those highlighted on the new News Feed.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Without that kind of explicit direction, though, Facebook’s top priority will remain posts from your friends and family.“To do this, we will predict which posts you might want to interact with your friends about, and show these posts higher in feed,” Mr. Mosseri wrote. A video attached to his post said that indicators the algorithm takes into account are likes, comments and shares.Facebook will remain customizable, with the options that allow you to limit your exposure to certain people — even if those people are your pesky siblings or that one over-the-top uncle. One option is to quietly “snooze” a Facebook friend, which will cause their posts to disappear from your feed for 30 days.Facebook says that it has long been its policy that “friends and family come first,” language that appeared in the site’s “News Feed Values,” which were posted in 2016.AdvertisementImplicit in the changes that Facebook introduced this week is that for many users, the News Feed had become mindless scrolling, moving from one autoplaying video to the next, without offering people much of substance. It was serving up junk food.In an interview with The New York Times, Mark Zuckerberg said that it was the company’s expectation that many users would be gravitating to other sites to get their viral fix. But with more than two billion monthly users, Facebook has gained a foothold that allows it to play a longer game. And Mr. Zuckerberg said that if people begin to feel better while on the site, that Facebook’s business, and its users, will benefit.“I expect the time people spend on Facebook and some measures of engagement will go down,” he said in his post about the changes. “But I also expect the time you do spend on Facebook will be more valuable.”Follow Jonah Bromwich on Twitter: @Jonesieman. Follow Matthew Haag on Twitter: @MatthewHaag.A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: What Facebook’s Changes  Mean for Your News Feed,  And the Company’s Future.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PAUL MOZURJAN. 19, 2018
HONG KONG — The executive in charge of Facebook’s efforts to court China has left the company, a fresh setback for the social network as it seeks to get its products into China’s huge internet market.Wang-Li Moser, who as Facebook’s lead liaison with Beijing had become a symbol of its ambitions in the country, resigned in December, according to two people familiar with the matter.Ms. Moser had been brought in from Intel to professionalize Facebook’s efforts to court China’s government. Her job was a tough one. She set up and presided over negotiations between China’s most powerful officials and a social network that many of them believed could be perilously destabilizing.She also had to manage broader trade and security frictions between China and the United States. China blocks Facebook and most other major American internet companies, fearing the products could be used to undermine the government. Google, Twitter and Snapchat are all inaccessible within China. Apple and Amazon must use local partners to offer cloud services.AdvertisementDuring her roughly three-year tenure, Ms. Moser worked behind the scenes as Facebook waged a charm campaign to get back into the country. As part of those efforts, Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, showed off his Mandarin, did a promotional jog through a polluted Tiananmen Square and dined with President Xi Jinping.AdvertisementMs. Moser’s departure, after she failed to achieve any major breakthrough in China, underscores the challenges, and setbacks, Facebook has faced as it seeks to gain entry to one of the world’s largest — and most closed off — internet markets.Along with Mr. Zuckerberg’s high-profile appearances in China, Facebook has quietly tried numerous other strategies to gain access. The company worked internally on a tool that would allow targeted censorship, even as some employees quit over the project. The tool has thus far not been used.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last year, Facebook  took the novel approach of releasing an app in China without putting its name to the product. Called Colorful Balloons, the app is an almost exact copy of Facebook’s own photo-sharing app Moments. Considered a sort of trial balloon to better understand the market, the app was introduced anonymously by Facebook through a separate company. It appears to be no longer available in app stores in China.Stepping into the role of government liaison will be William Shuai, a former government relations executive at the Chinese search engine Baidu and the American social network LinkedIn. Before holding those positions, Mr. Shuai was briefly a low-level official in the Chinese government.For Facebook, which declined to comment on Ms. Moser’s departure, getting into China remains a major priority. China is Facebook’s largest market for ad spending in Asia, even though it is blocked in the country. Chinese companies, local governments and the state news media all use advertising on Facebook as a way to reach beyond Chinese borders.There are both signs of progress and problems for the company’s efforts to enter China.Facebook has been quietly scouting Shanghai for an office, and late last year Mr. Zuckerberg was among several executives who met President Xi shortly after China’s leaders held the 19th Communist Party Congress.But in the lead-up to the party congress, Chinese censors blocked the company’s last major viable product in China, WhatsApp. The chat app remains mostly unusable in the country.Carolyn Zhang contributed research from Shanghai.A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook Executive Who Led Efforts to Charm China Is Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By FARHAD MANJOOJAN. 12, 2018
Each week, Farhad Manjoo, technology columnist at The New York Times, reviews the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, readers! Usually in this space, my colleague Mike Isaac and I chat about the week’s tech news. But Mike is now fixing to become a big-time author. For the next few months, he’ll be out on book leave, which leaves me free to run this show on my own!Strap in. Let’s talk about some of the big stories in tech this week.It’s that time of the year — CES! The world’s largest technology convention is again taking place in Las Vegas, bringing thousands of nerds to see some really cool stuff that will probably never be released.I kid, but that’s generally how this goes. CES used to be cool for all the new stuff companies unveiled there, but then it got so crowded that it didn’t make sense to put out your product in the torrent of announcements. Now the biggest companies skip the event, so we’re left with a lot of strange news from unheard-of companies.AdvertisementI didn’t attend this year, but from what I gathered from the coverage (including this fun report by my colleague Brian X. Chen), CES is full of robotic pets, luggage that drives itself, and lots and lots and lots of voice assistants for everything you can imagine. If you’d love to see a cavernous room full of talking refrigerators, this is the show for you. Also, there was a huge power failure on Wednesday. Fun!AdvertisementWe should probably get used to such slim pickings at CES. As I’ve been saying for a while now, traditional “gadgets” seem to be dying. We saw more evidence of that trend this week when GoPro, the extreme-camera company, lowered its revenue forecast, shut down its effort to build a drone, laid off 20 percent of its staff and said it would be open to a sale.More and more gadgets, now, are really run off services or content in the cloud — Amazon’s Alexa, for instance, or the fitness videos created by Peloton, the fitness start-up I wrote about this week.On the other hand: When the self-driving suitcase is perfected, I’m buying one.When President Trump tweeted a threat of nuclear war against North Korea this month, it at the very least seemed to constitute a threat of violence that might violate Twitter’s terms of service. The company has lately been trying to crack down on abusive accounts. So some people on Twitter started to wonder, would the company possibly decide that Mr. Trump had crossed the line?Oh, no, not at all. On Monday, Twitter said the tweets of world leaders got special deference from the company; world leaders can now essentially say anything on Twitter. “Blocking a world leader from Twitter or removing their controversial tweets would hide important information people should be able to see and debate,” it said.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I don’t think anyone is surprised by this. And I saw some good arguments for allowing the president to stay on Twitter. As Will Oremus at Slate argued, barring Mr. Trump from the site is a “misguided fantasy” that wouldn’t really stop the underlying problem of his saying things that many people consider outrageous.Still, I do think there’s something to the argument that Twitter — by its very nature a platform meant for people to yell things at the news, usually without nuance — encourages the sort of reflexive communication that we probably don’t want in our world leaders.Sure, if Twitter barred him, he could always just go on TV and say what he had planned to tweet. But that would be slower and less automatic, and perhaps — I’m going out on a limb here — he might not blurt out threats of nuclear war.AdvertisementWe’re still seeing fallout from Meltdown and Spectre, the two big computer chip flaws that were announced last week. Intel said this week that its fixes for the two flaws would slow computers down by single-digit percentages; the exact performance hit depends on what you’re doing on your machine.This is a small slowdown, but it’s not insignificant. After all, people buy new computers for speed, so being hit with a slowdown after you’ve already purchased the thing is going to make lots of customers seethe.There’s a bigger story here: When technology is found to be insecure, many companies evade any great degree of responsibility for the problems. As Nathaniel Fick, chief executive of the security company Endgame, wrote in The Times, “Cybersecurity today is being treated like accounting was before the fallout from the Enron scandal.” There are few lasting repercussions for flaws, and after a time everything goes back to normal. Equifax, for example, has already partly recovered after its massive breach.Unless the government steps in with stricter penalties, this system seems headed for catastrophe. Everything is interconnected now; it’s only a matter of time until there’s a hack big enough to cause widespread social and economic disruption. We should probably do something about that, maybe?Finally, in a late-breaking update, Facebook said on Thursday that it would be making huge changes to make you feel less terrible about using the service. It’s an unusual goal for a tech company — Facebook plans to alter its News Feed to increase your interactions with friends and family and reduce how many posts you see from brands and publishers, all in an attempt to make the service more “meaningful” for users.The move could have wide repercussions for media outlets — which depend on Facebook for traffic — and potentially for Facebook’s own bottom line. But as with all Facebook product changes, it will probably be months before we know how the move plays out. One thing is for sure: Initially, you’re bound to hate it, because that’s just how it goes with anything new online.O.K., that’s it for now. Tune in next week for another Mike-free newsletter. Bye!Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. You can follow him on Twitter here: @fmanjoo.A version of this article appears in print on January 15, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: A Power Failure at CES; Facebook Goes ‘Meaningful.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 12, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:A woman who left France and became a prominent propagandist and recruiter for the Islamic State has asked her family, friends and country for a pardon. This is how she went from a Paris suburb to the Syrian battlefield.• Emilie König, 33, spent the past five years living in Syria, where she was a prominent propagandist and recruiter for the Islamic State. Now she wants to return home — to France.The quandary her case poses is an increasingly common problem for European countries: What should they do when citizens, who are also militants, want to return?Meanwhile, fighting rages in Idlib Province, the last major insurgent stronghold in Syria. The U.N. expressed alarm over assaults by Russian-backed Syrian forces, which it said had put tens of thousands of civilians at risk._____• President Trump  stirred outrage when he told lawmakers that he’d like to see more immigrants from Norway, and not from  “shithole countries,” including Haiti and those in Africa.AdvertisementMr. Trump is expected to stop short of reimposing strict sanctions on Iran today, but he is expected to give the U.S. Congress and European allies a deadline to improve the 2015 nuclear deal or see the U.S. withdraw.AdvertisementOn Twitter, Mr. Trump said that he had canceled his trip to London, where he was expected to open the new U.S. Embassy. He accused his predecessor of making a “bad deal” in moving the embassy.Meanwhile, the privacy movement that emerged after the 2013 leaks by Edward Snowden suffered a major setback when the House voted against restricting a warrantless surveillance program._____• The British government dismissed the idea of a second referendum on the country’s departure from the European Union.The idea has gradually been gaining ground. Even Nigel Farage, the populist politician who prominently campaigned for Brexit, has hinted he might favor holding another vote.While a second referendum is possible, odds are it will not happen._____• Mark Zuckerberg  spoke to us about sweeping changes being made to Facebook’s News Feed.“We want to make sure that our products are not just fun but are good for people,” said Mr. Zuckerberg, the company’s founder. “We need to refocus the system.”If you’re among the network’s more than two billion users, expect to see fewer viral videos and news articles in the coming weeks, and more posts that include interactions between you and the people you know.Advertisement_____• The Winter Olympics kick off next month in Pyeongchang, South Korea.That made us wonder: How is climate change affecting the Winter Games? We looked at other cities that have hosted the Games and found that by 2050, many of them may be too warm to host again. (Above, a venue for snowboarding and skiing events in Pyeongchang.)Our travel desk compiled a roundup of some of the big sports events this year, including, of course, the soccer World Cup in Russia.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Garbage  is piling up in Germany, Britain, Ireland and elsewhere since China banned imports of some kinds of recyclable waste.• CES 2018: A smart refrigerator and a TV that can be rolled up like a yoga mat are among the highlights, but the real star of this year’s electronics trade show is artificial intelligence.• Kering, the French conglomerate, is spinning off its shares in Puma as part of a long-held ambition to focus on the luxury market.• How do car companies settle on a new vehicle’s name? It’s an art mixed with science and public outreach.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.The newly appointed United States ambassador to the Netherlands, Peter Hoekstra, was questioned about remarks he made in 2015 stating that Dutch politicians and cars had been burned by Muslims.• “This is the Netherlands, you have to answer questions.” That was a Dutch journalist’s comment during a strained exchange with the American ambassador, Peter Hoekstra. (The Trump appointee refused to answer questions about his 2015 statement that Muslims had burned Dutch politicians.) [The New York Times]Advertisement• Ecuador granted citizenship to Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks co-founder who has been living in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London since 2012, hours after Britain said it had refused to grant him diplomatic immunity. [The New York Times]• All married couples should be allowed to live and work across the E.U., regardless of member countries’ laws on same-sex unions, a legal expert advised the bloc’s top court. [The New York Times]• In Russia, a historian has to undergo enforced psychiatric testing after his research on Soviet labor camps angered the authorities. [The New York Times]• Czech voters will go to the polls today and tomorrow in the first round of presidential elections to decide whether to renew the mandate of Milos Zeman. [The Guardian]• Luxembourg’s highest court overturned a guilty verdict against a whistle-blower who shed light on the country’s sweetheart tax deals for multinational companies. [Politico]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Celebrate the end of the week with Sam Sifton’s oven-roasted chicken shawarma.• Want to be happy? We asked some of New York’s most seasoned residents for advice.• Before booking a charter airline flight, check its safety record.• Serena Williams opened up in the new issue of Vogue about the complications she experienced after giving birth. She’s slated to be back in action in March.Advertisement• In soccer news, Lionel Messi scored twice in three minutes to help Barcelona, the defending champion, advance to the Copa del Rey quarterfinals.• Rome’s much-derided Christmas tree, known as Spelacchio, has been dismantled. It is going to be repurposed into a hut for baby nursing.• In memoriam: José Molina, a Spanish-born dancer who brought flamenco to U.S. audiences, died at 81.• Sometimes it seems as if we’re living under a constant barrage of heavy news. But it isn’t all bad out there. This week’s roundup of good news includes Winnie the Pooh, winter heroes and baby turtles.“Hello. I’m Johnny Cash.”With those words, Mr. Cash kicked off a concert at a state prison in California that revitalized his music career and fortified his outlaw persona. Recorded 50 years ago on Saturday, “At Folsom Prison” remains a landmark in American music.Entertaining inmates — while taunting their guards — was tame compared with the other exploits of the Man in Black.In 1965, Mr. Cash accidentally started a forest fire in Southern California that burned hundreds of acres and devastated a population of endangered condors. (Mr. Cash told a judge, “I don’t care about your damn yellow buzzards.”) Later in life, he was attacked by an ostrich and almost died.In a dispute with his label in the 1980s, Mr. Cash released a parody called “Chicken in Black.” He called the track “intentionally atrocious,” but it was the most successful thing he’d done in years. (There’s even a video.)AdvertisementMr. Cash, who died in 2003, was a Morse Code expert in the Air Force who eavesdropped on Soviet chatter. He was even an ordained minister and wrote a novel, “The Man in White,” about the Apostle Paul.As Mr. Cash told The Times in a 1969 interview, “Ain’t nothin’ too weird for me.”Charles McDermid contributed reporting._____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHRIS STANFORDJAN. 12, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump provoked global outrage on Thursday after complaining about Haitians and Africans and asking why the U.S. should accept immigrants from “shithole countries,” according to two people with direct knowledge of the conversation.It was the latest example of the president’s penchant for racially tinged remarks. The comments came during a meeting about giving legal status to immigrants brought to the U.S. as children. Mr. Trump reportedly said that more people should be admitted from places like Norway, where his profanity was denounced.The president denied making the remarks, saying in a post on Twitter today, “The language used by me at the DACA meeting was tough, but this was not the language used.”• Many news outlets took the rare step of using the expletive. Phil Corbett, the standards editor at The Times, said: “It seemed pretty clear to all of us that we should quote the language directly, not paraphrase it.”• President Trump announced on Twitter late Thursday that he had canceled a trip to London because of the cost and “off location” of the new U.S. Embassy. He had been expected to face protests in the British capital.AdvertisementThe news came after a day in which the administration said it would let states require able-bodied Medicaid recipients to work or participate in other “community engagement activities.”AdvertisementA justification for the change to one of the nation’s largest social insurance programs for low-income people is that it would make them healthier. There is not strong evidence for that contention.• And Mr. Trump has again decided  to stop short of reimposing strict sanctions on Iran. Two people briefed on his decision said he was expected to give Congress and European allies a deadline to improve the deal.• The House voted on Thursday to extend the National Security Agency’s warrantless surveillance program for six years with minimal changes.The legislation must still go through the Senate, but passing the House was the major hurdle.• The law was enacted in 2008 to legalize a version of a once-secret warrantless surveillance program created after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.• In an interview with The Times, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, discussed the sweeping changes the social media giant is making to prioritize content from people that its two billion users know.The shift, which will de-emphasize content from publishers and brands, is the most significant overhaul to the News Feed in years. Here’s what you can expect.• “We want to make sure that our products are not just fun, but are good for people,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “We need to refocus the system.”• A 33-year-old woman from France has spent the last five years in Syria, where she eventually became a prominent propagandist and recruiter for the militant group.AdvertisementNow, she wants to go home.• Our correspondent in Paris writes: “The quandary her case poses is an increasingly common one for France and other European countries: What should they do when citizens who are former Islamic State fighters or supporters want to return?”Mr. Trump’s disparaging words for Haiti and Africa have caused outrage worldwide. They have also raised a question about an American ideal: Who should be let in?• A bumpy day for Walmart: The largest private employer in the U.S. cited the new tax bill in announcing wage increases, bonuses and expanded benefits to its hourly workers. But it’s also closing 63 Sam’s Club stores.• Morgan Stanley investigated accusations of harassment by one of its executives, the former congressman Harold Ford Jr., and found no proof. Then it fired him anyway.• What’s $27 billion to Wall Street? Investment banks used to mint money by trading bonds, currencies and other complex securities. But that business is in decline, a trend that is reshaping the industry.• U.S. stocks were up on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Want to be happy? Think like an old person.• Before booking with a charter airline, check its safety record.• Recipe of the day: Celebrate Friday with Sam Sifton’s oven-roasted chicken shawarma.• Partisan writing you shouldn’t missAdvertisementWriters from across the political spectrum discuss Congress’s vote to extend the N.S.A.’s spying program.• The week in good newsIt isn’t all bad out there.• Quiz time!Did you keep up with this week’s news? Test yourself.• Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critics review “The Commuter,” starring Liam Neeson, and “Paddington 2,” starring the bear from deepest, darkest Peru.Our TV critic was unimpressed by “Philip K. Dick’s Electric Dreams,” Amazon’s sci-fi anthology, but we have some other streaming ideas.We recommend 11 new books, and round up the best theater, art and music offerings in the New York area.Finally, we visited “Murder Is Her Hobby,” an exhibition at the Smithsonian in Washington of 19 miniature crime scenes created as training tools for police investigators.• Best of late-night TVThe comedy hosts had a hard time, for once, making light about one of President Trump’s comments.• Quotation of the day“Villagers will always say they had no intention of killing the elephants, the poison was intended for wild pigs.”Advertisement— Suwarno, director of Animals Indonesia, a conservation group, referring to cases involving farmers fed up with elephants that maraud their plantations.“Hello. I’m Johnny Cash.”With those words, Mr. Cash kicked off a concert at a state prison in California that revitalized his music career and fortified his outlaw persona. Recorded 50 years ago on Saturday, “At Folsom Prison” remains a landmark in American music.Entertaining inmates — while taunting their guards — was tame compared with the other exploits of the Man in Black.In 1965, Mr. Cash accidentally started a forest fire in Southern California that burned hundreds of acres and devastated a population of endangered condors. (Mr. Cash told a judge, “I don’t care about your damn yellow buzzards.”) Later in life, he was attacked by an ostrich and almost died.In a dispute with his label in the 1980s, Mr. Cash released a parody called “Chicken in Black.” He called the track “intentionally atrocious,” but it was the most successful thing he’d done in years. (There’s also a video.)Mr. Cash, who died in 2003, was a Morse Code expert in the Air Force who eavesdropped on Soviet chatter. He was also an ordained minister and wrote a novel, “Man in White,” about the Apostle Paul.As Mr. Cash told The Times in a 1969 interview, “Ain’t nothin’ too weird for me.”Charles McDermid contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.AdvertisementWhat would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Sunday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Roger CohenRAMALLAH, West Bank — Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, finally lost it this month. After a year of bamboozling signals from President Trump, including a cordial White House meeting last May followed by a blowup in Bethlehem weeks later, Abbas dismissed Trump’s peace efforts as the “slap of the century.” He ruled out American mediation.He called the American ambassador to Israel an “offensive human being” and pronounced the Oslo Accords dead. His tirade was as much an expression of Palestinian impotence as resolve. All Abbas has left is words. Still, it was a striking requiem for the Israeli-Palestinian “ultimate deal” that Trump promised.So it goes with a president whose foreign policy watchword is “incoherence,” when it’s not outright indecency of the “shithole” variety. Trump has honed offensiveness to a fine art. A diplomatic deal is built with stubborn persistence, not conjured through insult. Only the genius in chief can know how it made sense, a year into Jared Kushner’s Middle Eastern diplomatic labors and before they had yielded a peace plan, to torpedo his efforts.That is what Trump’s recognition last month of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and subsequent tweeted boast that he’d taken Jerusalem “off the table,” achieved. It was a provocation. To address Jerusalem, city of passions, with such truculence was to invite disaster, as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis tried to impress on a president captive to his impulses.The Palestinians have seen the president in all his facets. “Trump was so agitated at the Bethlehem meeting, shouting, accusing Abbas of incitement, saying Abbas was not the nice man he’d believed — it was awful,” Muhammad Shtayyeh, a member of the Fatah Central Committee, told me. “But at their next meeting in September, things were fine. Then, all of a sudden, we get this unilateral Jerusalem measure that sabotages everything. So, for us, what sort of message is the president sending?”One year into the Trump presidency, a lot of people around the world are asking that question. A nation of erratic disruption and “America First” belligerence has supplanted the underwriter of the post-1945 global order. The multilateral institutions of that order — from the United Nations to NATO — are mistrusted by the president. A void has opened up. Neither chaos nor China has quite filled it yet. In Gramsci’s words, written between the 20th century’s two global conflagrations, “The old is dying, and the new cannot be born.”Trump’s universe is a place of dread, not deals. If there was no catastrophe in the first year, the possibility of one in the second was ratcheted up, from North Korea to Iran. In the National Security Strategy published in December, the subheading under “Diplomacy and Statecraft” is “Competitive Diplomacy” — not cooperation. Money is apparently no object to ensure “weapons systems that clearly overmatch” in “lethality.” Diplomacy, by contrast, requires “efficient use of limited resources.” The evisceration of the State Department and big increases in military budgets reflect Trump’s mind-set.His nuclear brinkmanship with North Korea seems to involve a belief that nuclear war might just be feasible as a means, short of a blood bath, to bloody Kim Jong-un’s nose. That — and I’m being charitable — is hard to imagine. Limited nuclear war is a near oxymoron. It is not inconceivable, however, especially if Trump begins to feel cornered by the Russia investigation and in need of a foreign policy surprise. New lower-yield nuclear weapons, whose threshold for use might be lower, are contemplated in the Pentagon’s draft Nuclear Posture Review. The surprise could also come with Iran. The president’s foolish undermining of the Iran nuclear deal is perverse. If North Korea could have been stopped short of a bomb, as Iran has been, even Trump’s White House would be happy.But Trump is deaf to reason. He talks of revived American greatness. Yet, as president, he has not set foot in California, where American technology and innovation create companies that capture the world’s imagination. All that interests him is that Californians tend to dislike him. Disrespect, whether domestic or foreign, is intolerable to him.A global power shift long preceded Trump; China’s share of global output rose to about 15 percent from less than 4 percent in the past two decades. The Obama presidency talked down American greatness. In Syria, Barack Obama’s abdication was complete. But through dereliction, President Trump has fast-forwarded this American retreat.Of course, mistrust of America’s rivals is not misplaced. Russia and China, ideological foes, are in an assertive and expansionist mood. Russia has won in Syria. It has not retreated in Ukraine. European nations, including Hungary, have proved susceptible to Vladimir Putin’s democratic authoritarianism. Russian cyberattacks on Western democracies have proved disruptive, especially in the United States.President Xi Jinping of China, in a speech late last year, offered his nation’s model as “a new option for other countries and nations who want to speed up their development while preserving their independence.” This amounted to a remarkable expression of self-confidence. It is of a piece with the “One Belt, One Road” initiative, an attempt to weave other countries’ fates into China’s growing ambitions.As the Cold War demonstrated, such challenges to American interests are best confronted through coherent strategy backed by a credible threat of force and a clear set of values. This, however, is not Trump’s thing. Value-free outbursts are. The president is “so boxed in on Russia that he’s deprived of any ability to conduct a policy, and that paralysis is dangerous,” Jonathan Eyal, a London-based strategic analyst, told me. On nuclear weapons and on Syria, the United States has no mechanism for dialogue with Russia at the highest level because Trump is frozen in genuflection to Putin, his own National Security Strategy notwithstanding.With China, too, policy has veered: trade bellicosity one moment, blandishments designed to enlist Beijing’s help in squeezing North Korea the next. Xi, deploying pomp and flattery during the president’s visit last year, knows how to get Trump where he wants him. America First makes China look like the more responsible global power. Tillerson labors to open diplomatic channels to Pyongyang; Trump tells his secretary of state he’s “wasting his time.” In the end the confidence of both China and Russia is buttressed by Trump’s wackiness and compromised hesitations.Last September, Trump met with Emmanuel Macron, the young president of France, who, unlike Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, has a relationship with him. Syria came up. Trump said he’d hit Syria with 50 missiles after the chemical-weapons infringement. “Didn’t I?” he asked his aides who, in cowering unison, confirmed he had. Iran came up. Macron, like other European leaders, is concerned that the nuclear deal Trump opposes be upheld. Trump was uninterested. He veered off on a bizarre tangent about the trade France does with Iran.It’s tough to do business with Trump — not least for those who serve him. This month offered the extraordinary spectacle of the United States ambassador to London, Woody Johnson, rebuffing Trump over the new American Embassy that the president had described as being in an “off location” and costing $1.2 billion. It didn’t “cost the U.S. taxpayer a cent,” Johnson retorted. Trump was really looking for a reason to cancel a British trip that would have provoked protests. It has come to this: an American president who’s unwelcome in London!The unthinkable is now commonplace. Perhaps that’s what Trump wanted above all: to shake up Western complacency over how the world could, and could not, be run. That’s not a bad thing. The anger he intuited among the losers from globalization was real. His words have been worse than his deeds. The global economy is purring. The terrorists of the Islamic State have taken a devastating blow. In a best-case scenario, his wild North Korean threats are just a bad-cop show.But something terrible, and perhaps irreparable, has happened. The idea of America has been sullied. It has fallen victim to Trump’s untruth, indecency, racism and contempt for the values without which American greatness is inconceivable. The president is at home with despots because he sees himself in them.Wolfgang Ischinger, the former German ambassador to Washington, told me: “I cannot explain to my 13-year-old daughter, who was born in the United States, that for her, President Trump should be the symbol of the values we stand for: human dignity, personal freedom and so on. A fundamental anchor has been lost.”The disarray Trump has engendered reflects the degree to which he has turned the meaning of the word “America” on its head. He has empowered bigots, thugs, bullies, racists, nationalists and nativists the world over.In Israel, I asked Hannah Pollin-Galay, a senior lecturer in Yiddish literature at Tel Aviv University, what she thought of Trump’s Jerusalem declaration. “It destroyed hope on both sides,” she said. “It gives right-wing nationalists the stage and sense they are right. Look! The rightist strategy works. You are rewarded for not listening to the Palestinians, for not sharing holy ground. That is disastrous, the most dangerous thing imaginable.”Gramsci thought the perilous interregnum between world orders was a time of “the most varied morbid symptoms.” Trump’s second year will show whether those he has unleashed, and nurses within himself, can still be contained short of what he calls “fire and fury.”You can follow me on Twitter (@NYTimesCohen) or join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
Social Q’s By                     
PHILIP GALANES

JAN. 18, 2018
I am 17. Since I was a baby, my mother has taken me to church with her on Sunday mornings. Recently, I’ve felt less religious and less interested in going than I used to. But when I bring this up with her, it always ends in a screaming match (especially on Sunday mornings). She believes I must go. We get along fairly well otherwise. Is there a better way to broach this subject, or should I simply endure the weekly ritual until I go to college?SARAIn one of the great understatements in (boxing) history, Floyd Mayweather Jr. once said, “Self-preservation is an important thing to me.” So it should be to all of us. You are probably financially dependent on your mother — and will be, to some extent, when you go to college. Nothing in your letter suggests a dire backdrop, but many young people are cut off by their parents for warring over hot topics such as religion or sexuality. Keep that (and your best interests) in mind.I applaud your mom for wanting a regular spiritual component in your life. But that needn’t be church (in my irrelevant opinion) for one disinclined and on the cusp of adulthood. Suggest a weekly commitment to serving those in need — at a soup kitchen or homeless shelter, maybe — in lieu of church. She may go for a switcheroo with a moral and compassionate flavor. (Or she may want you sitting in the pew next to her.) Bring it up quietly at dinner some Tuesday night and see how it goes.I am a passionate vegan for many reasons. But contrary to popular opinion, I do not speak about them. Still, when asked if I am vegan, I suffer an instant barrage of unsolicited opinions — from “You’re going to die of malnutrition” to “Stop being a snowflake; animals don’t have feelings.” This offends me. These conversations aren’t about me explaining my choices, but others imposing their (often incorrect) views on me. I am a peace-loving person, but I would like a saucy comeback. Can you oblige?AdvertisementABIGAILWith pleasure! Unsolicited opinions are the worst. They are usually about the red-hot needs of opinion spouters, not their recipients. And frequently they are infantilizing: “You are incompetent to walk this green earth until I tell you how.” This also goes for the new (to me, anyway), aggressive cousin of unsolicited opinions, when someone says, apropos of some personal choice, “Would you like to know what I think?” (No, not really.)The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The next time a meddler asks (then tells) about your diet or use of animal products, say, “Remember that time I asked you about my veganism? Funny, me neither.” That should do the trick. And if this tack is insufficiently “peace-loving,” try: “I’m good with my choice, but thanks for your concern.” Then pivot. Easy, right?AdvertisementI have two friends who have been married to each other for 30 years. It appears to be a good marriage, but they’ve turned to me, on four occasions, when it was in crisis. They take my advice, and they’re both in therapy. All good! But this last bout drained me to my bones. They are overdramatic and tell me far too much about their relationship. Otherwise, I don’t hear from them. They make plans with other friends and couldn’t even support me when I had a death in the family. I want to stop helping them. What can I say when the next drama unfolds — and it will?ANONYMOUSLet’s “Ac-Cent-Tchu-Ate the Positive,” first, as Johnny Mercer wisely counseled in his song lyrics. This couple clearly trust your wisdom in untangling thorny issues. Well done! I suspect they have pigeonholed you as a friendly crisis counselor. (Not so good.) But I also suspect that if they made a sincere overture of friendship, while not in the throes of marital hell, you would feel differently about this relationship — or perhaps not.In either event, sit down with them — now, during peacetime — and lay out your concerns: “It hurts me that I only hear from you when you’re having a knockdown drag-out. And when I do, your oversharing makes me uncomfortable. I’d like greater consideration.” You will have said your piece and asked for what we can reasonably expect from friends: mutual kindness and respect. Here’s hoping they can refocus the lens through which they see you.I drive a co-worker to work every day. It’s only slightly out of my way, so I don’t mind. But lately she’s been asking me to stop so she can get coffee, which makes us late (and annoys me). But it feels rude to say no. Help!ANONYMOUSSomeone needs a new “rude meter.” What’s next? A quick stop at Drybar for a blowout? If you, driver, want coffee, pick her up 10 minutes earlier. If not, tell Miss Daisy she’ll have to brew a cup at the office. There is nothing polite about being a doormat.For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or to Philip Galanes on Facebook.A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page ST6 of the New York edition with the headline: Ending a Church Ritual.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Social Q’s By                     
PHILIP GALANES

JAN. 11, 2018
My sister-in-law is friends with a woman I see socially about three times a year. She is a high-functioning alcoholic: She doesn’t drink during the day but becomes a slurry obnoxious mess at parties. I avoid her, and eventually her husband steps in. But recently, my teenage stepdaughter witnessed her “drunk show” and helped the woman’s daughter through tears of anger and shame. Now I feel complicit. My sister-in-law won’t intervene. So, I would like to tell this woman she needs help. Can you suggest a diplomatic approach?ANONYMOUSRemember that ancient party trick Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon? Its premise: Any two people, but particularly actors, are separated by fewer than six others who link them. It was utterly charming until its ubiquity made it insufferable. But if Six Degrees proved what a small, small world we inhabit, it never argued that folks at the far poles of separation should intervene in our most personal problems.I admire your helping impulse. But you are a near-stranger, not complicit. You see this woman about three times a year and avoid her when you do. You have no idea what goes on during the other 362 evenings (or any of the days). And denial is common among people with substance problems. Many report that when they do seek help, it is thanks to the intervention of loved ones — not in-laws of uninterested pals.You are not the right messenger, but you still have a big opportunity: You (and your spouse) should speak with your stepdaughter about what may have been an upsetting experience at the party. Praise her for her kindness to the woman’s daughter; sketch out the limits of helpfulness (for example, no getting into cars); and answer her questions. The most valuable dialogue to begin is with someone close to you.AdvertisementMy boyfriend’s niece is getting married in Colorado. His brother suggested a pre-wedding trip and invited us along. After the wedding, this brother wants his wife and me to leave, so that the brothers and their sister can have some time alone. (The brother’s wife has no problem with this.) The siblings live in different states, so I get that time together is precious. But being asked to leave early rubs me the wrong way. I would never ask this of anyone. Is the brother being rude, or am I too sensitive?The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I. W.Unless you have an abstract interest in rudeness, you’re asking the wrong questions. Who cares what the brother wants? Focus your attention on your boyfriend — whom you love, presumably. If he wants a few days alone with his siblings after the two of you enjoy a high-altitude mini-break, I would go along with him.AdvertisementStaying connected with siblings in middle age, especially when we’re spread out or after the organizing parent dies, is no mean feat. Strictly speaking, this “sibling time” can include significant others, but if your beau wants a solo experience, this time, what’s the harm? Don’t make this about you. They may have issues to discuss. So, ask your boyfriend what he wants and see if you can give it to him.I am 57. I’ve been going to the same hairstylist for years. She posts pictures of her clients’ cuts and colors on her Instagram. All types of people are on her feed. But I have never been photographed for it, which is hurtful to me. If you are taking one client’s picture, shouldn’t you take all of them? And my hair looks great! How can I say something?KARENWe increase the odds of getting what we want by asking for it. And when what we want is as paltry as what you want, why spend a lot of time agonizing about it? (You led with your age, as if you suspected that was the issue. But then you eased the concern by saying she puts “all types of people” on her feed, including 57-year-olds with great hair, one imagines.)The next time you’re in for a cut or color, tell your stylist: “My lustrous mane looks magnificent today, doesn’t it? Please take out your camera and put me on that Instagram feed.” She is a service provider, Karen. She will do precisely that.Two weeks ago, I fielded a question from a concerned father whose son, seemingly happy in his first semester at college, came home for Christmas to announce that he was dropping out. He wouldn’t explain why. I advised patience and respect for the young man’s privacy, as well as more productive avenues of conversation.Then came a tidal wave of letters from readers, many worried about possible sexual assault or the onset of mental illness. (The father’s letter suggested neither, but I appreciate the vigilance.) So, I followed up with Dad and can happily report back: To deflect from anticipated poor grades, the result of excessive good times, Sonny concocted a dropping-out story, which he recanted promptly when his grades came back better than expected. Sly fox!For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or to Philip Galanes on Facebook.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page ST8 of the New York edition with the headline: Intervention Decorum.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Social Q’s By                     
PHILIP GALANES

JAN. 4, 2018
I received a nice gift (that I have absolutely no use for) from a relative. It came with a gift receipt in the box. My husband told me this was just a courtesy from the store, not permission from the giver to exchange it. He said it would hurt their feelings if I did. I think that’s crazy! If I keep it, I’ll only use it once or twice, to show my relative that I did. Wouldn’t it be better to exchange it for something I’ll use often and enjoy?J. R.Call me bossy boots, but I have been known to cajole and whine in department stores until my companions try on the garments that I know are perfect for them — even if they loathe them. I stop short, however, of forcing them to buy these things. I feel the same way about presents. They are gestures of affection, not mandatory school uniforms.We make honest efforts to find gifts we hope our recipients will like. But we’re only human. So, if we fail, knock yourself out, J. R.! Exchange that gold lamé bathrobe for something you’ll actually wear. Givers who insist that we like the things they choose for us, or suffer hurt feelings if we don’t, have massive egos or are even bossier than I am. (And please remember to thank people for their gifts, even if you hate them. The gifts, that is.)When my mother died, my brother-in-law sent my siblings and me an email demanding that we each give his wife (our sister) $10,000 from our inheritance. They live in the same town our mother did, so they had her for holidays and visited her in the nursing home for years. I called my brother-in-law and yelled at him; he upset everyone. Still, we paid him. Later my sister told me that her husband was terribly hurt by my call. Now she and I communicate only by group text. And her husband says he’s “too hurt” to patch things up. What say you?AdvertisementANONYMOUSWell, here I am, thinking you can’t put a price on love, while your brother-in-law shrewdly calculated that it goes for $10,000 a pop. Obviously, this is a complex (but not unheard-of) family crisis. Your brother-in-law and sister probably felt overburdened and underappreciated in your mother’s final years, while you and your other siblings saw their resentment as greed at a time of great sorrow.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a perfect world, you would all apologize simultaneously: your sister and brother-in-law for their “stick ’em up” maneuver, and you and your siblings for leaving them holding the bag. But that’s easier said than done. Letting our gripes calcify is more common.AdvertisementSend a group text, if that’s the only way your sister will speak with you: “I think we’ve behaved unkindly and owe each other apologies. I’m sorry that I didn’t help more with Mom and that I was angry with Bob on the phone.” Don’t embroider your remorse with justification. Just open the door and hope your siblings walk through it. You can’t force them to.Newish friends have a year-old baby and limited access to babysitting. We’d like to spend time with them, and we’re happy to include the baby. But they live in Manhattan, and we’re in Brooklyn. It’s hard for them to travel with the baby. And it feels rude to suggest going to their place and forcing them to host us. How do we plan something that everyone can enjoy?RACHAELI applaud your sensitivity, but as my mother used to say, “Timid cooks have skinny kids.” Just email your pals and ask. (Doing it in writing gives them a chance to confer.) “Dave and I would love to hang out. We know you’ve got a lot on your plate, so what’s easier for you? You’re welcome to bring the baby to our place, or we could throw together a meal that we can bring over to yours.” It’s the opposite of rude. I bet they’ll appreciate your thoughtfulness.Here’s a conundrum I have worried about for most of my 73 years: What can one do at a dinner party when all the women stand up to clear the dishes, and all the men continue to sit? I find the men’s behavior appalling, but to say something might introduce an unpleasant note or spoil the party for the hosts and guests.TOBYThat’s a long time to worry, Toby! Here’s an apt (and lovely) quote attributed to Chekhov: “Don’t tell me the moon is shining; show me the glint of light on broken glass.” Show, don’t tell. Simply stand up with the women and help clear.What could be better than a live example of gender equality? (Though personally, I prefer my guests not clear the dishes. As host, I like to set the tempo. I also know where platters and plates should be stacked for easier cleanup.) Still, it’s a nice reminder that talk is cheap — especially emanating from a seated position.For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or to Philip Galanes on Facebook.A version of this article appears in print on January 7, 2018, on Page ST2 of the New York edition with the headline: Can I Swap This Useless Gift?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Steven RattnerHardly a day goes by without President Trump tweet-bragging about the relentless rise of the stock market to fresh record highs — Exhibit A in his mind about how he is, indeed, making America great again.But, while strong equity markets are certainly a Good Thing, let’s not forget that, like so many effects of Mr. Trump’s policies, those higher share prices are propelled upward in considerable measure by the new president’s pro-business policies and benefit the wealthy far more than the average American.The unsurprising reality is that the rich are far more likely to hold stocks, and when they do, they own them in much larger chunks than their less-well-off brethren.The percentage of Americans who hold any stocks at all has declined to just over half of all Americans, while only 28 percent of families with below-median incomes hold any shares (including in retirement accounts). Moreover, while middle-class Americans typically own just $15,000 in equities, the top 10 percent have amassed median holdings of $365,000.To be sure, rising stock markets help many Americans in other ways. Perhaps most importantly, they secure pension benefits for those fortunate enough to participate in corporate or municipal plans.However, the percentage of workers covered by these programs has been declining, from 62 percent in 1983 to 17 percent in 2016. Only about 22 percent of Americans below the median even have an individual retirement account.Mr. Trump also claims — in a tweet, of course — that rising equity prices are also creating “present and future Jobs, Jobs, Jobs.”While we can speculate about the future, for the moment, anyway, job growth has been slower under the new president than it was under President Obama. In 2017, the economy added a total of 2,055,000 jobs, the lowest number since 2010.Meanwhile, Mr. Trump omitted to mention any effect that the rising stock market has had on incomes — perhaps because there hasn’t been a discernible one.From when he took office through the end of November, average hourly wages rose by just 0.6 percent, after adjusting for inflation. Even before taking account of higher prices, earnings were up by only 2.3 percent last year post-inauguration, a fraction of the 17.3 percent gain in share prices during the same time period.Similarly, last year’s 4 percent increase in house prices — while satisfying — is only a fraction of the jump in stocks.While Mr. Trump would be hard-pressed to show much benefit for his base from soaring equities, I’m prepared to give him at least partial credit for higher stock prices.That’s because his administration is engaged in a giveaway to corporate America. Yes, we needed to reform our business tax code to compete with countries like Britain, which lowered its corporate tax rate to 19 percent in 2017 from 30 percent in 2007. But the estimated benefit of $600 billion will go straight to the bottom line of corporate America, and anticipation of this has clearly fueled share prices.Meanwhile, the Trump administration has declared open season on regulations that the business community says are impediments to growth (meaning profitability).So, for example, the National Labor Relations Board — fresh with two new Trump appointees — has begun reversing major Obama-era rules that favored workers and organized labor, while the Interior Department just rescinded an Obama rule limiting hydraulic fracking in oil and gas fields.I’m appalled that so much of the good work of the Obama administration is being unwound. Investors see it differently: Every regulation that is emasculated or eliminated produces more profit potential for the companies that were subject to the regulation.Nonetheless, even with that tail wind, the jump in our market only roughly parallels global market indexes and pales in comparison with last year’s results in Japan and emerging markets like China.Remarkably, in 2017, the world achieved its highest growth rate — 3 percent — since 2011, and economists believe the world is on track for another strong year in 2018.It’s hard to imagine that even Mr. Trump would claim credit for Europe’s tantalizing break out of its decade of malaise or for the renewed optimism that China, India and other major developing countries will continue their rapid growth.Yet, Mr. Trump’s braggadocio is so unabashed that one shouldn’t be surprised to see a tweet contending that China should thank him for its roaring economy.Steven Rattner, who served as counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, is a Wall Street executive and a contributing opinion writer. For latest updates and posts, please visit stevenrattner.com and follow me on Twitter (@SteveRattner) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
Breakingviews By                     
ROBERT CYRAN

JAN. 12, 2018
Mark Zuckerberg is discovering the cost of factory-farming Facebook’s users. The $550 billion social network’s success in harvesting advertising dollars through mass-appeal content has made it very profitable. The snag is that users are increasingly unhappy. The founder and chief executive’s return to focusing more on their welfare may limit short-run earnings but should improve sustainability.The Facebook farm has become increasingly unwholesome. The company is at the center of a storm over the promotion of false news stories, some potentially placed with the intention of interfering with the 2016 presidential election. Time spent per user on the core site has been falling, albeit from a high base, according to Pivotal Research. Mr. Zuckerberg’s stated goals for 2018 are fixing the site, cleaning up abuse, limiting interference by nation states and “making sure time spent on Facebook is time well spent.”Now Facebook is changing its algorithms, according to a post on Thursday, to put a priority on News Feed items that users’ friends share and interact with and reduce the amount of third-party non-advertising content. Multiple studies link time spent on social networks with unhappiness, and watching mass-produced videos and reading clickbait articles on a screen surely don’t help.Facebook hopes higher-quality feeds will work better. “We feel a responsibility to make sure our services aren’t just fun to use, but also good for people’s well-being,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote.This and possible changes like favoring reputable news sources over more sensational ones — which Facebook is considering, according to The Wall Street Journal — will probably hurt the company financially over the short run. Time spent on the site by users will probably fall, and that means advertising will grow more slowly. That helps explain the 4.5 percent decline in the company’s shares on Friday. It’s worth it over the long term, however, if it keeps users sufficiently content to remain on the Facebook farm.Robert Cyran is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
A Good Appetite By                     
 MELISSA CLARK
 
JAN. 5, 2018
There are “fishy” fish, and then there are non-fishy fish. And with its mild, milky flesh, cod is one of the least fishy of them all.Usually, I’m drawn to the more robust varieties — the mackerels, sardines, anchovies and swordfish in the market, which have enough personality to take whatever seasoning I feel like throwing at them. This gives me the kind of fridge-clearing, spice-sprinkling latitude I need to get really creative.But milder fish can also be appealing, especially cod, which has a fresh, saline taste that can also be sweet. To fully appreciate its subtle flavor, it’s best to keep things simple when preparing it.The good thing about this kind of simplicity is that it can also mean speed. The fewer things you have to chop, peel, squeeze, seed, grind or otherwise deal with when cooking, the faster your dinner will come together. Minimalism is your friend on any given weeknight.AdvertisementIn this recipe, the only ingredients to prepare are shallots, garlic and some fresh herbs: It’s labor you can do while your skillet heats up. Once it’s hot, you’ll quickly braise the cod fillets and shallots in butter, white wine and a handful of herb sprigs.Then, while the fish firms up in the pan, you’ll have ample time to mix the sauce: a swirl of garlic, yogurt and whatever those herbs were that you just chopped. Or you can make the sauce ahead. It will keep for a week in the fridge, and it is so good on roasted or raw vegetables that you might even consider a double batch.AdvertisementThat’s it, and the payoff is big: A dinner of meltingly tender, butter-infused cod enhanced but not overwhelmed by the tart, herb-speckled yogurt sauce. Add a spinach salad and crusty bread, or maybe some mashed potatoes if you’re in full-on comfort food mode, and you’ve got a cozy dinner that’s after-work friendly.Like most very simple dishes, this one depends heavily on the quality of the ingredients. So when it comes to the fish, it’s better to go for what looks gorgeous in the market rather than sticking to the recipe. If the cod that’s available seems mushy, choose something perkier and more pristine. Another mild fish — hake, flounder or sea bass — will keep the gentle spirit of the recipe intact.Recipe: Quick-Braised Cod With Herbed YogurtFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: A Dish for Lovers of Non-Fishy Fish.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa PryorMaybe one day, once I have decades of experience as a doctor and further training in my area of specialization, I will be able to speak about health matters with the tone of authority of the average naturopath.That was the thought that crossed my mind recently while I waded through the online world of alternative-health practitioners, wellness bloggers, whole-food chefs and Gwyneth Paltrow.I did not seek it out at first; it came to me through a social-media algorithm. Facebook offered up a video advertisement from a “female hormonal health specialist” with her own “practice.” Not an endocrinologist but a naturopath. She lectured with confidence on thyroid testing, though much of what she said was wrong. And down the internet rabbit hole I went.One traditional view of the medical profession is that doctors are commanding and authoritarian, even arrogant. Though some individuals fit that description, in fact, the profession is built on doubt.Most doctors, especially the good ones, are acutely aware of the limits of their knowledge. I have learned from those much more experienced and qualified than me that humility is something to be cultivated over time, not lost.Our field is built around trying to prove ourselves wrong. In hospitals we hold morbidity and mortality meetings trying to show where we have failed, what we need to change, how we can do better. Our hospital work is audited to identify where we fell short of our ideals. Through scientific research we try to disprove the effectiveness of treatments. Our failings are exposed from the inside.The nature of evidence-based health care is that practices change as new evidence emerges.That is also the case for other health professionals whose practice is based on science, like qualified dietitians, physiotherapists, occupational therapists and psychologists. Guidelines are revised, advice is reversed — on blood pressure, diet, hormone replacement, opioid prescribing. This can be immensely frustrating for patients, even though it is what we must do to provide the best possible treatment.In the face of such doubt, it is not surprising that some individuals, even those who are intelligent and well educated, are swept away by the breezy confidence of health gurus, who are full of passionate intensity while the qualified lack all conviction, to borrow from Yeats.It is a cognitive bias known in psychology as the Dunning-Kruger Effect. In short, the less you know, the less able you are to recognize how little you know, so the less likely you are to recognize your errors and shortcomings. For the highly skilled, like trained scientists, the opposite is true: The more you know, the more likely you are to see how little you know. This is truly a cognitive bias for our time.This may explain how an Australian celebrity chef named Pete Evans cannot only promote the health benefits of a Paleo diet but also feel knowledgeable enough to make pronouncements on fluoride, sunscreen and vaccinations. He responded to criticisms in a television interview by saying: “What do you need a qualification for? To talk common sense?” He added, “Why do you have to study something that is outdated, that is industry backed, that is biased, that is not getting the results?”Engaging is difficult when the alternative-health proponents are on such a different astral plane that it is a challenge even to find common language for a conversation, especially when they promote spurious concepts such as “pyrrole disease,” which they can speak about in great, false detail, drawing the well-informed physician, dietitian or scientist into a vortex of personal anecdote and ancient wisdom, with quips about big pharma thrown in for good measure.It is kind of like an aerodynamics engineer trying to argue about alien spacecraft with the founder of a U.F.O. museum. How can an aerodynamics engineer speak with authority on the matter when he or she has not even bothered to research the events at Roswell and is not even aware that there are alien dissection videos freely available on the internet?Countering the online health gurus is especially difficult when they offer the irresistible cocktail of medical language muddled with a much more pleasing aesthetic than medicine, far from the clinical world of linoleum and antiseptic, a better place where patients’ conditions are diagnosed with metaphors (“adrenal fatigue”) and treated with poetry (holy basil, bone broth, Himalayan sea salt).Just like that naturopath on Facebook describing herself as a “specialist” with a “practice,” alternative-health gurus harness the language of medicine to seem authoritative. They order investigations, adopt protocols. And of course what they say is always half right, which is how pseudoscience works.But it is not the vocabulary of science that is important — it is the methodology. It would be much better if they left the language and took the rigorous approach to evidence instead, which might mean, for example, Goop choosing not to sell an $84 water bottle with amethyst quartz to “infuse water with positive energy.”In the face of this circus, we doctors must hold tight to evidence. We must hold tight to our doubt, our knowledge of our fallibility as individuals and as a profession, knowing that humility is a strength, not a weakness.But we must also as a profession engage in the public conversations about health, including on social media, along with our colleagues in allied health fields. If we do not, the discussion will be dominated by the passionately uninformed, who build trust only to sell false cures. And we must listen to patients, as we are taught to do, showing care and understanding. We must take on the difficult challenge of inspiring and motivating with the truth.Lisa Pryor, a medical doctor, is the author, most recently, of “A Small Book About Drugs.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy LIAM STACKJAN. 3, 2018
The call came in shortly before 3 a.m. on Christmas Day: A frightened 17-year-old girl, hiding in the backyard of a suburban California home, told the operator that she had been trafficked into prostitution by a man waiting for her in a nearby car.Police officers arrived and soon found the man sitting in a vehicle with a second girl, also 17, who they determined had also been trafficked, the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Department said.The man, Elan Seagraves, was a soccer coach for the local school district, and he also worked as a driver for the ride-sharing apps Uber and Lyft. He was arrested and charged with two felonies related to the trafficking and pimping of minors, said Shelly Orio, a spokeswoman for the Sacramento County District Attorney’s Office.“I’m a Soccer Coach, Bartender, and a Dad,” Mr. Seagraves wrote on Facebook, where his profile picture on Wednesday showed a group of teenage girls in soccer uniforms. He identified himself on Facebook as a coach at John F. Kennedy High School in Sacramento as well as a coach and trainer at NorCal Elite Soccer Trainers, where employees did not return a phone call seeking comment.AdvertisementAlex Barrios, a spokesman for the Sacramento City Unified School District, said Mr. Seagraves had been an intermittent employee of the district and was fired on Thursday.He had worked since the fall as the coach of the varsity boys’ soccer team, comprising mainly juniors and seniors, at Kennedy High School and was not a classroom teacher, Mr. Barrios said. Mr. Seagraves had also coached the boys’ team from March to May 2016 and from January to March 2017.“We have let him go,” Mr. Barrios said. “After this announcement, we made the decision that he was not going to be able to fulfill his duties as a soccer coach.”Mr. Seagraves had previously worked for the district as a coach for the girls’ junior varsity team, comprising mainly freshmen and sophomores, at the district’s West Campus High School between September and October 2013 and again from February to May 2014, Mr. Barrios said. He did not know if either of the teenage victims in the case was a student in the school district.The school district has high levels of poverty and is in an area where trafficking has become a more high-profile issue in recent years, Mr. Barrios said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We have invested so much into preventing instances of human trafficking,” he said. “This is a very sensitive issue in Sacramento and for our district. We don’t even know if these are our students, but as a partner in the region we have tried to do a lot.”AdvertisementThe district was the only in the country to receive a $400,000 three-year grant from the Office of Juvenile Justice in 2016 to mentor child victims of sex trafficking and prostitution, Mr. Barrios said.It hired 10 college-age mentors in 2017 to work with young people and has also trained over 500 district staff in issues related to trafficking and child sex exploitation.A case manager hired in 2012 has worked with more than 100 young people since 2016, he said.Mr. Barrios said the district had no information about the victims. “We just hope they’re O.K.,” he said.Lyft and Uber both said Tuesday that Mr. Seagraves’s accounts had been terminated, a move that effectively bars him from driving for them. Andrew Hasbun, a spokesman for Uber, said Mr. Seagraves had passed a background check in accordance with California law and had been driving for the company for two years.“These allegations are incredibly disturbing,” said Scott Coriell, a spokesman for Lyft. “Our concern is with the victims, and we stand ready to assist law enforcement in any way that we can.”Mr. Seagraves is being held at the Sacramento County Main Jail and his bail has been set at $2 million, the police said. The district attorney’s office said his next hearing is on Thursday. It was not known if Mr. Seagraves had a lawyer.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JEFFREY MOYO and NORIMITSU ONISHIJAN. 4, 2018
HARARE, Zimbabwe — An American woman who was arrested in Zimbabwe in November over a tweet mocking Robert Mugabe, weeks before he was forced out as president, was set free on Thursday after state prosecutors failed to prepare their case.The woman, Martha O’Donovan, 25, had been working in Harare, the capital, for the Magamba Network, a website focusing on youth activism and culture. She was charged with subverting the government and undermining the authority of the president, and faced up to 20 years in prison.Ms. O’Donovan denied that she was responsible for the tweet, which read, “We are being led by a selfish & sick man” and was posted on an anonymous account, @matigary, that remained active after she was arrested.The High Court ordered Ms. O’Donovan’s release on Thursday, after prosecutors said they were not prepared to provide a trial date.Advertisement“She now has her passport back, and she can travel any time — even if she may want to go to the U.S.,” said Ms. O’Donovan’s lawyer, Obey Shava, a member of the Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights.AdvertisementMr. Mugabe, who served as Zimbabwe’s leader for 37 years, was forced to step down in late November after the military seized power and put him under house arrest.His successor, President Emmerson Mnangagwa, has emphasized his desire to repair relations with Western governments, whose support will be crucial in obtaining assistance from international creditors. Local and international rights groups had pressed for Ms. O’Donovan’s release.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The government, could revive its effort to put Ms. O’Donovan on trial by presenting new evidence, but Linda Gatsikwa, a prosecutor, gave no indication of what the state would do.Ms. O’Donovan, of Martinsville, N.J., and a 2014 graduate of the Gallatin School of Individualized Study at New York University, smiled and hugged friends after the court appearance but made no comment.Her arrest, which came less than two weeks before Mr. Mugabe’s resignation, had raised fears that the Zimbabwean government was stepping up efforts to control social media before national elections scheduled for mid-2018.The Zimbabwean government, which had established a cybersecurity ministry a month before her arrest, began cracking down on social media in 2016 after activists using WhatsApp and Facebook organized street protests against Mr. Mugabe’s government.In November, prosecutors said that Ms. O’Donovan had “systematically sought to incite political unrest through the expansion, development and use of a sophisticated network of social media platforms as well as running some Twitter accounts.”Prosecutors said that she had access to the anonymous account that had posted the offensive tweet, which included a photograph of Mr. Mugabe, 93, with an illustration of a catheter, but they presented little evidence to support their accusation that she was responsible.Jeffrey Moyo reported from Harare, and Norimitsu Onishi from Johannesburg.A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: New Jersey Woman Arrested in Zimbabwe Is Released.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SHEERA FRENKELJAN. 2, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — As protests in Iran stretched into their sixth day on Tuesday, the Iranian authorities continued to restrict access to social media tools that have become key sources of information to antigovernment demonstrators.Telegram, a messaging app that is widely used in Iran, has been blocked since Dec. 31, while internet access has been sporadically cut off to several cities where protests have taken place, according to cybersecurity researchers monitoring internet activity in the country. Access to other social media platforms like Instagram has also been intermittent.Social media and messaging apps have become crucial to antigovernment demonstrators around the world, as a means of both organizing and delivering messages to other citizens. Not surprisingly, restricting access to such technology has become as important to government crackdowns as the physical presence of the police.Many social media tools — as well as a number of products that encrypt internet conversations — have long been unavailable in Iran. Twitter and Facebook have been banned since 2009, although many Iranians still find ways to use them. Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, even opened a Facebook account. But messaging apps like Telegram, which claims some level of encryption, report wide usage in the country.AdvertisementWhen Iranians took to the streets in 2009 in protests known as the Green Revolution, roughly one million Iranians had smartphones. Today, that number is 48 million — more than half of the country’s population.Advertisement“Having not just a smartphone, but the best and newest smartphone, is incredibly important to them,” said Holly Dagres, a Middle East analyst and curator of The Iranist newsletter. “They might not have money for food, but they will find money for a phone.”No app is more popular among Iranians than Telegram, Ms. Dagres said. There are 40 million to 46 million Telegram accounts in Iran.“The Iranian government is active on Telegram, as is the president, and members of Parliament,” she said. “Iranians use it to sell clothes or find doctors, she added. “In the last week it has become a key source of information about the protests.”In a Dec. 31 blog post, Pavel Durov, chief executive of Telegram, which is based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, wrote that the company had previously complied with requests by the Iranian government to shut down access to “channels” that called for violence during the protests. But, he added, the company “refused to shut down channels of peaceful Iranian protesters.”It was not clear if the block on Telegram would be permanent or temporary, Mr. Durov wrote. In a statement, Iran’s interior minister said that social networks were “causing violence and fear.”In the past, some Iranians have found ways to get around government restrictions by using tools that evaded Iran’s censorship technology. But economic sanctions imposed on the country have made access to some of those tools more difficult, said Collin Anderson, a cybersecurity researcher who planned to publish a report this week about Iran’s capabilities.Take, for example, the Google App Engine, a service intended to be used as a platform for developing and hosting web applications. In countries where they are otherwise banned, messaging apps that encrypt conversations often use the Google App Engine to conceal their activity within Google’s traffic.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But Google believes that it is not allowed to offer its Google App Engine in Iran because of the sanctions. That makes it tough to offer Iranians apps like Signal, which is commonly used in other countries to protect internet communications from surveillance.Advertisement“Google has chosen to adhere to the strictest letter of the law regarding sanctions in Iran, and by doing so they are blocking Iranians from this service,” Mr. Anderson said. Google could be worried that technology would be used by nuclear scientists in a potential violation of sanctions. But “the reality is that the ban affects everyday Iranians’ ability to use a tool that could keep them safe,” he said.Mr. Anderson argued that Google could white list, or unblock, certain applications like Signal. In doing so, Google could allow the app to become widely available in Iran in a matter of hours.Google declined to comment on its policies regarding the use of its technology in Iran.Sanctions have also forced many Iranians to use smartphones and applications that have been jailbroken, a term used when a manufacturer’s restrictions are removed to allow a user to install unauthorized software. But jailbroken phones and apps cannot be updated, leaving their users open to hackers and government monitors that take advantage of bugs in outdated software.“Iranians are tech-savvy but by using jailbroken phones they leave themselves really vulnerable,” Ms. Dagres said.The communication crackdown prompted an online outcry that included President Trump, who posted on Twitter over the weekend that Iran had “closed down the internet so that peaceful demonstrators cannot communicate. Not good!”
            Iran, the Number One State of Sponsored Terror with numerous violations of Human Rights occurring on an hourly basis, has now closed down the Internet so that peaceful demonstrators cannot communicate. Not good!        Ms. Dagres argued that tweets from officials in other countries do little, but allowing access to more communications tools would help protect protesters. As it is, she said, Iranians have proved to be resourceful in finding ways to communicate.“Where there is a will, there is a way,” Ms. Dagres said. “Iranians have been living under sanctions for years, and they have always found a way to get online.”Follow Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @sheeraf.A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2018, on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Iran Squeezes Protesters With Social Media Curbs.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NIRAJ CHOKSHIJAN. 23, 2018
A small Maine town fired its manager Tuesday, days after his views promoting white identity and criticizing Islam attracted unwanted national attention.The four selectmen of Jackman, Me., near the Canadian border, met on Tuesday morning and unanimously voted to end their relationship with the official, Thomas Kawczynski. He had been in the position since June.“He pulled the wool right over our eyes and we had no clue what he was about,” said Raymond Levesque, who attended the meeting and owns a laundromat, ice cream parlor and general store in town.Under the agreement, Mr. Kawczynski, whose contract promised a payout if he was terminated without cause, received a $30,000 settlement on the condition that he not take legal action against the town, said Warren Shay, a lawyer for Jackman.AdvertisementMr. Shay said that, not including the media, about 60 people attended the Tuesday meeting, weathering a mix of heavy freezing rain and snow. Fewer than 1,000 people live in Jackman, according to the 2010 census. The town is overwhelmingly white, according to that census, which listed 15 people of mixed race, nine American Indians or other indigenous people, five Asians and one black person.Mr. Kawczynski’s views drew widespread condemnation late last week when The Bangor Daily News and The Portland Press Herald quoted him and statements he made online at the website of New Albion, a group he founded whose stated aim is “defending the people and culture of New England.”Archived versions of the website show that Mr. Kawczynski had argued that voluntary segregation would improve happiness for all; in one now-removed post, he wrote of what he perceived as “resentment against whites” and the need for a movement around white identity.“You’re the ambassador for the race,” he wrote. “Every person you meet can walk away from seeing you thinking white nationalism is a good thing or a bad thing.”Mr. Kawczynski had also called Islam “the scourge of Western civilization,” according to The Daily News, though that statement appeared to have been taken down.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview with The New York Times on Tuesday, Mr. Kawczynski pushed back against the news reports, arguing that he had been taken out of context and is not a supremacist, a separatist or a nationalist.Advertisement“This is not a movement based on racism,” he said.Instead, he said he was simply trying to bring a conversation into the open.“There are a great many people who have thoughts that are not considered permissible,” he said, “and if the media and the lynch mob determine to force them into darkness, then don’t be surprised when the darkness comes back in the form in which it was required to develop.”The reports about Mr. Kawczynski’s beliefs drew swift condemnation.In a statement, the Maine Town, City and County Management Association rejected and condemned Mr. Kawczynski’s views, describing them as “fundamentally incompatible” with his role.In a since-removed Facebook post, the Jackman-Moose River Region Chamber of Commerce noted that interviewees are not asked their views on politics, race or nationality and described his beliefs as “shocking and offensive.”In Maine, a town manager has several responsibilities, from handling budgets to promoting local tourism. Jackman, often described as a gateway to Canada, relies heavily on visitors for revenue.“It’s a major route from Quebec down to and through Maine, and they pride themselves on being a welcoming community to everybody who wants to come,” Mr. Shay said.Mr. Kawczynski’s termination was effective immediately, Mr. Shay said. “When we left, he turned in his keys and card and was on his way.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JOE COSCARELLIJAN. 19, 2018
Tom Petty, the chart-topping singer and songwriter, died in October from an accidental drug overdose as a result of mixing medications that included opioids, the medical examiner-coroner for the county of Los Angeles announced on Friday, ending the mystery surrounding his sudden death last year.The coroner, Jonathan Lucas, said that Mr. Petty’s system showed traces of the drugs fentanyl, oxycodone, temazepam, alprazolam, citalopram, acetyl fentanyl and despropionyl fentanyl.Barely a week after Mr. Petty, 66, had concluded a tour with his band, the Heartbreakers, with three shows at the Hollywood Bowl, representatives said the singer had suffered cardiac arrest at his home in Malibu, Calif. on Oct. 2. But Mr. Petty’s official death certificate, released about a week later, listed his cause of death as “deferred” pending an autopsy.In a statement posted to Mr. Petty’s Facebook page on Friday, his wife, Dana, and daughter, Adria, wrote that Mr. Petty suffered from “many serious ailments including emphysema, knee problems and most significantly a fractured hip,” but that he continued to tour, worsening his conditions. “On the day he died he was informed his hip had graduated to a full on break and it is our feeling that the pain was simply unbearable and was the cause for his over use of medication,” the statement said.AdvertisementThey said: “We knew before the report was shared with us that he was prescribed various pain medications for a multitude of issues including Fentanyl patches and we feel confident that this was, as the coroner found, an unfortunate accident.”Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“As a family we recognize this report may spark a further discussion on the opioid crisis and we feel that it is a healthy and necessary discussion and we hope in some way this report can save lives,” Mr. Petty’s family said. “Many people who overdose begin with a legitimate injury or simply do not understand the potency and deadly nature of these medications.”AdvertisementIn 2016, the pop singer Prince was found to have died from an accidental overdose of self-administered fentanyl, a synthetic opiate estimated to be more than 50 times more powerful than heroin. In 2015, federal officials said that incidents and overdoses with fentanyl were “occurring at an alarming rate throughout the United States.” Drug deaths involving fentanyl more than doubled from 2015 to 2016, according to the governmental account of nationwide drug deaths last year.Prince, his friends and associates said after his death, also suffered from chronic hip pain that was exacerbated by a breakneck touring schedule, and he sought to hide what became a serious opiate addiction.Lil Peep, the 21-year-old emo rapper who died of an accidental overdose in November, was found to have fentanyl, among other prescription drugs, in his system as well.Mr. Petty, who formed the Heartbreakers in the mid-1970s, was a rock radio stalwart with hits like “I Won’t Back Down,” “Free Fallin’” and “American Girl.” He sold millions of albums and headlined the Super Bowl in 2008.“On a positive note we now know for certain he went painlessly and beautifully exhausted after doing what he loved the most, for one last time, performing live with his unmatchable rock band for his loyal fans on the biggest tour of his 40 plus year career,” Mr. Petty’s family said in their statement. “He was extremely proud of that achievement in the days before he passed.”An earlier version of this article misstated the number of concerts Tom Petty performed at the Hollywood Bowl in his final tour. It was three, not two.A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Singer Died Of Overdose, Autopsy Finds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By STEVEN LEE MYERSJAN. 19, 2018
BEIJING — On Wednesday, he posted an appeal to change China’s Constitution, suggesting, among other things, that there might be a more democratic way to elect the country’s leader. By Friday morning, he was in police custody.Yu Wensheng, one of China’s most prominent lawyers and political activists, was detained as he left his apartment building in Beijing to walk his 13-year-old son to school, according to his wife, Xu Yan, and two associates.Mr. Yu, who has defied previous arrests and warnings for his outspoken appeals for political change, had already appeared to be on a new collision course with the authorities. This week, he learned that his license to practice law had been suspended and that he would not receive a passport to travel abroad because he was a security risk — all of which he daringly disclosed on social media.Mr. Yu’s latest appeal came on the eve of meetings this week by Communist Party leaders in Beijing where changes to the Constitution were on the agenda. The changes, discussed behind closed doors in a meeting that ended Friday, could further consolidate the power of President Xi Jinping, who after the party’s major congress in October has as much political authority as any Chinese leader since Mao Zedong.AdvertisementIn his “open letter,” Mr. Yu said the title of president — one of many that Mr. Xi holds — had “no electoral significance” in China, and he called for party members to vote among many candidates rather than merely affirming an appointment of one.AdvertisementMr. Yu’s detention showed “that under Xi Jinping there is no room for questioning the supremacy of the party,” said Michael Caster, an acquaintance of Mr. Yu’s who is a rights activist with the group Safeguard Defenders.Tellingly, Mr. Yu posted his latest appeal in Chinese on Twitter and Facebook, both of which are banned inside China’s internet filter, the Great Firewall. His accounts in China were long ago blocked, as are many other accounts critical of the government.
            关于修宪的公民建议余文生致中共十九大二中全会的公开信 pic.twitter.com/66Df4tYPlP His wife, Ms. Xu, said he had anticipated a harsh reaction to posting a public letter the way he did, but she emphasized that the Constitution being discussed gives citizens the right to express themselves. “So this was not illegal,” she said in a telephone interview.By Friday evening, she was unable to determine his location, despite calling the local police. Neither the police nor the security services announced Mr. Yu’s arrest.Patrick Poon, a researcher for Amnesty International in Hong Kong, said he feared that Mr. Yu could be subjected to harsh treatment in custody, as he was when he was arrested in 2014 and held for 99 days.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In prison, Mr. Yu endured 17-hour interrogations and physical abuse that left him with a hernia. Held under a special status known as “residential surveillance at a designated location,” he was not allowed to see a lawyer, nor was he formally charged.Before his arrest Mr. Yu spent most of his career as an unassuming commercial lawyer. H e took the bold step of staging a public protest after prison officials refused to let him see a client who had been charged with expressing support for the pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong.He has since supported efforts to help other lawyers swept up in a wave of arrests in July 2015 for defending critics of the government.Follow Steven Lee Myers on Twitter: @stevenleemyers.A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: A Chinese Lawyer Is Detained Over a Pro-Democracy Post.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byCity KitchenBy David TanisWe think of summer as prime time for produce, but winter has bright seasonal salads, too. A cold-weather salad bowl may hold a lively mixture of sturdy-leafed, multicolored greens in the chicory family, instead of lettuce, along with a riot of citrus fruits.It is bit odd to term them “greens,” since many chicories’ leaves are a deep red, ranging from burgundy to crimson. This is especially true of the slightly-but-pleasantly-bitter Italian varieties of red chicory known as radicchio.The round-headed red radicchio di Chioggia, which looks something like a small red cabbage decorated with distinct white veins, is the most common found in supermarkets in the U.S. Some like to chop it or even shred it like slaw, but I usually prefer to tear the leaves in to fairly large pieces for a salad.Other radicchio varieties, like the ruddy, elongated Treviso, which I cut into 1-inch wide ribbons, and the scarlet curly-fingered Tardivo (I lop off the fingers and leave them whole) are likely to be available at farmers’ markets in the coming months. Some produce markets receive weekly deliveries of these characteristically Italian salad greens.As a counterpoint to radicchio’s mildly bitter edge, it is common to pair it with an assertive savory vinaigrette, which might contain garlic, mustard or anchovy. This is a lovely route to take, nearly begging for chopped hard-cooked egg and canned tuna.But for a spectacular pairing of flavors, I suggest a sweet connection between radicchio and citrus.Citrus is at its peak now, so destiny prevails. My favorite combination for this salad is blood oranges, navel oranges, ruby grapefruit and kumquats, but you can pick and choose. A small serrated paring knife will help to remove the peel and pith of the fruits easily. Then simply slice them and arrange them among the red leaves in all their colorful glory.All that remains is to whisk up a little dressing with some chopped shallot and grapefruit juice. Use olive oil or walnut oil, and add some toasted walnuts. The sweet-sour-bitter-nutty combination is extremely seductive.Chicories come in other shapes and colors. Green escarole is a member of the family (as is frisée, curly endive).The Belgian endive is a pale ivory, and its leaves are tightly packed into pointed, torpedolike heads. Endives (there are also red-hued and frilly fringed yellow versions) are great for salads. Some find them a bit less bitter than radicchio. I don’t find raw endive bitter at all; the leaves to me are crisp, juicy and refreshing.Cooking turns eating them into an altogether different experience, with a complex flavor that reminds me of artichokes. In Belgium and France, roasted or gratinéed endive is a common side dish.Choose medium to small endives, split them lengthwise top to bottom, and they are ready to cook. First they are browned in butter, then slathered with crème fraîche and broiled until nearly, but not quite, burnt.This is a simple riff on an old French “comfort food” recipe for endive à la crème, a homey gratin with cream and bits of ham. Without the ham baked in, it makes an excellent first course, perhaps draped with a bit of prosciutto; or it may reside happily alongside a piece of roasted chicken or fish. The taste of broiled endive is revelatory if you’ve never tried it: The endive becomes both creamy and caramelized, and the combined layers of flavor are exquisite.Recipes: Caramelized Endives With Crème Fraîche | Winter Citrus and Red Chicories SaladFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.cookingcookingAdvertisementBy AURELIEN BREEDENJAN. 18, 2018
PARIS — The journalist who started France’s equivalent of the #MeToo social media campaign against sexual harassment is being sued for defamation by the man she had accused of making salacious and disrespectful comments about her.Sandra Muller, a French journalist working in New York, started the hashtag BalanceTonPorc, or ExposeYourPig, in October with a series of posts on Twitter that encouraged women to speak out against sexual harassment and that accused a former television executive of having made humiliating advances toward her.The former executive, Eric Brion, has not denied the advances but argued that she was wrong to characterize them as sexual harassment.Tens of thousands of women in France adopted Ms. Muller’s hashtag to recount their own experiences, spurring a debate on gender relations and sexual norms. Most recently, a letter signed by the actress Catherine Deneuve and scores of other women to denounce the #MeToo and #BalanceTonPorc movements set off a strong backlash.AdvertisementBut unlike many of the women who took to social media with their stories, Ms. Muller named the man — Mr. Brion, a media consultant and former executive at the public broadcaster France Télévisions and the horse-racing channel Equidia.Advertisement“You have big breasts. You are my type of woman. I will make you orgasm all night,” she quoted him as having said, at what she later described as a social event during a television festival in Cannes, on the French Riviera.Ms. Muller said in a statement published on Facebook on Wednesday that Mr. Brion was now suing her for defamation and was asking for 50,000 euros in damages (about $61,200), as well as €10,000 in legal fees (about $12,200) and the publication in media outlets, at her expense, of the court’s ruling.“I will go to the end of this fight with the help of my lawyer and I hope that this trial will be an opportunity to have a real debate on ways of fighting against sexual harassment,” wrote Ms. Muller, who in December was included by Time magazine as one of the “silence breakers” it named person of the year for 2017.A lawyer for Mr. Brion confirmed the suit but declined to comment further. In an interview published on Thursday in the newsweekly Le Point, Mr. Brion said his life had been upended by the accusations.He said that some media outlets incorrectly referred to him as a former boss of Ms. Muller, that he was targeted by demeaning social media posts and that he lost multiple job opportunities.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I am surrounded by good people, I was lucky enough to go abroad to take a step back, but are we thinking about the effect that this kind of outpouring can have on a fragile personality?” Mr. Brion said.In his interview with Le Point, and in an op-ed published in December in Le Monde, Mr. Brion acknowledged he had made the crude comments.“Nevertheless, what does my conduct have to do with the case of Harvey Weinstein, who is accused of rape and sexual assault by several women?” Mr. Brion wrote in Le Monde, stressing that the comments were made only once, under the influence of alcohol, that he did not work with Ms. Muller, and that he had apologized soon after.AdvertisementBut Alexis Guedj, Ms. Muller’s lawyer, said in a phone interview that his client worked in a field where a wide range of settings could be considered akin to a workplace, even though Mr. Brion was neither a colleague nor a superior of Ms. Muller.“There has to be a debate on this issue: Is a professional relationship the same in all professions?” said Mr. Guedj, who argued that social events like cocktail parties could be considered in some fields, like the media, as professional settings because deals are struck and hiring decisions are made. He noted Ms. Muller’s publication had written about Equidia and Mr. Brion on several occasions.The case is not expected to go to court for several months.Follow Aurelien Breeden on Twitter: @aurelienbrd.A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: MeToo Figure In France  Sued by Man She Accused.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By LINDA QIUJAN. 17, 2018
WASHINGTON — Even as he is embroiled in an immigration policy debate that has focused on whether he used vulgar language to describe Haiti and African countries, President Trump is claiming that he is delivering for black Americans — and that they are repaying him with their support.In a Twitter post on Tuesday morning, Mr. Trump said that “unemployment for Black Americans is the lowest ever recorded” and “Trump approval ratings with black Americans has doubled.” He appeared to credit the comments to a segment on “Fox & Friends,” the morning program on Fox News.
            Unemployment for Black Americans is the lowest ever recorded. Trump approval ratings with Black Americans has doubled. Thank you, and it will get even (much) better! @FoxNews The tweet — half misleading and half downright false — demonstrates how inaccurate information can trickle to the president’s social media, which is then is viewed by millions of people on Twitter and Facebook.“Believe it or not, through all this negative coverage, they did a survey of 600,000 people about how black America views this president. His numbers have actually doubled,” Brian Kilmeade, a “Fox & Friends” host, said during the segment that was broadcast Tuesday morning.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kilmeade was almost certainly referring to a distorted finding from SurveyMonkey, an online polling company. Since Mr. Trump’s inauguration, the company has conducted 602,134 interviews with adults of every race group — not just “black America,” as Mr. Kilmeade said.AdvertisementSurveyMonkey’s results, provided to The New York Times, show that Mr. Trump’s approval ratings among black Americans actually declined from 20 percent in February 2017, his first full month in office, to 15 percent in December. (This is consistent with polling from the Pew Research Center and Reuters.)AdvertisementHow did Mr. Kilmeade and, by extension, Mr. Trump arrive at his approval doubling among black Americans?SurveyMonkey broke out some of the results for The Atlantic, telling the magazine in a report that was published last week that 23 percent of black men and 11 percent of black women approved of Mr. Trump’s performance.Breitbart News followed with its own report on Sunday, comparing the SurveyMonkey results with exit polls from the 2016 presidential campaign.
                President Trump’s approval rating fell across many demographic groups over his first year in office, including among those seen as important to his base.            “That score averages out to 17 percent, or twice the 8 percent score he was given in the 2016 exit polls,” Breitbart reasoned in an article headlined, “Donald Trump’s Support Among Blacks Has Doubled Since 2016, Amid Racism Claims.”It is inaccurate to simply take the average of two genders without taking into account the number of people who were actually interviewed for the poll. SurveyMonkey interviewed roughly 19,000 black men and 31,000 black women.It is also wrong to compare exit polls to SurveyMonkey’s results. The company surveyed adults who both are, and are not, registered to vote. By contrast, exit polls necessarily survey people who have just voted.The 6.8 percent unemployment rate for black Americans in December is indeed the lowest since 1972, according to the latest monthly data that is available from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. But the rate has been in decline for several years, decreasing steadily from 16.4 percent in August 2011 to 7.8 percent in January 2017.The December figures also do not reflect a significantly different racial unemployment gap. The black unemployment rate has consistently been double that of the white unemployment rate, and remained at that level in December. Presidents, especially in their first year, generally do not single-handedly influence the labor markets — as Mr. Trump suggests.What else should we check? Email factcheck@nytimes.com. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on January 18, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Distorting Poll’s Data, Then Lying About It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MATTHEW LUXMOOREJAN. 15, 2018
MOSCOW — Two masked teenagers armed with knives stormed a school in the central Russian city of Perm on Monday, wounding at least 12 people, most of them elementary school students.A teacher and a 16-year-old pupil who tried to intervene sustained serious stab wounds to the neck, officials said.The two youths — one said to be a current student, the other a former student who was expelled — entered School 127, in the Motovilikhinsky district around 10 a.m. They came in through a back entrance, unnoticed by a security guard, and broke into a fourth-grade classroom, local news outlets reported.One assailant pounced on students while the other blocked the classroom door, a witness told the newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda. “They said they’re going to slaughter everyone. We initially thought it was a joke,” the Perm news site 59.ru quoted another as saying.AdvertisementWithin 10 minutes, the school was evacuated and eight ambulances arrived, the Perm region’s Health Ministry said in a statement. Twelve people were hospitalized, including two children and a teacher with serious stab wounds; nine children ages 10 and 11 sustained minor wounds, the statement said.AdvertisementA teacher who tried to intervene, identified by local news outlets as Natalya Shagulina, was reported to be undergoing emergency surgery after heavy blood loss, the RBC newspaper reported.The two assailants were also wounded.Two suspects were detained, although the motives for the attack were not immediately clear. A social media profile that local news outlets said ws linked to one of the suspects contained dozens of posts about the massacre at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo., in April 1999, in which two teenagers armed with guns and explosives killed 12 students and a teacher, before killing themselves.The profile, on the Russian social media platform VK, also links to a group called “(School)shooters”, which comes with the disclaimer: “We do not advocate violence and we detest it in any form. We are simply a fact-finding group for information-gathering purposes. (18+).” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The police in Perm, in the Ural Mountains, said in a statement that one of the assailants was a patient at a local mental hospital.The Perm attack followed a spate of similar ones across Russia in recent months, which have prompted a debate about security measures at the country’s schools and universities.On Sept. 5, four pupils were wounded at a school outside Moscow after a student attacked a teacher with a kitchen knife and then opened fire with an air gun. The 15-year-old assailant had also posted about the Columbine School massacre on social media, the Russian news media reported at the time. On Nov. 1, an 18-year-old college student in Moscow stabbed a teacher to death and posted selfies with the body on social media.Guns are difficult to purchase legally in Russia.Responding to the Perm attack, Russia’s ombudsman for children, Anna Kuznetsova, criticized in a Facebook post the security measures in place at the school. “Can it really be that no one was there to stop the hooligans other than 10-year-old children? What about the prevention systems in place?” she said. “Where was all this??!! I have a lot of questions.”Dmitry S. Peskov, the spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, said that it was too early to say if any changes to security measures at Russian schools would be required.“Let’s wait to hear from the experts and not engage in amateurish speculation,” he said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ELIZABETH PATONJAN. 15, 2018

            Back to work! Start the year with new frames from the Spring Summer 2018 #VBEyewear collection inspired by 1970s retro classics and updated for a feathery-light, fresh and modern look. Available at https://t.co/z8jKj9nMGH and #VBDoverSt. #VBSS18 pic.twitter.com/SDq0onL2EJ LONDON — The model in the latest Victoria Beckham eyewear advertising campaign looks young and waiflike, her twiglike limbs in a silken tunic and cotton-candy pink slacks, her face as full of sharp angles as the square-frame tortoiseshell spectacles perched on her nose.The glossy image of the Lithuanian model Giedre Dukauskaite, published by Ms. Beckham on social media last week as she unveiled designs from her spring and summer 2018 eyewear range, has drawn a fierce public response. It is not the first time the fashion designer has been accused of promoting an unhealthy body image while advertising her luxury products, and is just the latest campaign to fan the perennial debate around when thin is too thin.In a recent study the research and advocacy group Model Alliance conducted in conjunction with Harvard and Northeastern University, the results of which were published in the International Journal of Eating Disorders, 81 percent of the models surveyed reported a body mass index of less than 18.5, which the World Health Organization considers underweight.
            *NEW COLUMN*This photo made me feel physically sick & will have a far more damaging effect on many young women. Shame on you, Victoria Beckham. https://t.co/gLulE2BBTz pic.twitter.com/oVmXY782cv “Victoria Beckham’s shocking and shameful promotional image made me feel physically sick — but will have a far more damaging effect on many impressionable young girls who see it,” the writer and TV host Piers Morgan wrote in his Mail Online column on Monday. He went on to call Ms. Beckham a “shameless and dangerous hypocrite” who had pledged in the past not to use models who were too thin.AdvertisementHundreds of social media users agreed. Elena Mata Westerman commented on Ms. Beckham’s Facebook post, saying: “Eyes didn’t even notice the glasses. The model was the focus. Sickly skinny! Beckham should be ashamed promoting eating disorders. Her young daughter is heavier than her models. Shame.”Advertisement“Model used for Victoria Beckham’s new glasses range looks emaciated,” Veronique Landew wrote on Twitter. Not a great role model for women. It’s quite painful to look at.”Although some people cautioned against body-shaming Ms. Dukauskaite, 29, calling for greater acceptance of all body shapes and sizes, the overwhelming majority voiced concern that fashion houses continue to encourage potentially hazardous behaviors by glamorizing models who are rail-thin.
            A model who looks like a teenager with severe anorexia is the face for the #VBEyeware 2018 summer collection. This is the reason why every study done on social media and advertising calls the threat to young girls’ mental health “dire”. @victoriabeckham pic.twitter.com/xS6hC2SwlW Ms. Beckham, whose own weight has frequently come under public scrutiny, did not respond to requests for comment.This latest outcry comes six months after the French Parliament published two new decrees aimed at protecting the health of models, preventing anorexia and promoting transparency around digitally retouched photographs. Models there need a doctor’s certificate to certify they are fit to work, and employers can be jailed or fined 75,000 euros, or about $91,500, if the rules are breached.In September, the French luxury groups LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton and Kering unveiled a joint charter in which they committed not to use ultrathin or underage models, in response to criticism of how young women were portrayed and treated in the fashion world.It also follows decisions by the Advertising Standards Authority of Britain to ban certain ads, such as a Gucci shot that depicted what was deemed an “unhealthily thin” young woman.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JASON HOROWITZJAN. 24, 2018
ROME — The serpent in the Garden of Eden hissed the first fake news to Eve and it all went downhill from there, Pope Francis wrote in a major document about the phenomenon of fake news released on Wednesday.“We need to unmask what could be called the ‘snake-tactics’ used by those who disguise themselves in order to strike at any time and place,” the pope wrote in a message ahead of what the church has designated as its World Day of Social Communications, in May.Arguing that the “crafty” serpent’s effective disinformation campaign to get Eve to eat from the tree of knowledge “began the tragic history of human sin,” he added, “I would like to contribute to our shared commitment to stemming the spread of fake news.”Pope Francis has worn many hats since his election in 2013 — Vatican reformer; global advocate for refugees, the poor, and world peace; and, more recently, defender of bishops accused of covering up for pedophile priests.AdvertisementBut in a varyingly sophisticated, spiritual and questionable analysis of the fake news epidemic, the 81-year-old pontiff tried on the cap of contemporary media critic to address an issue that has wreaked havoc and undermined democracies from the United States to Europe and beyond.AdvertisementIn doing so, he offered a largely cleareyed assessment of the problem, its social impact, and the responsibility of social media giants and journalists. And he called on news consumers to break out of their comfortable echo chambers and cushy news feeds by seeking out different points of view.But at times the pope also conflated fake news, which is politically or economically motivated disinformation, with an incremental and sensational style of journalism he dislikes — a muddying of the waters that many democracy advocates have worried is corrosive to a free press and to the ideal of an informed populace.He also failed to mention the political leaders who have used the phrase to discredit journalists and to dismiss inconvenient reporting.Betraying a somewhat antiquated view that separates dead-tree and digital outlets, the pope defined fake news as the spreading “online or in the traditional media” of disinformation that is intended to deceive and manipulate consumers for political and economic interests.He observed that fake news is effective because, like the snake in the garden, it insidiously mimics real news, and is “captious” — pope for clickbait — meaning that it grabs people’s attention by exploiting “emotions like anxiety, contempt, anger and frustration.”Francis identified social networks as the delivery systems for such fake news.“Untrue stories can spread so quickly that even authoritative denials fail to contain the damage,” he wrote, adding that those living virtual lives in like-minded silos allow disinformation to thrive and that the absence of opposing viewpoints turns people into “unwilling accomplices in spreading biased and baseless ideas.”Russian hackers took advantage of just such conditions in the 2016 American elections, sowing discord and attempting to sway the electorate through sophisticated influence campaigns. Francis steered clear of such real-world examples. Instead, he broadly identified greed as a key engine for the spread of fake news.Advertisement“Fake news often goes viral, spreading so fast that it is hard to stop, not because of the sense of sharing that inspires the social media, but because it appeals to the insatiable greed so easily aroused in human beings,” he wrote.The results, he said, are soul-killing.Turning to the “The Brothers Karamazov,” he quoted Dostoyevsky: “People who lie to themselves and listen to their own lie come to such a pass that they cannot distinguish the truth within them, or around them, and so lose all respect for themselves and for others.” This leads to the coarsening of society, Francis said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.To combat fake news, the pope called for personal efforts to unmask disinformation, but he also praised educational programs, regulatory efforts and social media companies’ progress in verifying personal identities “concealed behind millions of digital profiles.”In recent years, the European Union and several European countries have established offices to combat fake news — this week, Britain became the latest. And fake news has emerged as a major theme in the Italian elections scheduled for March 4, and it is often discussed in the Italian news media that imbues the Vatican.The speaker of the lower house of the Italian Parliament, Laura Boldrini, has backed a program in Italian public schools to teach children how to identify fake news. The government announced this month an online service through the country’s postal police that would respond to, and assess, accusations of fake news.Likewise, Matteo Renzi, the leader of Italy’s governing Democratic Party, has pressed Facebook to monitor its platform for fake news. Facebook has said it would dispatch a task force to address the problem before the Italian election.Globally, Facebook’s more consequential contribution may be a major policy change announced this month: It plans to step back from its de facto role as the world’s news publisher. In the United States, more lawmakers are interested in regulating social media giants as they do traditional television broadcasters.But the pope argued that the most “radical antidote” to the scourge of fake news lies in “purification by the truth.” In Christianity, he said, that means living the truth through faith in Jesus, who, he observed, said, “I am the truth” and “the truth will set you free.”Along those lines, he argued that the marshaling of undeniable facts to hurt and discredit others “is not truthful.” Nor is any statement that provokes quarrels, division or resignation, he said. The truth, in the pope’s reading, leads to dialogue and “fruitful results.”AdvertisementTo achieve a climate of open-minded dialogue, Francis exalted journalists, who have been generally demonized by President Trump and other leaders in efforts to undercut critical coverage. The pope called them the “protectors of news” and characterized their profession as a “mission.”“Informing others means forming others; it means being in touch with people’s lives,” he wrote. “That is why ensuring the accuracy of sources and protecting communication are real means of promoting goodness, generating trust, and opening the way to communion and peace.”That message — and his appeal to cover the powerless, voiceless and downtrodden — could be found in many a Journalism 101 class. Less so his distaste for the “mad rush for a scoop” and focus on “audience impact” and “breaking news.”Also, the value on revelations that the pope seems to think is overemphasized is what many journalists would argue is the greatest service the profession can provide to the powerless, as in the case of Vatican sex abuse and financial scandals.As the pope sees it, journalists less focused on scoops, news consumers more open to other views, and social media companies and officials more committed to safeguarding the web would open eyes to mimicry — what Francis called “that sly and dangerous form of seduction that worms its way into the heart with false and alluring arguments” — and thus cast that original and slithering bearer of fake news from the garden.A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: For Pope Francis, Fake News Goes Back to the Garden of Eden.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MIKE IVES and CHARLES McDERMIDJAN. 22, 2018
Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • The U.S. government shutdown is over: President Trump signed a bill funding the government through Feb. 8, giving lawmakers more time for immigration talks.In return for the Democrats’ support, Republican leaders promised to address the fate of young, undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. Here’s how each senator voted and a look at the bipartisan group that reached the deal._____• In South Korea, demonstrators used a blowtorch to burn a large photo of Kim Jong-un as a North Korean delegation was met with protests as it traveled through Seoul.But South Korean leaders still hope that the North’s participation in the Winter Olympics next month will ease tensions over Pyongyang’s nuclear program.AdvertisementFor South Korea’s scrappy women’s ice hockey team, solidarity has come with frustration: Some of the players are being forced to give up spots to North Koreans.AdvertisementAnd in Tokyo, the authorities conducted the city’s first evacuation drill for a hypothetical North Korean missile._____• Another chapter in the case of Hong Kong’s vanishing booksellers.Gui Minhai was one of five publishers who disappeared in 2015 and later resurfaced in China in police custody. Now Mr. Gui, who has Swedish citizenship, above right, has been snatched from a Beijing-bound train while traveling with two Swedish diplomats.His daughter told our correspondent: “I just know that things have taken a very drastic turn for the worse.”_____• For much of the 20th century, Qatar was a barren Persian Gulf backwater.Then, in 1971, the country struck gas. Its citizens quickly became rich, and it now has the highest average income in the world ($125,000). Above, a skating rink in Doha, the capital.But since June, the upstart has been the target of a boycott led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Now, our correspondent explains, Qatar is in the fight of its life._____• A mud mask for the Taj Mahal?For more than 350 years, monsoon rains in Agra were enough to keep the dirt off India’s 17th-century monument to eternal love. But worsening pollution has turned parts of the marble facade yellow and black.To remove the discoloration, workers suspended on scaffolding are caking Fuller’s earth — a mud paste used in facials that absorbs dirt, grease and animal excrement — on the entire structure.Advertisement_____• A shocker at the Australian Open.Hyeon Chung, a 21-year-old South Korean, defeated his boyhood idol, Novak Djokovic, the six-time champion. Mr. Chung, above left, will now play another surprise quarterfinalist, Tennys Sandgren, an unseeded American.On the women’s side, top-seeded Simona Halep dispatched Naomi Osaka and will face sixth-seeded Karolina Pliskova. Check here for full event coverage.Finally, what’s up with fans wanting athletes to battle extreme heat? A Times contributor asks “Would you appreciate a Daniel Day-Lewis performance more because it was done in a storage freezer?”What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Finding a single Bitcoin token can take as much electricity as an average U.S. home consumes in two years. For some virtual currency enthusiasts, that’s a problem.• The Chinese government is considering adopting something that could dramatically reshape the world’s second-largest economy: a property tax.• Facebook says it wants to focus on “meaningful social interactions” instead of branded content. Could that be an opening for the social network’s nascent video section? And our columnist asks, is a healthier Facebook just ... Instagram?• Champagne may flow more freely at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this year amid waning fears about populism. This year’s most anticipated attendee is President Trump.• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• The Mayon volcano in the Philippines is spewing ash more than 4,000 feet high in a spectacular show of power. Officials said a hazardous eruption could come at any time. [The New York Times]Advertisement• Turkish troops began a ground assault against U.S.-allied Kurdish militias in northeast Syria. [The New York Times]• The U.S. Embassy in Israel would move to Jerusalem before the end of 2019, Vice President Mike Pence told Israeli lawmakers. [The New York Times]• The Philippine  authorities arrested an Iraqi explosives expert who they said has ties to extremist militants in the Middle East. [The New York Times]• In Vietnam, a court sentenced a high-profile energy official to life in prison on embezzlement charges as part of a corruption crackdown. [Reuters]• Two polio vaccinators — a mother-daughter team — were shot dead in Pakistan last week. But officials said the eradication campaign would continue. [The New York Times]• And Tonga’s flag-bearer from the Rio Olympics will be competing as a cross-country skier at the Winter Games. He switched after a disappointing loss in taekwondo in 2016. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Tonight, make the best broccoli and Cheddar soup you’ve ever had.• The trick to finishing any task: Slice it up into easily achievable micro-goals, and celebrate small wins.Advertisement• How can you maintain friendships?• Most people are bad at naming what they smell. But a group of hunter-gatherers on the Malay Peninsula appear to be an exception — and researchers worry that globalization may disrupt their vibrant odor lexicon.•  Kangaroos get a lot of press. But did you know millions are slaughtered every year in Australia to provide meat for cats, dogs and humans? A new documentary looks at the practice.•  And meet Mark Epstein, a psychotherapist who explains how Buddhism can enrich Western psychology. “No one really understands emptiness or ‘no-self’ the way they might,” he said.“Remember the Maine!” was the rallying cry of the Spanish-American War. Many North Americans surely remember the Alamo. But has the world forgotten the U.S.S. Pueblo?On this day in 1968, the Pueblo, a lightly armed Navy intelligence ship, was attacked and seized by North Korean patrol boats. Its crew of 83 servicemen was taken to Pyongyang and charged as spies. Washington denounced the seizure, but could do little: It soon became a tense Cold War standoff.A Times editorial called the attack “humiliating,” and a prisoner drama — marked by fraught negotiations, forced confessions and propaganda ploys — dragged on for 11 months. Here’s more about the Pueblo incident.The Americans told of beatings, torture and deprivation, but they still found ways to get back at their captors. They slipped outrageous puns into self-written confessions, such as this one by the ship’s commander, and surreptitiously raised their middle fingers in films and photographs. (The sailors said it was the Hawaiian good luck salute.)In the end, Washington reluctantly apologized, and the Pueblo crew was home in time for Christmas. The Pueblo itself is still in Pyongyang, where it’s  a tourist attraction at the Victorious War Museum.Advertisement_____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Browse past briefings here. We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Good luck today.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Compiled by ANNA DUBENKOJAN. 12, 2018
New York Times reporters and editors are highlighting great stories from around the web. You can receive What We’re Reading by email, and let us know how you like it at wwr@nytimes.com.From St. Louis Magazine: Eric Greitens, the Republican governor of Missouri and potential presidential candidate, plunged this week into a sex scandal involving claims of blackmail. (He has admitted to an affair but denied other allegations.) In 2016, St. Louis Magazine profiled Mr. Greitens in depth as an extraordinarily driven and outwardly “perfect” politician. But the author, Jeannette Cooperman, wondered presciently if he was perhaps “too good to be true and hiding some dark flaw no one can find.” — Alex Burns, political reporter, national_____From The New York Times: On Thursday, Congress voted to reauthorize the federal government’s ability to conduct warrantless surveillance. The reaction to the news was not uniform along party lines, however. On the right, left and center, writers disagreed about whether Section 702 — which allows spy agencies to listen in on conversations even if Americans are involved — was a constitutional breach. — Anna Dubenko, senior digital strategist_____From The Cut: Like everyone else, I’ve been reading all content that is Shitty Media Men-related and having conversations about the ethics of the list. The woman who began the list wrote this essay this week, and there are a lot of things to discuss, as I said, but the thing I keep thinking of is: She is a great writer with a bravery I could not have summoned at her age. (She writes that she graduated college in 2013.) She was let go from her job at the New Republic, so I hope there is a line out the door of people who want to hire her. Writers this good are few and far between. — Taffy Brodesser-Akner, features writer, Culture and staff writer, MagazineAdvertisement_____From Inverse: A fascinating look at how modern day snake oil salesmen thrive and prosper. That is, at the leisure of content farms and investor-backed platforms eager for clicks, and social media platforms that thrive by farming celebrities. And all of this comes at the expense of people suffering with myriad illnesses that could be properly treated, and researchers whose hard work is overshadowed by flashy, unsubstantiated claims. — Alan Henry, Smarter Living editorAdvertisement_____From The New Yorker: There is a restaurant in Paris where the guests dine in the nude. Henry Alford gets a meal at O Naturel, and goes through the qualms that the rest of us might. (What to do with the napkin? On your lap, and fast.) Your very naturel questions are answered. (Yes, they change the slipcovers after every seating.) This story is a nifty little amuse-bouche. — John Schwartz, climate change reporter_____From The Atlantic: You’ve seen the ads on Facebook or Instagram. Some clothing item, a coat, maybe, or a dress, that looks nice enough — not obviously cheap, and a little more luxurious than you’d get at your local mall. But it’s from a brand you’ve never heard of. Low cost, high quality, right? Not so much. — Erin McCann, senior staff editor_____From The New Yorker: If you’ve been paying attention, you’ve heard the phrase “toxic masculinity” as women and some men continue to speak out against their workplace harassers. But what about “toxic femininity”? The New Yorker (humorously — this piece is satire) lists all the ways unrestrained women impact their offices, including the unspeakable act of finishing meetings early because no one feels the need to to speak at length on irrelevant points. — Hailey Persinger, associate product manager_____We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By TERRY SULLIVANJAN. 11, 2018
“I’ve seen it all,” says the award-winning National Geographic photographer Ami Vitale, about backing up her photos. “I’ve had hard drives fail throughout my career. For example, back when I first started as a photographer, I had a very nice hard drive system in my home, and the whole thing failed.” In retrospect, Ms. Vitale says, she would have definitely set the system up differently.“I lost some historic moments from the first part of my career,” she says, “and they’re gone forever.”Ms. Vitale may shoot photos differently from how most of us capture images these days — she shoots with a digital single-lens-reflex camera (or DSLR). But her cautionary tale should resonate, since many of the same vulnerabilities exist when photographing with smartphones. In other words, if you’re snapping away without a backup plan for your photos, beware: In an instant, you could lose them all, forever.Before I explain how to back up your photos, it’s useful to understand one important aspect of digital photos that relates to storing them properly. Namely, image resolution.AdvertisementEvery digital photo has a certain image resolution, which is the total number of pixels that make up a photo. If an image you shot on your smartphone, say, is 4,000 pixels high by 3,000 pixels wide, it contains a total of 12 million pixels (the height multiplied by the width). Since one million pixels is known as a megapixel, the resolution of your smartphone image is 12 megapixels.AdvertisementNow, say you upload that photo to Facebook. When you post it, Facebook, in most instances, downsizes the resolution, or reduces the number of pixels to make it smaller. It may digitally compress it, too, throwing out additional data important to image quality. However, it’s often difficult to visually detect if an image file has been altered, particularly on a smartphone’s small screen. It’s why you might think you’ve backed up your image when uploading it to Facebook or other social media sites, but that’s not really the case.But right now, most websites, including social media and even photo-printing sites, aren’t designed to truly store photos. That’s because when you back up your photos, you want to be able to retrieve an image file that is as close to, if not identical to, the original photo you captured on your phone or digital camera. That’s also why you want to carefully choose a backup solution, whether it’s online or an external hard drive.Unfortunately, preserving the original photo isn’t the only issue you’ll face when backing up your images. You also need to know that there’s no completely foolproof method to backing up your images. There’s always risk. Store images on a hard drive connected to your computer, and, as Ms. Vitale notes, it can fail. Upload images to an online backup service and you face a different problem: You might think using a cloud service from an established company — like Apple, Google, or Amazon — would be safe. Yet, consider Kodak, which for decades functioned as a powerful and lucrative photography company. In fact, in 2001, it created an impressive photo-sharing and photo-storage site, called the Kodak Gallery. Yet, despite its heritage and know-how, the company declared bankruptcy in 2012, shutting down its entire operation, including the Kodak Gallery, where many photographers had images stored.The important takeaway here is that you should consider using a combination of services and solutions to safely back up photos. Ideally, store them both online and on two external hard drives (one stored locally and another at a different location). However, at the very least, consider using one online backup, which lets you copy and transfer the photos on your phone, as well as other devices, to an alternate location.One of the most effective ways to back up photos on smartphones is by using one of several well-known cloud services, such as Apple iCloud, Google Photos, Amazon’s Prime Photos, and Dropbox. One reason you should use them is that they all share an important feature: automatic backups. (Note: You’ll find this feature on other services, as well.) “You can never predict when a crash will happen or your phone will be stolen,” says Jill Duffy, a contributing technology editor who covers productivity for PCMag.com.Each also offers free versions to back up your photos, although it’s generally just a small amount of storage space. You’ll also want to be sure to drill down and examine the details of each service to find additional pros and cons. For example, the pricing model is very different on just these four services (not to mention other photo backup apps). Take Apple iCloud. It’s very well known, but it provides just five gigabytes of free storage to start for those with Apple devices, and just one GB if you don’t own one. For more space, you’ll pay a monthly fee: $0.99/month (50 GB), $2.99/month (200 GB), or $9.99/month (two terabytes). Apple lets you share storage space on the 200-GB and two-TB plans with your family. If you’re accustomed to Apple devices (and the service integrates nicely with Apple products) and are willing to splurge for a monthly fee, iCloud might serve your needs. But if you own an Android device, it might not be the best solution.By contrast, you get free, unlimited photo storage on Google Photos, allowing you to automatically back up all images from your phone, computer and other devices. Google also recently updated its app for desktop computers, which now can automatically upload photos directly into Google Photos when transferring images from your camera to your computer, which is very convenient.A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.However, Google Photos has limitations as well. If you shoot photos with a resolution larger than 16 megapixels, they’ll be downsized, which some photographers find unacceptable. At this time, smartphones mostly capture 12- or 16-megapixel photos, which won’t be affected, but some models already exceed that limit, as do many digital cameras.AdvertisementBoth Amazon Prime Photos and Dropbox have their pros and cons, too. If you have an Amazon Prime account, Prime Photos can be a great option, since, like Google Photos, you get free, unlimited storage, which includes the ability to store RAW images, which are those high quality files for photo editing on an image editor. But you need to pay for an Amazon Prime account.Dropbox has long been a popular backup option for many photographers; it is easy to use and works well on many platforms, but you get only two GB of free storage, and additional storage is pricey ($9.99/month or $99/year for one TB).For serious photographers who shoot lots of photos, there are additional options: Some shutterbugs splurge for robust photo-organizing software packages, including apps by ACDSee, Mylio and Adobe, which, for a fee, include online cloud storage. In fact, Adobe recently updated its professional photo organizer, Lightroom, and expanded its cloud-storage plans, which are available at various prices.As the name implies, external hard drives, which range in price from $50 (one to two TB) to $350 and up (eight TB), are like the storage that’s built into your computers, except they’re connected externally. Most hook up via a USB connection, although there are other methods. (For instance, network attached storage, or NAS, drives, connect via an Ethernet line to your home or office network.) As with your internal drive, there are many ways to transfer, copy, or sync your photos. You can also automate your backup using your computer’s operating system, the external hard-drive’s software, or a third-party backup software app or service.If you need suggestions for a good external hard drive, Wirecutter, the New York Times product-review site, has a roundup of options at different sizes and price points here.Our personal library of images generally doesn’t end with just our digital photos. Many of us also own precious prints, photo albums, slides and negatives, some of which can be decades old.To back them up properly, you’ll need to digitize or scan them. There are scanning services available where you can mail or drop off your prints and negatives and get digital versions created for you, although some can be pricey. You can also scan them yourself if you have an all-in-one printer that can scan, or a dedicated scanner. If you’re not looking for a high-end scan, though, use Google’s PhotoScan mobile app, which lets you use your phone’s camera like a scanner to capture photos, even if they’re framed and behind glass. (The app is pretty effective at eliminating glare and reflection.) For slides and negatives, though, you’ll need to scan them yourself, or have a service process them for you.AdvertisementWhatever backup system you eventually select, whether it’s just an online solution or a combination of several services and hard drives, it’s important to monitor the system. Be sure to periodically check it and make sure it’s backing up your photos correctly.Consider these tips from Jill Duffy, Ami Vitale and myself, when backing up your images:• Label folders: “If your backup system lets you, sort your photos into folders, and label them by occasion, date, or both,” Ms. Duffy says.• Keep a folder of your favorite shots: Ms. Vitale recommends storing your best images in a folder on your computer’s desktop, and, periodically, creating a special backup of just these images. But, she says, you’ll need to take a little time and edit your shots after each trip or event, and choose only your best shots.• Add context: “Photographers should be diligent and write captions for their photos,” Ms. Vitale says, since it’s easy to forget important facts about your subjects. “The story behind your image is essential, and can be just as important as the picture itself.”• Start by backing up today’s photo: In Ms. Duffy’s book, “Get Organized,” she suggests ignoring past photos, since backing them up can be an overwhelming task. “Rather than organize your entire photo collection, consider just putting in place a workflow and system of organizing them moving forward.”• Test your backup periodically: When your backup system is in place, be sure to test it, at least every month or every other month. For instance, try restoring a small group of photos from the past. Also, check your backup service to see if it includes a feature that lets you test a backup after it’s complete.A version of this article appears in print on January 18, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: A Beginner’s Guide to Backing Up Photos.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Viet Thanh NguyenLOS ANGELES — A bathroom at 4:45 a.m. is quiet. I try to wake at this time, three hours before my 4-year-old son does, so I can write, even in a hotel bathroom. I have not checked email, Twitter or Instagram, and last year I got off Facebook.I have not regretted it. Facebook was constant stimulation, distraction and turmoil — constant noise — and what I have longed for the past year was peace and calm. I want these things so that I could listen and write, but also so I could be a better son, father, husband and human being, which are all just as difficult, if not more than so, than being a better writer.I had been gentle with my 82-year-old father during Christmas, but as I prepared to leave his house, I snapped at him when I felt that he had nagged me one too many times. I immediately regretted it. All he wanted was for me to listen to him.That regret was surely on my mind when I took a walk after dinner later that night with my wife and son, and a man pushing a shopping cart loaded with his belongings asked me for the box of leftovers I had in my hand. I hesitated. It had half a pizza that my son would surely demand as soon as it was bedtime, but I gave it to the man, along with $2. My wife observed that I would not normally do such a thing.But I had been doing such things whenever my son was with me, rolling down the window of my car when he was in his Batman car seat behind me, so I could give an old man on the median a dollar. I wanted to teach my son a lesson about generosity, and I wanted to be, in his eyes, a kind person.He is cognizant and curious about morality and ethics, at the level of preschool behaviors, parent-child negotiations, apocalyptic superhero conflicts and science fiction wars. As most parents would, I have tried to teach him about giving, sharing, listening and empathy. And yet in my own life, away from his gaze, I have sometimes failed in all those respects.My own ambitions and the dreadfulness of our political world consume and distract me. I taught my son the face and name of the man who is president, along with a few negative words for him. That was wrong. Not just for the sake of the person who is president, and for all the people who voted for him, but for my own sake. To call someone else stupid is to release anger, bitterness and vitriol into my own bloodstream, poisoning me. I need only to read the Twitter feed of Donald Trump to see this happening.Let that not happen to me, that I become like him. Let me empathize with him, so that I can understand him and feel for him as a human being, even as I oppose him in almost all matters.A meal I shared with a Vietnamese-American Buddhist monk provoked some of this thinking. At the end of our meal, we closed our eyes and meditated, focused on our breathing, on the passage of air over our upper lips, on the stillness within ourselves.I listened to his steady, quiet voice guide me and my breathing. I believe, as he tells me, as my Catholic tradition tells me, that there will be no end to war until each of us calms the conflicts within ourselves. A simple task, to change only ourselves, and yet such a difficult one. I resolve to hold the shell of my self up to my ear every day, to listen to the sound of my own self, before I set out into the unsettled world, as I must.While our religions instruct us to behave ourselves, I find that my son teaches me, too, even as I teach him. What have I learned from our relationship this year? That we must believe in what is good and right, without demonizing those that we oppose; that we must fight for what we believe in, without recourse to hate or insults; that we must give, in ways great and small, to distant organizations and the people we meet face to face; that we must connect to others who believe as we do, and grow our values and our organizations; that we must write and read what is meaningful, and ignore the morass of public opinion and media-induced emotions.If we all do this, perhaps we can change our country, even in the face of entrenched power, the oligarchy of billionaires, the fear and hatred of those who feel powerless. It will take years to stop the tax cuts and the environmental assault, and it may take forever to stop our forever wars and to dismantle racism and patriarchy. But we can stop the moral and political degradation. We can say: Me, too, or I support you. We can say: Enough. We can say: What can I do?I gave money to Mai-Khanh Tran, a California Democrat who might beat the Republican incumbent, Ed Royce, in a House race. I support Pivot, a Vietnamese-American progressive network started by my brother, Dr. Tung Thanh Nguyen, who resigned from a White House commission rather than serve the current administration. I gave money and raised money for the Diasporic Vietnamese Artists Network and its blog, because I believe that arts and stories matter in changing our minds and therefore our world.I continue to write and to give talks in parts of the country that are beautiful but alien to me. Even if this costs me time to write, I want to reach out to people who are different than me, as we all must. I want to listen to strangers and I continue to listen to my son, knowing that if I do not listen to him, he will not listen to me.That is true for all of us. Not everyone will listen, caught up in the noise, but enough might. Those who do not listen will never know what those who listen do: that it is the listening itself that matters, that listening is what connects us to others, and ourselves.Viet Thanh Nguyen, a contributing opinion writer, is the author, most recently, of “The Refugees,” and the editor of the forthcoming “The Displaced: Refugee Writers on Refugee Lives.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
The Saturday Profile By                     
FELIPE VILLAMOR

JAN. 19, 2018
MANILA — She runs one of the hottest blogs in the Philippines, and her work has never been more in demand. The country’s leading newspaper, the Philippine Daily Inquirer, named her one of the Filipinos of the Year for 2017.But there has been more trauma than celebration for Jover Laurio, a 38-year-old law student who runs the Pinoy Ako Blog. She has had to quit her day job, and her boyfriend walked out. In public, armed bodyguards now keep watch over her.That is because she is one of the most steadfast critics of the Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, chronicling extrajudicial killings and dissecting false claims made by him and his circle.Until a few months ago, Ms. Laurio was able to do it anonymously, even as the blog gained dedicated readers. It has well past 130,000 unique followers, and is growing quickly.AdvertisementBut during a Senate hearing last year on criticism in the media, Mr. Duterte’s social media team exposed Ms. Laurio as the force behind the blog. Within days, the president’s supporters were making threats against her and publishing her personal information, including her home address and where she studied.Advertisement“I wrote behind the cloak of anonymity, because when you write something against the government, about the children who are orphaned in this war on drugs, and if you call out the administration for false claims, you receive hate from the government’s army of trolls,” Ms. Laurio said in an interview during an event for the release of a book based on her blog. “But the threats are not enough to invalidate the issue that I am trying to point out: that the government lies.”Still, she is worried, despite having the bodyguards her friends are helping to pay for. And there is cause.On Monday, the government revoked the license for Rappler, an independent news outlet that has been a leading reporter of deaths and abuses in Mr. Duterte’s drug war. One of Mr. Duterte’s backers has directly taken aim at Ms. Laurio, accusing her in a lawsuit of online libel. She has countersued.Another sent her an online message in which he threatened to smash her face with a baseball bat the next time he saw her — suggesting he was watching.Through all that, Ms. Laurio’s posts on the Pinoy Ako Blog, written in Tagalog, have lost none of the dark humor and sarcasm that made the site so popular to begin with. Her admirers say her work has been brave and vital.“I think P.A.B. filled in a particular niche quite effectively, providing real-time, punchy and resonant attacks against a real and perceived purveyor of so-called fake news,” said Richard Javad Heydarian, a political analyst who wrote the book “The Rise of Duterte: A Populist Revolt Against Elite Democracy.”The attention given to Ms. Laurio and other outlets that are critical of Mr. Duterte speaks volumes “about the shift of information warfare” to the social media landscape, Mr. Heydarian said.AdvertisementMaria Ressa, the veteran journalist who runs Rappler, has long been a target of such warfare. In a particularly bad time, Ms. Laurio used the Pinoy Ako Blog to come to her defense.A wave of online harassers, many of them openly from the armed forces, were attacking Ms. Ressa. Ms. Laurio publicly called on the military chief to rein in his troops, and published several posts about soldiers discussing Ms. Ressa’s looks and whether they would have sex with her.The military later apologized, and Ms. Ressa credited Ms. Laurio’s blog for giving her “a sense of justice.”“I realized that I had stopped defending myself, and here was someone I didn’t know pointing out the horrors of what social media had become and the values it was rewarding,” said Ms. Ressa, who has documented the weaponization of social media by Duterte loyalists.Long before she was dragged into the public eye, Ms. Laurio experienced one struggle after another.She was orphaned at an early age: She was 10 when her mother died of appendicitis, she said, and her inconsolable father turned to alcohol and quickly followed suit. She was passed among a series of relatives, mostly on the central Philippine island of Masbate, until she turned 16, when she was officially adopted by an aunt.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She decided to go to Manila to study law, she said, because she wanted to help those who cannot afford legal help.Her online critics have attacked her credibility by saying she suffered a breakdown a decade ago and tried to commit suicide. Ms. Laurio was ready with an answer: She not only bluntly confirmed it, she went deeper, saying she has struggled with repressed anger since being molested as a child.Then there have been the political accusations, among them that she was being paid by the political campaign for Mr. Duterte’s closest rival in the 2016 election, Mar Roxas, to smear the president.She acknowledges volunteering for the Roxas campaign during the election, but insisted that she took no money for her work there.One of her first popular blog posts, posted on Facebook three months after Mr. Duterte was sworn in, was a list of 10 reasons she could not support the president. She noted the sharply increasing number of victims in his war on drugs, as well as his unabashed support for the family of Ferdinand Marcos, the former dictator.AdvertisementThat post was shared at least 28,000 times on social media. Shortly afterward, threats flooded her social media accounts, and her Facebook page was suspended repeatedly because of complaints from Duterte supporters. She decided to move the blog to a dedicated website.The site now has double the number of followers it had when Ms. Laurio was identified as the author late last year.Asked for comment, a spokesman for Mr. Duterte, Harry Roque, discounted Ms. Laurio’s blog. “I don’t read her,” he said.Ms. Laurio credits her blog’s popularity to a sense that ordinary Filipinos are growing more impatient with the government. Many have also been struck by her courage since government officials identified her. In naming her one of its Filipinos of the Year, the Philippine Daily Inquirer said that Ms. Laurio “stood out for her patriotic daring.”It has been difficult, though. Her higher profile made it impossible to continue her work at an Australian call center. And her boyfriend, an avid supporter of Mr. Duterte, distanced himself after Ms. Laurio went public.They have since reunited, having agreed to avoid talking about politics, and to unfollow each other’s social media accounts. They’re planning their wedding for 2020, she said.She acknowledges that she has thought at times about quitting as the threats have piled up. But an outpouring of support from friends and online followers has kept her going.Advertisement“The situation that we have right now is not acceptable,” Ms. Laurio said. “Our countrymen are dying on the streets each day. At the same time these politicians feel that they can just do whatever that they want.“Right now, I am jobless. But still doing the same thing — exposing and fighting the spread of fake news,” she added. “My love for this country is greater than the fear that I have about the administration or my detractors.“Every day, my mantra is: ‘I inhale courage and exhale fear.’”A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Outed by Duterte’s Allies, a Critic Stands Firm.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroAbout all that Mara Sanchez Renero knew about Afro-Mexicans was that they existed. And even that did not prepare her for the surprise she felt when she visited one of their communities in the Mexican state of Guerrero in 2014.  There, during a ceremonial dance with African roots known as the Dance of the Devil, she encountered scores of Afro-Mexicans.“There was another dance that is like a courtship between a man and woman, with very smooth music,” said Ms. Sanchez Renero, who was born in Mexico and spent a decade studying in Barcelona, Spain, where she studied photography. “And the people, so many people. I had been told that in one area they arrived a long time ago when a boat had capsized. That story stayed with me. I had not known the story of slavery and the importance of blacks in Mexico. I found this story, and my ignorance.”  That realization led her to look at a community that had long been denied recognition by the Mexican government.  They date back to the colonial era when the Spanish brought over enslaved workers from Portugal, a trade that continued until the mid-18th century. A step toward lifting that invisibility came in 2015 when the government recognized Afro-Mexican as a census category, estimating that a little under 1.4 million people identified themselves as such.“The Cimmarón and the Fandango” – its title referring to escaped slaves and a dance – is Ms. Sanchez Renero’s interpretation of her conversations and encounters with people in various communities in the Costa Chica region of Guerrero and Oaxaca.  Reaching out to some cultural figures and activists in the area, she enlisted the help of several locals to help her find subjects, whom she would later visit. During those resulting conversations, she got ideas for her photos, which she would first sketch out.“What was important to me was to tell a story,” she said.  “I wanted to do, like, an illustrated history. It was a personal reinterpretation. It was the things that resonated with me.”Fusing landscapes with images graced with symbolic touches, she set about making her images. Since the people of the region had been known for being skilled cowboys, she wanted to portray that, as well as the importance of fishing to these coastal communities. She also found ways to draw the parallels to their African roots, like when she noticed women balancing loads of firewood on their heads. “As you go on the roads you see women doing something we had identified with Africa, and I wanted to make that link. The woman surrounded by fire, the symbolism, it has elements of spirituality. I also blindfolded her eyes, because women are the great carriers of culture and educate their children. But there is also a lack of interest in maintaining it.” Government recognition may help preserve that culture, as well as strengthen the communities economically and socially, she said. “Afro-Mexicans have been in limbo,” she said. “They are Mexican and have the same rights as anyone. But they are in a situation similar to indigenous people, having to deal with poverty, lack of education, and limited resources and development. But they have not had the help that the government gives to indigenous people.”Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryBy FLORENCE FABRICANTJAN. 8, 2018
Whole roasted cauliflower as interpreted by Eyal Shani, an Israeli celebrity chef, is about to make its debut in New York. The chef’s signature dish will be on the menu at a branch of Miznon, his global group of casual counter-service restaurants, opening at Chelsea Market in a couple of weeks.The burnished head of cauliflower, first boiled in salt water that’s “always moving, like the sea,” as the chef put it, then gently massaged with olive oil and roasted, becomes a meltingly tender, pull-apart dish. Mr. Shani claims to have been the first to create it after noting a roasted head of cauliflower at the home of Shahar Segal, a filmmaker and advertising executive who is his partner at Miznon.Whether or not he was first, whole cauliflower and cauliflower steaks have become popular around the world. And to hear this 59-year-old chef with impressively sculpted hair tell it, the cauliflower is only one of his achievements, including, as he claims, inventing “the first carpaccio in the world made from fish.” He also boasts about his tomato sashimi. “The world started copying me, and nobody gave me credit,” he said.A self-taught chef who started his career in Jerusalem in 1989 with the high-end seafood restaurant Ocean, Mr. Shani became known for his bouillabaisse. “It was the best bouillabaisse because it was straight out of Julia Child’s book,” he said.AdvertisementHe eventually closed Ocean and spent several years consulting, catering and being a television celebrity chef.With Mr. Segal, he opened Miznon in Tel Aviv in 2011. It now has a dozen locations, in Tel Aviv; Paris; Vienna; Melbourne, Australia; and now New York. He saw it as a way to bring his food to a younger, more budget-minded audience.Advertisement“Young people did not come to my other restaurants because they couldn’t afford it,” he said.“I decided to give them street food, pita, with a difference, not with the usual shawarma and falafel but with fillings like shrimp in cream sauce and seared rib-eye,” he said. Traditional garnishes like onion slices, pickles and tahini sauce are added.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In New York, Miznon, whose partners include Moish Ziv, an owner of Ronnybrook Farm Dairy, is finished in wood and tile and has a long counter in front of an open kitchen. There’s seating at tables in the restaurant and outside in the concourse, and on stadium-style benches. There will be no waiter service, but runners will bring orders to those who opt to eat in.The menu, in addition to the cauliflower, includes “Run Over Potato,” a baked potato flattened like a carpaccio using a meat pounder and served with sour cream and herbs. But the focus is the slightly puffy, freshly baked, tender pitas with inventive fillings, including lobster with crème fraîche, ratatouille and egg, a Reuben pita and a moussaka pita.“Pita is the most genius bread in the world,” he said.And he did not claim to have invented it.Miznon, Chelsea Market, 75 Ninth Avenue (15th Street), 212-463-9600, miznonnyc.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: New York Is Next on the Menu for a Celebrity Israeli Chef.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JACEY FORTINJAN. 7, 2018
A prominent donor to the Democratic Party says she is considering withdrawing support for senators who urged their colleague Al Franken to resign after he was accused of sexual misconduct.The donor, Susie Tompkins Buell, has been one of the Democratic Party’s most generous supporters for decades. In particular, she has been a champion of female politicians, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Maria Cantwell of Washington.Last month, those senators were among the dozens who called for Mr. Franken to resign from the Senate after at least six women accused him of sexual harassment or misconduct, such as forcible kissing and groping.Mr. Franken announced his resignation on Dec. 7 before the Senate Ethics Committee had completed a review of the accusations, which he disputed.AdvertisementBefore he was elected to the Senate to represent Minnesota in 2008, Mr. Franken, a Democrat, was a well-known comedian and a cast member on “Saturday Night Live.” After he resigned, Lt. Gov. Tina Smith of Minnesota was named as his replacement.AdvertisementMs. Buell said in a text message on Saturday that withdrawing support from the senators who called for his resignation was “an option” she was considering.“In my gut they moved too fast,” she wrote, adding that Mr. Franken “was never given his chance to tell his side of the story.”“For me this is dangerous and wrong,” she added. “I am a big believer in helping more women into the political system but this has given me an opportunity to rethink of how I can best help my party.”Coming soon: A newsletter on women, gender and society.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She is a friend of Hillary Clinton’s and has spoken in support of Ms. Gillibrand, who led the charge in the Senate to urge Mr. Franken to leave.In her text, Ms. Buell said she did not know Mr. Franken personally but had met him a couple of times and was impressed by his work as a senator.“As for Gillibrand, unfortunately, I believe she miscalculated and has shot herself in the foot,” she added. “I have supported her for many years. Will I going forward? To be determined.”Ms. Buell, of San Francisco, was a founder of the clothing brand Esprit and has spent decades fund-raising and donating millions of dollars for liberal causes and candidates. Her Susie Tompkins Buell Foundation has awarded grants to organizations supporting climate change education, a free press and women’s rights.AdvertisementIn 2016, Ms. Buell contributed money to help a woman who had accused President Trump of harassment, she said, adding that the money was not used and was refunded. The New York Times reported last month that she was said to have donated $500,000 to support accusers, but Ms. Buell would not confirm the amount.Her comments about the senators who called for Mr. Franken’s resignation were reported by BuzzFeed.A spokesman for Ms. Gillibrand did not respond directly to Ms. Buell but pointed to the senator’s Facebook post on Dec. 6, in which she urged Mr. Franken to resign.“We have to rise to the occasion, and not shrink away from it, even when it’s hard, especially when it’s hard,” it said. “That is what this larger moment is about. So, I have spent a lot of time reflecting on Senator Franken’s behavior. Enough is enough. The women who have come forward are brave and I believe them.”Ms. Gillibrand added that the allegations against Mr. Franken were not equal to the harassment and assault accusations against the Hollywood filmmaker Harvey Weinstein, the Alabama politician Roy S. Moore and Mr. Trump. She has called for Mr. Trump to resign. In response, he wrote in a tweet that she was a lightweight “who would come to my office ‘begging’ for campaign contributions not so long ago.”A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Calls for Exit Of Franken Give Pause To Big Donor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By TIMOTHY WILLIAMSJAN. 16, 2018
BALTIMORE — What happened to 19-year-old Markel Scott last March is increasingly common here: Someone walked up to him on the street and shot him six times. Two months from his high school graduation, he died on the sidewalk, still wearing his book bag.“I grew up here and I’ve never seen crime like this,” his mother, Sharonda Rhodes, said recently. “These are not normal times. The guns are everywhere.”Mr. Scott attended a small school for older students who had dropped out and were trying to get their lives on track. But his resolve was not enough to shield him from the dangers of the streets. Seven students at Excel Academy have been murdered in 15 months, so much violence that an empty desk might mean a skipped class — or another permanent absence.Dealing with murder has become routine at Excel, with grief counselors called in with each fallen classmate. It has become difficult to focus on things like biology or math. With its shrinking student body, the school is a grim reflection of the difficulties facing Baltimore.AdvertisementLast year, the city had the highest murder rate in its history, and by far the highest among the nation’s 30 largest cities. That statistic has not been the only blow to Baltimore’s image. In recent days, children shivered in city schools with no heat and a hospital deposited a woman in socks and a medical gown at a bus stop on a winter night. Even Chicago, which has shared Baltimore’s notoriety for violence in recent years, saw homicides fall last year, while Baltimore’s numbers continue to rise. And nobody is sure what to do about it.AdvertisementAlthough the reasons for the high rate of violence are unclear, city officials are experimenting, they say, with almost anything that might whittle down the number everyone here seems to know by heart: 343, the number of homicide victims last year.The city is adding to a network of more than 750 high-definition cameras that zoom in and follow people as they walk down streets. Probationers and parolees are getting checked on more often. Recreation centers and libraries have expanded their hours.Mayor Catherine E. Pugh, who took office a year ago, convenes monthly meetings with community leaders from the city’s most troubled neighborhoods to discuss anti-violence strategies.City Hall has ordered every agency to undertake initiatives to reduce crime, like installing street lighting and clearing vacant lots. The mayor requires department heads to attend daily meetings where they discuss not only the previous day’s murders but the best way to board up abandoned buildings.It is unclear whether the strategies are working: There were nine killings during the first 12 days of 2018.The Police Department finds signs of hope where it can. The first weekend in January was a bright spot; there was only a single homicide. “Three days, one murder — that’s no accident,” Kevin Davis, the police commissioner, said at the next daily crime intervention meeting. “But what gets us is the Mondays and Tuesdays. Let’s do the best we can.”The police say the vast majority of homicides are retaliatory and committed by repeat offenders. Last year’s victims had an average of 11 arrests each. Almost half had been arrested in connection with violent crimes and nearly three-quarters on drug charges. The suspected killers had similar rap sheets, though they had been arrested fewer times on average than the victims.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some woes common to cities are worse in Baltimore. A port city, it has been a center of heroin use and distribution since at least the 1970s. “If I live in a neighborhood that has been festering with drugs for 20 years, I’m going to be a drug dealer or be on drugs or be a victim of one or the other,” said Tammatha Woodhouse, the principal of Excel Academy, the small alternative school that Mr. Scott attended.AdvertisementThe neighborhoods she is talking about have been starved of investment in schools, businesses — even sidewalk repair. The city has 16,000 abandoned homes. Its rate among children of lead poisoning, which often comes from peeling paint and has been linked to lack of impulse control and learning disabilities, is nearly three times higher than the national rate.“When we don’t address the real cause of poverty, we put young people in places and situations they wouldn’t have been otherwise,” Ms. Woodhouse said.The deaths of her students bear the hallmarks of a city awash in guns, with too few residents willing to tell the police what they know.Bryant Beverly, 18, was fatally shot after he was chased into a house after a dispute.Steven Jackson, 18, was killed in a double homicide that the police say was related to drug sales.Lavar Douglas, 18, was killed by a police officer at Coppin State University after Mr. Douglas shot at someone in a car.And of Mr. Scott, the police would say only that he may have been murdered in a disagreement about money.Mr. Scott had no criminal record, and it may never be known whether this was a current dispute, something from his past catching up with him, or even a simple misunderstanding. Six of the seven killings remain unsolved.AdvertisementThat is at least partly because of persistent mistrust of the police, a simmering problem laid bare in 2015 by the death of Freddie Gray, an African-American man who died while he was in police custody. Last year, six members of the department’s Gun Trace Task Force pleaded guilty in a scandal that involved stealing guns, money and drugs. The troubled department is operating under a federal consent decree after the government found a pattern of unconstitutional searches and police misconduct that targeted African-Americans.The police say that even when they have a suspect, they can be hampered by a code of silence that is not unique to Baltimore but has sometimes been traced back to a “Stop Snitching” DVD that circulated here in 2004.The lack of answers in her son’s death gnaws at Ms. Rhodes. “What did he know? What did he see? Why did someone shoot him so many times?” she asked. “My son only weighed 125 pounds, but someone shot him six times, twice in the face. Why?”At one point, a detective called and acknowledged that he had not had time to work on the case, she said, because “there were so many other bodies.”The 423 students at Excel have complicated, often traumatic pasts. Many of them live in group homes or foster care, and struggled in regular school. The school has four social workers, a psychologist and mental health counselors who talk frequently to students about how to avoid violence — and when it happens, how to cope.Excel recently opened what students call the “chill-out room,” where they can vent to a staff aide, listen to music in headphones, or just sit in silence.Déja Williams, 19, a student who knew the seven young men who were killed, had been particularly close to Markel Scott. Her path has included six foster homes, sporadic school attendance and frequent quarrels with Ms. Woodhouse, who has repeatedly convinced her not to drop out. She is scheduled to graduate this year.Of the killings, Ms. Williams said, “After the third time, it was like, ‘What’s going on? Why are so many people from our school getting murdered? Is someone going after Excel?’ But I think most of them were at the wrong place at the wrong time.”AdvertisementMs. Rhodes said her son did not carry a gun and was not involved in illegal activity. She made sure, she said, by periodically scanning his mobile phone and Facebook and Instagram accounts.He had dropped out of school when he was 17, around the time three of his friends were killed, she said. But once he started at Excel, he became a dedicated student.Less than a week before his death, Mr. Scott declared his new sense of purpose to his friends. “I might have my days when I’m slacking, but I will never quit again,” he wrote on Facebook. A few weeks before that, he announced: “Graduate in three months. Joining The Army & That’s My Way Out.”“His whole goal was, ‘I am going to graduate,’” Ms. Woodhouse recalled. “I remember him saying he didn’t want to be a statistic.”A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: In Baltimore, Anguish Over a Record-Breaking Homicide Rate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KAREN ZRAICK and LANCE BOOTHJAN. 14, 2018
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. “You have children watching. You have nations watching.”That was just one of the many statements issued by lawmakers after President Trump’s vulgar comments during an immigration meeting. It came from Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin. There was outrage from leaders around the globe, though others quietly agreed.The president, above on his way to Mar-a-Lago for the weekend, had met with members of Congress to discuss the fate of the Dreamers, young undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. illegally as children. An immigration deal remains up in the air. Here’s what Dreamers have to say about it.Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz.____2. The Hawaii Emergency Management Agency sent an alert to cellphones on Saturday urging people to take shelter because a ballistic missile was headed toward the state. But it was a false alarm.AdvertisementNot surprisingly, the alert caused widespread panic, coming at a time of heightened tensions with North Korea. Security experts called it a frightening warning of how a technical error could trigger an unintended conflict with North Korea.Advertisement____3. Mudslides in Montecito, Calif., wiped out entire blocks, killing at least 18 people with a brute force that shocked residents in areas that were hit hard by last month’s wildfires.The fires left the earth scorched, bare and vulnerable to sudden mudslides. Some faulted the authorities for not ordering a mandatory evacuation.“It’s apocalyptic,” one resident said. This video shows the devastation.____4. Emilie König, 33, spent the past five years living in Syria, where she became a prominent propagandist and recruiter for the Islamic State.Now she wants to return home — to France. The quandary her case poses is an increasingly common one for European countries: What should they do when citizens, who are also militants, want to come back?____5. At 54, Jeff Bezos of Amazon is the world’s richest person, with a net worth of more than $100 billion.He had stayed out of the limelight for years, but he’s building a public persona now. He bought The Washington Post in October 2013, and this past week, he and his wife announced a $33 million donation for scholarships to Dreamers.“He’s getting thanked at the Golden Globes and targeted by presidential tweet tantrums — not even Steve Jobs had that kind of pop-culture currency,” one observer noted.Advertisement____6. Facebook announced changes to its News Feed around the world. The company said it was trying to increase “meaningful interaction” by drawing attention to content from family and friends while de-emphasizing feeds from brands and publishers.But that could actually intensify the spread of fake news. We looked at a pilot program that Facebook ran last year in Slovakia, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Bolivia, Guatemala and Serbia. It doesn’t bode well. Above, Mark Zuckerberg.____7. Male models and assistants are accusing the fashion photographers Bruce Weber and Mario Testino of sexual misconduct.Both are huge names: Mr. Weber is best known for his racy advertisements for Calvin Klein and Abercrombie & Fitch, while Mr. Testino is a favorite of the British royal family and Vogue. (He shot Serena Williams for the magazine’s latest issue.)Above from left, Ryan Locke, Robyn Sinclair and Terron Wood. Each said he had experienced sexual harassment during his time modeling.Representatives for both photographers said they were dismayed and surprised by the allegations. Condé Nast said it would stop working with the two men, at least for now.____8. Uber once paid a hacker a $100,000 bounty over a security breach that exposed the data of 57 million riders and drivers. Now the episode, which was not disclosed for a year, is turning into a serious black eye for the company.It’s the subject of four lawsuits, with attorneys general opening inquiries into whether the company broke the law. And Uber’s response is fueling a wider debate about whether companies can scrupulously work with hackers at all.Advertisement____9. As the Pittsburgh Steelers begin their march to a potential seventh Super Bowl championship on Sunday afternoon, we caught up with the family of Mike Webster, the stalwart center of the team’s 1970s dynasty.Webster, who died in 2002, was the first N.F.L. player to receive a diagnosis of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., the degenerative brain disease linked to repeated head hits. His case led to hundreds of others filed by retired N.F.L. players.But Webster’s family was excluded from a settlement because he died too early to be eligible. They’re fighting the decision in court. Above, his son Garrett and ex-wife Pam.____10. “Saturday Night Live” welcomed back two alumni as guest stars in a sketch parodying the news show “Morning Joe.” Bill Murray appeared as the former Trump adviser Stephen Bannon, while Fred Armisen played Michael Wolff, the author of a new White House tell-all.Asked about inaccuracies in the book’s reporting, Mr. Armisen was unapologetic. “Look, you read it, right?” he said. “And you liked it, you had fun? Well, what’s the problem? You got the gist, so shut up. Even the stuff that’s not true, it’s true.”____11. Finally, a long weekend is a great time to daydream about a getaway.To aid in that effort, here’s our annual list of 52 places to inspire travelers.It includes popular spots like New Orleans and lesser-known gems like Gansu, in China, and São Tomé and Príncípe, on Africa’s West Coast. Above, Lake Chaiquenes in Chile.This year, for the first time, we are sending one writer to visit each and every place. We got 13,000 applications for the job. And now, please meet the lucky traveler: Jada Yuan.AdvertisementHave a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p.m. Eastern.Want to look back? You can browse past Morning and Evening Briefings.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Teenagers in The Times By                     
 SHANNON DOYNE
 
JAN. 5, 2018
Welcome to the December edition of Teenagers in The Times, a roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com. We publish a new edition on the first Friday of each month.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________EducationGraduate Students Escaped Tax Increases, but They Still Feel a Target on Their BacksHouse Republicans took aim at graduate students with provisions to tax their benefits. Those were dropped from the tax deal but they could return in a separate bill.AdvertisementA Lifeboat for Student Debtors“Federal lawmakers on both sides of the aisle are finally waking up. States should, too,” states this Editorial.AdvertisementFor Students Swindled by Predatory Colleges, Relief May Only Be PartialEducation Secretary Betsy DeVos said her department would start granting loan forgiveness for students bilked by for-profit colleges.Why Applying to College Is So ConfusingThis Opinion essay states, “Universities disagree on what qualifications make an ideal student.”The 8 Most Confusing Things About Fafsa“Don’t let the complicated financial aid process keep you from college,” states this Opinion essay writer.The Importance of Dumb Mistakes in College“Students deserve the chance to try out ideas without incurring the wrath of the entire internet,” states this Op-Ed writer.Two Colleges Bound by History Are Roiled by the #MeToo MomentSpelman and Morehouse, the historically black colleges in Atlanta, are among a number of schools nationwide fielding complaints about sexual misconduct.The Reddit Connection That Got Me Into College“After dropping out of rabbinical seminary, I was directionless. I spent a lot of time on the internet,” states this Opinion essay writer who went on to become a high school teacher.Harvard Agrees to Turn Over Records Amid Discrimination InquiryThe university agreed to turn over confidential documents to the Justice Department, which is investigating whether it has discriminated against Asian-American applicants.AdvertisementHow Harvard’s Hypocrisy Could Hurt Your Union“When it comes to labor rights, universities have been more than willing to partner with the forces they condemn,” states this Opinion essay, written by students at Harvard Law School.No Wild Parties, No Pledging as Universities Crack Down on Fraternity ExcessesAmid worries about hazing, sexual assault and a spate of deaths, universities are imposing campuswide restrictions on fraternities and sororities.Roy Moore Drowns Us Out“He is a symbol of the way injustices fester and grow,” states the University of Alabama sophomore who wrote this Opinion essay.It’s Pretty Crazy to Be a Young Woman in Roy Moore’s Alabama“I’m shocked to see friends and relatives support a credibly accused sexual predator, all because he’s a Republican,” states the writer of this Opinion essay, a senior at Auburn University.How Effective Is Your School District? A New Measure Shows Where Students Learn the MostSome poorer districts do more for their grade-schoolers than some wealthier ones do.Betsy DeVos Allies See New Obstacle to School Choice Efforts: TrumpFor all her tough talk, the education secretary has made little progress on priorities like school vouchers and charter schools. Allies blame the storms around the president.Now on Oracle’s Campus, a $43 Million Public High SchoolPutting a publicly funded charter school on the campus of a Silicon Valley giant is a new twist on the evolving relationship between big tech companies and schools.Too Many Children in California Can’t Read, Lawsuit ClaimsParents and teachers say the state failed to give students at low-performing schools the resources they need to learn to read and write.AdvertisementCan Kindness Be Taught?A program prompted by a challenge from the Dalai Lama is bringing kindness training to the classroom. Research suggests it helps.DeVos Delays Rule on Racial Disparities in Special EducationThe Education Department delayed an Obama-era regulation pressing school districts to address the disproportionate number of minorities in special education.Home From Harvard, Back in the Holiday Hot Seat“I’m the daughter of African immigrants, so my college experience is everyone’s business,” says the Harvard junior who wrote this Opinion essay.In Sex Abuse Cases, an Expiration Date Is Often AttachedAs prep schools increasingly confront past sexual misconduct, they often use laws limiting when a lawsuit can be filed to avoid paying victims.School Sex-Abuse Report Shows Difficulty of Substantiating ClaimsThe KIPP charter school network hired investigators to look into allegations against two teachers, but they were unable to reach conclusions.This Coffee Shop Won’t Live ForeverMurphy’s Beans n’ Dreams gives Midtown students practical sales experience._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessA Target of Bullies Perseveres to Earn a ‘Prize’: His DiplomaIn high school, Derrick Cox endured threats and harassment. As a young adult, he is hoping to make a name for himself to justify the years of anguish.AdvertisementTo the Chicago Police, Any Black Kid Is in a Gang“My son is a black teenager, so he could easily end up in the dubious database of supposed gang members,” states this Opinion essay writer.11-Year-Old Has Spent Her Life in Jail, a Serial Killer as a CellmateMeena, an Afghan girl born behind bars, has never been outside, and her convicted mother can keep her until she is 18. She is not the only child there, either.Some Afghan Children Find an Alternative to Jail — for NowOrphanages for Afghan children of jailed mothers meet part of the need, but funding cuts threaten their future and many others stay in prison.Youths Face Off Over Catalan IndependenceWith tens of thousands of young people preparing to vote, we brought together first-time voters on different sides of the separatist debate and gave them questions to ask each other.She Wants Independence. In Egypt, That Can Be Dangerous.Esraa is looking to rent an apartment with her friends. In Egypt, where personal freedom can be routinely compromised in the name of religion, family and country, that makes her a rebel. Like many in her generation, she is gasping for change. Can she win?Bars on the Windows, Laughter Between the LinesAn Italian nonprofit organizes soccer matches inside the country’s prisons in an effort to foster healthy relationships between inmates and their children.After Court Victory, Detained Teenage Immigrants Are Allowed to Obtain AbortionsThe Trump administration had tried to block two young immigrants from ending their pregnancies, but it relented after a judge ruled for the women this week.The Opioid Plague’s Youngest Victims: Children in Foster CareChildren are pouring into the beleaguered child welfare system.AdvertisementBrock Turner Is Appealing His Sexual Assault ConvictionThe former Stanford student, who served three months of a six-month sentence after being convicted of felony sexual assault, is seeking a retrial.A Nation Answers a Sobbing Boy’s Plea: ‘Why Do They Bully?’After his mother shared a video of him, Keaton Jones received a flood of support from football players, actors and thousands of other well-wishers.A Grieving Farmer, a Torn Couple, a Prom King: Meet the People Who Stuck With Us in 2017We followed up with subjects whose stories stuck with us this year._________Science, Health, Technology and SportsIn Protests of Net Neutrality Repeal, Teenage Voices Stood OutYoung people who have grown up knowing only an open internet organized rallies, streamed the F.C.C. vote in class — and say they plan to keep fighting.New Facebook App for Children Ignites Debate Among FamiliesSome parents welcomed Messenger Kids, the tech giant’s first major foray into connecting children under 13 to its services, but others worried about social media’s deeper intrusion.When the Body-Shaming Bully on Social Media Is MomA reader who is obese asks how to confront her most hurtful — and most familiar — critic.The Best Toys That Teach Kids How to CodeThere are dozens of coding toys on the market. Here are 10 of the best, and how our test kids responded.AdvertisementFacebook Conceded It Might Make You Feel Bad. Here’s How to Interpret That.In a remarkable blog post, Facebook cited research showing that “passively consuming” social media made people feel worse. It also said it was trying to fix the problem.Meet ‘Supergirl,’ the World’s Strongest TeenagerNaomi Kutin, 16, is an Orthodox Jewish girl from New Jersey with a knack for setting powerlifting records.After 312 Straight Losses, Juvenile Court’s Girls Basketball Team PrevailsCarroll Academy, a day school in Huntington, Tenn., won, 29-27, in double overtime to end the country’s longest high school losing streak.Grief Throws a Young Point Guard Off Her GameMakaylah Barber, 16, has faced homelessness and expulsion. After her mother died, her grades worsened, making her ineligible to play basketball this season.Nathan Chen Has Taken the Quad to a New Level. Is It Good for Figure Skating?Chen, the 18-year-old American sensation, is the first to complete the difficult jump five times in a four-and-a-half-minute routine, but some worry it is dulling the sport.For England’s Next Generation, Shine of Youth Trophies Only Carries So FarHalfway through the league season, a talented crop of young English players is finding that age-group success doesn’t necessarily translate to Premier League minutes.A Hockey League in the U.S. Attracts Europeans With an Eye on CollegeThe number of Europeans in the United States Hockey League is rising because of its path to opportunities in both the N.H.L. and the N.C.A.A._________Arts, Media and CultureAfter-School SpecialAndre Wagner captured the brief window when kids run New York.Advertisement‘Where My Activists At?’ Inside the First Teen Vogue SummitWho needs a fusty old print magazine when you have Elaine Welteroth and Hillary Clinton in the flesh — am I right, ladies?6 Holiday Toy Crazes and Why They Captivated Kids (and Parents)Barbie. The hula hoop. The Rubik’s Cube. Cabbage Patch Kids. Every generation had its must-have toys. Here are some of the stories behind them.A Boy, His Mother and the Human Being Behind the CameraOver the five years that Leslye Davis followed Drew — starting when he was 14 and she was in journalism school — their lives became deeply intertwined.Why I Left Iran to Play Chess in America“My old team cared more about the scarf covering my hair than the brain under it,” writes the second Iranian woman to become a chess international master in this Opinion essay._________We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ANDREW E. KRAMERJAN. 5, 2018
KIEV, Ukraine — A Georgian court on Friday sentenced former President Mikheil Saakashvili to three years in prison for abusing his pardon powers while serving as president. Mr. Saakashvili, who is now in Ukraine, was sentenced in absentia.Mr. Saakashvili’s legal woes have been piling up in both his adopted country, Ukraine, and his homeland, Georgia, but the ruling is the first time he has been sentenced to prison.In a Facebook post on Friday, he called the ruling, and the flurry of cases against him more broadly, a response to his efforts to fight corruption and “oligarchs” in both countries.A gregarious populist and an avowed enemy of Russian influence in former Soviet states, Mr. Saakashvili has cast himself as a fighter for good government and pluralistic democracy, and he has said that the criminal cases against him are pushback from an entrenched, corrupt elite. Detractors call him a showboating has-been.AdvertisementGeorgian authorities accuse him of abusing his power, and Ukraine has stripped him of his citizenship for making false statements on a form.AdvertisementAfter stepping down as president in 2013, and a brief retirement in Brooklyn, Mr. Saakashvili supported the Ukrainian revolution the following year. Petro O. Poroshenko, who became Ukraine’s president after the ouster of Viktor F. Yanukovych, rewarded him with citizenship and a position as regional governor in Odessa.That relationship soured, though, after Mr. Saakashvili accused Ukrainian cabinet ministers and Mr. Poroshenko of corruption. While the Georgian government has sought his extradition for years, his troubles in Ukraine make that prospect more likely.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the Georgian court on Friday, Mr. Saakashvili was convicted of pardoning four police officers in 2008 without going through the presidential commission on pardons, Civil.ge, a Georgian news portal, reported.The pardons, prosecutors contended, were part of a scheme to cover up evidence in the investigation of the murder of a Georgian banker, Sandro Girgvliani.In his statement, Mr. Saakashvili called the ruling ridiculous and orchestrated by a political enemy, Bidzina Ivanishvili, a billionaire and a former prime minister who has had business interests in Russia. Now, Mr. Saakashvili wrote, Mr. Ivanishvili and President Poroshenko are coordinating the legal actions against him in Ukraine and Georgia.“To judge a president for using his right to pardon, which I applied to 133 former military service personnel and which is not limited in any way, testifies to the completely political character of this process,” he wrote. “This ‘decision,’ as well as the parallel legal process in Kiev, clearly demonstrates that the oligarchic governments in both Ukraine and Georgia are working — in a synchronized and completely coordinated fashion with each other — against me.”Mr. Saakashvili stepped down in Georgia after serving the constitutional limit of two terms, an exception in the former Soviet states where authoritarian leaders have bent the rules to stay on for decades.But the government that succeeded him quickly set about prosecuting him. Along with the pardon case, the authorities in Georgia also accuse Mr. Saakashvili of repressing a protest and taking over a television station in 2007, of orchestrating an attack on an opposition politician and of wasting budget funds.A version of this article appears in print on January 6, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Georgia  Sentences Ex-Leader In Absentia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THOMAS ERDBRINKJAN. 4, 2018
TEHRAN — Members of Iran’s ruling establishment took turns on Thursday assigning blame for what they regard as an embarrassing outbreak of protests in more than 80 cities across the country.Iran’s chief prosecutor elaborated on the government’s claims that the United States and other foreign enemies were responsible for stirring up trouble. The United States, Israel and Saudi Arabia planned the “riots” to “subvert the Iranian government,” the prosecutor, Mohammad Jafar Montazeri, said on state television.“The U.S., the Zionist regime and the Al Sauds were the three sides of this subversive plan, and Saudi Arabia committed to provide money for it,” Mr. Montazeri said.Mr. Montazeri asserted that Michael D’Andrea, a C.I.A. officer who runs Iran operations, was a “main designer” of the protests and that the C.I.A. hoped to turn the protest into an “armed” revolt by mid-February, the anniversary of the country’s 1979 Islamic revolution.AdvertisementThe Trump administration has denied having any involvement in the protests, and the C.I.A. declined to comment. But a former intelligence official who was granted anonymity to discuss Mr. D’Andrea’s thinking said the operative did not believe the United States could do anything to bring about regime change in Iran.AdvertisementIran did not provide evidence for its accusation, which evoked memories of the C.I.A.’s role in a 1953 coup that overthrew the democratically elected government of Mohammed Mossadegh.Iran’s mission to the United Nations also sent a letter to the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday complaining about “acts of intervention” by the administration, citing President Trump’s Twitter posts in support of the protests.The Islamic State also played a role, Mr. Montazeri said, without explaining precisely how. He also called on clerics in the holy city of Qum to support the judiciary in a permanent ban on the messaging app Telegram, now closed in Iran.Government officials also blamed internal enemies for instigating the protests, with the leader of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps seeming to imply that a former hard-line president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, was involved.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Whatever Mr. Ahmadinejad’s role, Iran’s reformist faction has accused hard-liners in the city of Mashhad of organizing the first protests to create political problems for Iran’s moderate president, Hassan Rouhani. And hard-liners have, in turn, accused Mr. Rouhani of leaking secret parts of his proposed budget, including details of the country’s religious institutes, in a calculated move to turn ordinary people against religious institutions.“They all blame each other,” said Nader Karimi Joni, a reformist journalist. “What else can they do?”The death toll from the clashes rose to at least 21, and in the central province of Esfahan, a police officer was reported killed.The State Department said on Thursday: “We condemn in the strongest possible terms the deaths to date and the arrests of at least one thousand Iranians,” it said, adding, “To the regime’s victims, we say: You will not be forgotten.”AdvertisementUnrelated to the protests, the Treasury Department imposed sanctions on five Iranian entities over their involvement in developing ballistic missiles, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said additional sanctions “targeting human rights abuses are coming.”The protests, meanwhile, seemed to be winding down, though there is no sure way to tell. Fewer videos of what seemed to be demonstrations appeared on social media on Thursday. But many sites have been blocked, possibly obscuring the true extent of the protests.Iran’s government routinely filters websites and apps it deems inappropriate or dangerous, and Twitter and Facebook have been blocked since the 2009 antigovernment protests. The prosecutor said that about a million pages on social media had been banned by the authorities, but complained that the pages “mushroom under new names and colors despite more than 15,000 of them being blocked every week.”Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Iran Blames Large Cabal of Culprits for Protests.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive momentOur critics and reporters offer a glimpse of what’s moved and delighted them on YouTube. Read the rest of our classical music coverage here.At 6 minutes 48 secondsThe New York Philharmonic’s contemporary-music series, Contact!, presented works by a few composers I already admired (including Sarah Kirkland Snider and Anna Thorvaldsdottir) this week. Fernanda Aoki Navarro, however, was new to me. When introducing her intriguing 2012 piece “Parthenogenesis,” she described an interest in letting complex material loose, right from the outset of a piece. Later, when searching online for more of her work, I came across a 2014 Talea Ensemble performance of “Otherness.” Its opening underlines the composer’s taste for in media res introductions. But its finale fosters a more delirious swirl, as percussive writing for strings slams against quickly snaking figures for bass clarinet, bass flute and piano. SETH COLTER WALLSRead our review of the Contact! program.AT 3 MINUTES 28 SECONDSThe soprano Ailyn Pérez is starring as the Countess in Mozart’s “Le Nozze di Figaro” at the Metropolitan Opera. In a Facebook Live concert, she sang the aria “Dove sono,” which at Wednesday’s performance of the opera was greeted with cheers and calls for an encore. The aria is sobering — a reminder that behind the opera’s comedy is a woman who loved and married a man she didn’t know was a lecherous boor. In this recital video from 2009, Ms. Pérez doesn’t yet have her current mastery of the role, but you can hear the heartbreak in how mournfully she sings the return of the opening lines: “Where have they gone, the beautiful moments of sweetness and pleasure?” JOSHUA BARONEWatch Ailyn Pérez on Facebook Live with the soprano Nadine Sierra.AT 35 SECONDSThe splendid a cappella octet Roomful of Teeth ended a compelling evening of vocal gymnastics with, as encore, a relatively simple song, Alev Lenz’s “Fall Into Me,” in a haunting version featuring the soprano Martha Cluver. Ms. Cluver caught much of the dusky atmosphere conjured by Ms. Lenz herself in this clip, and added smoky touches of her own, with fine support from the rest of the ensemble. For me, at least, a happy discovery. JAMES R. OESTREICHAT 12 MINUTES 45 SECONDSCaroline Shaw’s “Partita for 8 Voices,” which at age 30 made her the youngest winner of the Pulitzer Prize, came to Zankel Hall on Thursday in a joyful performance by her a cappella ensemble, Roomful of Teeth. The piece is a showcase of the group’s vocal acrobatics and ethnomusicological fascinations, such as the Inuit throat singing that opens the rhapsodic Courante. In that movement, the melody of the folk hymn “The Shining Shore” appears as a musical non sequitur. Ms. Shaw, who grew up singing in community choirs, told me in an interview last fall that hymns are near and dear to her, and in her mind as she composes. Her respect for “The Shining Shore” is on full display when its melody first enters the “Partita” as pure, heavenly and unabashedly beautiful. JOSHUA BARONEat 1 minute 26 secondsWhile the Boston Symphony’s administrators try to deal with the profoundly troubling revelations about its association with conductors accused of sexual misconduct, its players continue to excel. Under the twinkle-toed leadership of François-Xavier Roth, their most recent program included a vigorous Beethoven Fifth and some exceedingly pleasant Mozart, with the sensitive and sublime Benjamin Grosvenor at the piano. The real treat, though, was Mr. Roth’s intelligent way of putting the Beethoven in the context of a contemporary, Étienne Méhul, a French composer who was on rather better terms with Napoleon than dear Ludwig. Méhul’s overture to “Les Amazones,” which had its premiere in front of the emperor in 1811, sneakily hides a second introduction that’s sung out on the cellos, and has an endearing sense of humor. DAVID ALLENat 58 seconds“Tonight I’m wearing a dress,” the mezzo-soprano Isabel Leonard said at the Park Avenue Armory during a recent recital. She isn’t always: The previous night, singing Cherubino — a signature role — in “Le Nozze di Figaro” at the Met, she dons a soldier’s uniform. Here she is singing “Voi che sapete” in a winning 2016 performance at the Met. I love the way she conveys the fidgety nervousness of an adolescent boy about to sing a love song he wrote to the countess he pines over. At the Armory, singing Bernstein songs, Ms. Leonard again played with gender fluidity, bringing affecting freshness to “Something’s Coming” and “Maria,” two songs intended for Tony in “West Side Story.” ANTHONY TOMMASINIat 55 secondsOn Thursday the dynamic conductor Susanna Malkki led the New York Philharmonic in “Helix,” a teeming de facto overture by the orchestra’s composer in residence, Esa-Pekka Salonen. Mr. Salonen has also written some knockout piano pieces. I’ll never forget hearing the New York debut of the brilliant Finnish pianist Juho Pohjonen in 2004, when he performed Mr. Salonen’s staggeringly difficult, wildly inventive “Dichotomie.” Here’s a stunning, tantalizing excerpt from a fearless performance by the pianist Aura Go at the Helsinki Music Center. Catch the extended passage full of crazed glissandos, for which the pianist repeatedly uses a cloth to literally sweep the keyboard. ANTHONY TOMMASINIat 2 minutes 7 secondsThe descending figures in Paganini’s Caprice No. 17 have always reminded the violinist Augustin Hadelich of a cat’s meow. So he has made the caprice into a most unusual animated cat video — think “The Aristocats” meets “Intermezzo” — to accompany his new album, “Paganini: 24 Caprices.” And not to worry: Mr. Hadelich offered an assurance, via email, that he does not use catgut. “No — nobody uses catgut anymore (gut strings these days are not made out of catgut),” he wrote. “But actually, my strings are synthetic (Evah Pirazzi brand) and the E string is metal (Pirastro Gold Wondertone brand).” MICHAEL COOPERAdvertisement

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
JAN. 5, 2018
Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Download the NYT Cooking app here.Good morning. “Pavement slipp’ry, people sneezing,” Mary Darby Robinson wrote of London in “January, 1795,”Lords in ermine, beggars freezing; Titled gluttons dainties carving, Genius in a garret starving.Sounds just like New York City in January 2018! But there are geniuses in every quarter of the globe, and, if you can locate one or two in your town this weekend, it would be a kind and good thing to do to cook for them, to provide a home-cooked meal to those who don’t see them much, for reasons of thrift, skill or time.What to cook? I like Laurie Colwin’s recipe for baked mustard chicken for this sort of meal, along with a bowl of baked rice and, if you want to make it a Colwin-themed meal, one more of her creamed spinach with jalapeños. Serve with cold caramelized citrus for dessert and during dinner ask questions — but not too many! — about the Work. Send all leftovers home with your guests.AdvertisementThat’s one idea for a weekend in the kitchen, anyway. Others may prefer to hold their families tight, eat a giant kalpudding with lingonberry sauce, then retreat to watch some Silly Symphonies before cracking open “I Want to Show You More,” a collection of short stories by Jamie Quatro that Dwight Garner hyped in his recent, if less enthusiastic, review of Ms. Quatro’s new novel, “Fire Sermon.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Seriously, that would be a good Saturday night.I’d like to make a rich Irish stew this weekend. Also a wild salmon fillet anointed with smoked salmon butter. And I think at long last that it’s time to follow Julia Moskin’s lead and bake Japanese milk bread. I could serve it for breakfast, cut thick and toasted lightly and slathered in butter and jam. Or I could make it part of dinner, playing brioche to a big bowl of the chicken liver pâté that Javier Huerta makes at Fort Defiance in Brooklyn. (Follow that starter with quinoa salad with Swiss chard and goat cheese.)AdvertisementThen, to round out the weekend, I’m thinking chicken fried steak. I like C.F.S. with queso gravy, but, if that’s too much for you, try building a roux out of a few tablespoons of the frying oil and an equal amount of flour, then hitting the result with chicken stock, some light cream and a terrifying amount of ground black pepper. This is a gravy that loves mashed potatoes the way Elvis Costello loves that woman he sings about in “I Want You.”There are thousands and thousands more recipes at NYT Cooking. (Yes, we can help you with that electric pressure cooker you got over the holidays.) You will, however, need a subscription to access them. So if you haven’t already, get one today!We are standing by to help if anything goes wrong along the way, either with a particular recipe or with the technology we use to power the site. Simply write cookingcare@nytimes.com and someone bright will get back to you, promise.Now, please read this excerpt The New Yorker published of Yemisi Aribisala’s book, “Longthroat Memoirs: Soups, Sex and Nigerian Taste Buds.” Then go buy the book. You won’t be sorry.See what you think of this Silvia Killingsworth bit on forms of coffee, in The Awl.And then head up to northern Minnesota with Amy Thielen in Saveur, for a look into the lives and kitchens of the people in the “Finnish triangle.” Finnish whipped porridge with yogurt cream? Yes, please. Have a great weekend.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By VIVIAN YEE, CAITLIN DICKERSON and SHERYL GAY STOLBERGJAN. 10, 2018
With jitters and with prayers, with countdown clocks in their heads and their immigration lawyers on speed-dial, hundreds of thousands of young immigrants have spent all fall and winter watching President Trump and congressional leaders negotiate their fate, every fleck of news a tantalizing omen.“It’s like watching a telenovela: Every day is different,” said Francis Madi, 28, who was brought to the United States from Venezuela in 2003 and now lives on Long Island. “Now we’re just going to the stressful part of the telenovela where you wonder what will happen to the protagonist.”The protagonist, in this case, happens to be her.Perhaps more than any other single group of people in the country, the Dreamers, as these young immigrants are known, have had their lives shaped directly by the mood swings of national politics.But in the four months since the Trump administration announced that it would shut down Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, the program that protects 800,000 young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children, the goings-on in Washington have felt especially personal. While Congress engages in a high-stakes staring contest over a substitute program, immigrants have already begun losing their protections, exposing them to deportation.Then came Tuesday afternoon, when the glimmers of a bipartisan deal emerged. And a little later on Tuesday, when Mr. Trump appeared ready to throw the entire immigration-reform debate open again. And then late Tuesday night, which brought news of a startling court ruling that threatened to muddle matters yet again. And Wednesday morning, when it was difficult to know how to feel at all.AdvertisementHafsa Mamun, 18, spends about 30 minutes a night scrolling through news stories about the negotiations after she gets home from classes at Hunter College in Manhattan, where she is a freshman. Born in Malawi to Indian parents and brought to the United States as a 5-year-old, Ms. Mamun’s protected status expires in 2019. She said she had not made any plans about the future because things were so uncertain.Advertisement“It’s like you’re on edge constantly,” she said. “One day you have hope that it might go through, and then something else comes up.”An agreement did seem to be staggering closer on Tuesday, though how much closer seemed impossible for even the negotiators to predict amid the welter of bewildering signals from Mr. Trump. After a year of holding a hard line on immigration, the president suggested in a meeting with congressional leaders that he supported not only a deal to protect the Dreamers but also a comprehensive immigration reform package, raising the possibility that the DACA recipients’ security could hinge on a much messier set of compromises.Republicans, meanwhile, were still pushing to tie any benefits for the young immigrants to curbs on family-based legal immigration, border security and other conservative priorities that Democrats and immigration advocates have frowned upon.About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.“We’re being held hostage as a bargaining chip,” said Rafael Robles, 26, a DACA recipient in Chicago who owns an architecture, design and real estate development firm. “I’m not advocating for the Dream Act at the expense of everyone else.”On Tuesday night, a federal judge in San Francisco ruled that the Trump administration had ended the program improperly and ordered it restarted. Though immigration advocates welcomed the ruling, they cautioned that they expected it to be challenged, if not overturned, and warned that a court order was no substitute for an act of Congress.It was around 5 a.m. in Fall River, Mass., when Hellosa Silva, 18, a high school senior who came to the United States from Brazil when she was an infant, was jolted awake by a news alert on her cellphone informing her of the judge’s decision.“I read it and got super excited,” she said.Immigration lawyers were deluged on Wednesday morning with clients eager to take advantage of the court-ordered reinstatement. Jeremy McKinney, an immigration lawyer in North Carolina whose firm has more than 1,000 clients with DACA, said he posted the court ruling on the firm’s Facebook page late Tuesday, only for his phones to blow up in the morning.AdvertisementMr. McKinney said that he had advised his clients against filing renewal paperwork because there was no guarantee that the administration would approve any new applications, even if it did not win on appeal, and he did not feel comfortable accepting legal fees for what would likely be a futile effort.It was difficult news to break to clients who are emotionally exhausted.“We certainly have been wearing our counselor hats here at the law firm,” he said. “We do our best to talk them through it, to kind of decrease their anxiety levels, but frankly, it’s not working.”Ramiro Luna was working late on Tuesday in Dallas when he saw the news about the judge’s ruling on Facebook. It did little to relieve the tension he felt every time he thought about his DACA status — which was to say, every time he looked at the countdown clock on his iPhone that tells him how many days he has left before it expires.On Wednesday, the clock stood at 280 days.“Every single day,” he said, “I feel like I have one day left to consider myself safe here.”Mr. Luna, 33, came to the United States from Mexico with his father at the age of 7. Now studying psychology at the University of North Texas at Dallas, he works as the campaign manager for State Representative Victoria Neave, a Dallas Democrat.He said he had grown accustomed to living with chaos and uncertainty. For one thing, he might lose his work permit before ballots are cast in the election he is working on.DACA has allowed its recipients to get jobs, go to college, obtain driver’s licenses and open 401(k)s. All of those opportunities are now at risk.“We’re at the mercy of the administration. We’re at the mercy of court rulings,” Mr. Luna said. “Right now I’m already thinking: What kind of remedial job am I going to be able to do without documentation?”AdvertisementFor Missael Garcia, 27, the question was no longer theoretical. The work permit he obtained through DACA has already expired, forcing him to give up his job as a mentor with the Baltimore city schools system. Now he works as a restaurant cook, paid off the books in cash, he said.On Wednesday, unwilling to leave matters to a judge, he was in Washington, knocking on lawmakers’ doors with a Baltimore-based advocacy group, Casa in Action.“I feel like this government says things that get people excited and then gets their hopes up,” he said, “and at the end of the day it’s like a stab in the back.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Knocking on doors, calling members of Congress, spreading the word on social media: Activism was the only hope most DACA recipients had of influencing a process that had played out in front of millions, on television and in news outlets across the country, yet would ultimately come down to the inclinations of a few.Most immigration activists believe their best chance at a deal for the Dreamers is now, when Democrats can threaten to withhold support for a spending bill Congress would need to pass to prevent the government from shutting down on Jan. 19.More than 100 DACA recipients have been traipsing throughout the Capitol in Washington for the past two days, telling their stories to lawmakers in an urgent effort to persuade them to enshrine the program into law.One of them was Hector Rivera Suarez, 20, the student body president at Guilford College, in Greensboro, N.C., whose DACA status expires Jan. 21.“Now I feel like I don’t have control over my own future anymore,” he said. “I had all these plans, but now it’s up to someone else to make those decisions for me.”Liz Robbins contributed reporting from New York, and Manny Fernandez from Houston.A version of this article appears in print on January 11, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Head-Spinning Months as ‘Dreamers’ Await Fate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
JAN. 1, 2018
Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Download the NYT Cooking app here.Good morning. Happy New Year! How are you? Hope you’re not feeling woozy and dry-mouthed and sad, with Ian Fleming’s great line from “Moonraker” echoing in your head: “Champagne and Benzedrine! Never again.” It’s time to start over, time for new chances. It’s time to cook better, more often, and with more joy in your heart. (Really it is. You do what I’m saying, and the food becomes more delicious, and the people you serve are happier. It’s weird.)So this is the year to learn to make pasta, perhaps. This is the year to learn to make pizza, I’m fairly sure. And this is the day, absolutely, to make black-eyed peas, so as to ensure your prosperity throughout 2018, whatever happened to you when you messed around with the Upshot’s “Tax Bill Calculator,” in The Times. I like my peas with a smoked ham hock and plenty of kale, but, if you’ve got the time or a pressure cooker, you might try it with a pig trotter, which will give the beans a silky lip-sticking quality that will lead you, eventually, to make a vat of trotter gear to add to all sorts of meals.To go with it: Try this brown-butter cornbread, from Melissa Clark. Or this more cakelike cornbread that Chris Schlesinger used to serve at the East Coast Grill in Cambridge, Mass.AdvertisementThat’s dinner for you. Right now, though, you may be thinking about brunch. We’ve collected a whole bunch of recipes you could knock off at midday on a national holiday, with a minimum of fuss. I like the idea of citrus salad with prosecco to start, with eggs Benedict to follow, and then an afternoon of “The Punisher” on Netflix, interspersed with naps.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Dream about dinners you’ll make early in 2018. Maybe this sake-steamed chicken with ginger and scallions? Or a big platter of pork cutlets Parm? I love shrimp and grits for dinner. (I love Alexander Smalls’s recipe for smothered shrimp in crab-meat gravy even more!) You could make pan-roasted cauliflower some evening soon. And you’ll find a win in this collection of pasta dishes suitable for making in what we’re calling, euphemistically, “sweater weather.” (It’s 9 degrees outside as I type.)AdvertisementMany more recipes than you could possibly cook in 2018 are at NYT Cooking. Sign up for a subscription there, if you haven’t already, so that you can access them. (Thanks!) And do reach out if anything awry while you’re on the site or apps, or while cooking the recipes. We’re at cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’re here to serve.Now, a long, long way from turmeric and roasted capon, you should read this shocking story about mental health and criminal justice in Mississippi, by Sarah Smith in ProPublica. The world is a dark and difficult place, no matter how much we cook.But amazing people live on it, as the annual “The Lives They Lived” issue of The New York Times Magazine proves each year. Spend some time with that, please.And then listen to Rhiannon Giddens, “Come Love Come.” That can be your 2018 soundtrack. See you on Wednesday.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misidentified the Ian Fleming novel in which the line “Champagne and Benzedrine! Never again.” appears. It is in “Moonraker,” not “Casino Royale.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
JAN. 8, 2018
Good morning on this thawing Monday.Alexa du Pont Bell arrived in New York City in 2000 in a seemingly financially secure position for a 22-year-old: She had a degree from Harvard and a position as an investment banker.But while she spent her days thinking about complex issues like fund-raising and equity, her personal finances began to fray. She missed payments on her credit card, was threatened with collections, and was spending a lot on rent, college loans and eating out.“Where would I have learned personal finance?” she said. “Unless you get it from your family, there’s no time where a teacher sits down and explains very basic financial principles,” she said.After Ms. Bell got her own finances sorted out, she helped found Cents Ability, a nonprofit that teaches financial literacy to thousands of high school students across New York City. We recently sat down with Ms. Bell as part of our series about the people and inspirations behind local philanthropies.AdvertisementAs a recent college graduate in New York City, Ms. Bell learned that she wasn’t the only one among her peers who struggled to manage her finances. She often spoke with a college friend, John Moore, whose investment banking roommates also had trouble sticking to a budget or paying off debt on time. They figured that if bankers were having problems with home finances, regular New Yorkers might be as well.AdvertisementIn 2002, the two hashed out a basic curriculum and started teaching it to teenagers at community centers and workshops. Friends and acquaintances, many of them from the financial services sector, volunteered to help.“We connected Wall Street with Main Street,” said Mr. Moore.Cents Ability was officially formed in 2004, and the organization began sending volunteers into the city’s public schools with the help of New York Cares.In the classroom, Ms. Bell wasn’t shocked that most students didn’t know anything about personal finance — “they were still using piggy banks,” she said — but she was surprised by the enthusiasm of the students, many of whom were just starting their first jobs.“Once you start earning money, it’s one of the most exciting things that kids want to talk about,” she said.Today, Cents Ability’s weeklong course offers the basics on budgeting, credit scores, saving and investing, among other topics. Last year, around 300 volunteers offered classes to nearly 3,000 students across New York.In 2018, as outstanding credit card debt soars above a record high of $1 trillion in the U.S. and cashless businesses become even more normal, their mission feels more relevant than ever, Ms. Bell said.“It’s like feeding or clothing people,” she said. “It’s a necessity. If you can mange your money, then you can feed and clothe and shelter yourself for another day.”AdvertisementHere’s what else is happening:The Ice Age of 2018 is over.The cold spell that settled over North America, delivering record-breaking temperatures and a “bomb cyclone,” has retreated from New York.You may remove one layer of long johns: Today’s high is a comparatively mild 33 degrees, but Tuesday’s will be closer to 42.• Stranded passengers at Kennedy Airport faced more misery when a water main break disrupted flight schedules. [New York Times]• The incoming president of the city’s public hospital network wants to focus less on hospitalized care and more on primary care, similar to initiatives carried out nationwide. [New York Times]• Funeral services will be held for victims of the Bronx fire that took place late last month. [New York Times]• Fraternity members will be sentenced in the 2013 hazing death of a Baruch College freshman. [New York Times]• As FEMA revises New York City’s flood maps to account for climate change, deciding who is at risk will be a battle with millions of dollars at stake. [New York Times]• Immigrant defendants who are freed on bail are being improperly arrested and held at immigration detention facilities, a judge says. [New York Times]Advertisement• Senator Chuck Schumer urged the president to sign a bill aimed at stopping the flow of fentanyl into JFK using high-tech detection machines. [New York Post]• The frequent disappearances of a Bronx woman’s daughter put a strain on her family’s finances and the amount of time she has for her other children. Now she has a vision of a better future. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Genius of Shoes”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• An exhibition on the prehistory of Staten Island, “Occupied Sites,” at the Conference House Park Visitor Center in Staten Island. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. [Free]• An evening of classical music performed by Juilliard students, part of “ChamberFest” at The Juilliard School on the Upper West Side. 4:30 p.m. [Free]• Explore the history of The Public Theater through an evening of readings, speeches and footage of its founder, Joseph Papp, at The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts on the Upper West Side. 6 p.m. [Free, reservation required]• Sketch live models while listening to music at Flushing Town Hall in Queens. 7 p.m. [$16]• Nets host Raptors, 7:30 p.m. (YES).• Alternate-side parking remains suspended through Wednesday for snow operations.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.The New York Times and PBS have started a book club, and everyone’s invited.Every month The Times and PBS will pick a different book — history, fiction, memoir and more — and ask readers to follow along.AdvertisementWe’ll offer discussion questions, reviews, insight from the author, an inside look at how the book was written, and other exclusive materials to help deepen your reading and spark conversations.At the end of the month, Jeffrey Brown, the PBS NewsHour chief correspondent for arts and culture, will interview the author on a broadcast and ask readers’ questions.This month’s pick is “Sing, Unburied, Sing,” by Jesmyn Ward. Set in contemporary Mississippi, the novel contains traits of the American road novel and ghost stories, and touches on the aftermath of a hurricane and the opioid epidemic.Our critic called it Ms. Ward’s “most unsparing book.” The novel won the 2017 National Book Award for fiction and was one of The New York Times Book Review’s 10 Best Books of 2017.To learn more about the book club, join the “Now Read This” Facebook group.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By VINDU GOEL and SUHASINI RAJJAN. 7, 2018
ALIGARH, India — Signs and banners for Paytm, India’s biggest digital payments service, festoon Pooran Singh’s cellphone shop, where people drop in all day to add data or talk time to their prepaid phones.Yet few of these people actually use Paytm at the store, which straddles two dusty streets in this sleepy north Indian city in which tractors jostle with cows for space on the narrow roads.“People recharge in cash,” Mr. Singh said, after a young man handed him 20 rupees, about 32 cents, to top up his mother’s phone.The scene in Mr. Singh’s shop underscores a persistent reality of India’s economy: People prefer cash for most routine transactions, despite intensive efforts by the government and global technology companies to lure them onto digital platforms.AdvertisementIndia’s reluctance to give up paper money poses challenges for the firms that are vying to offer electronic payments, including local players like Paytm, which has received financing from the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, and American tech companies, like Facebook, Google and PayPal.Advertisement“Cash is convenient,” said Caesar Sengupta, who oversees Google’s products for emerging markets. “It’s anonymous. You can use it everywhere.”Even so, tech companies see India’s low rate of digital payments as an opportunity. They all cite China, where in just a few years, mobile payments became so popular that it is now difficult to get through the day with cash alone.“In India, we’re going to see a similar rise,” Mr. Sengupta said in November, shortly after Google introduced Tez, a payments app for India.One reason for tech companies’ optimism is that digital payments in India have increased over the past year. The value of transactions using digital wallets, the business on which Paytm was built, rose 64 percent from December 2016 to December 2017. Transactions made with the Unified Payments Interface, a government-backed technology used by Tez and many other mobile apps, went from virtually nothing a year ago to $2.1 billion last month.Leading India’s budding payments shift are Paytm and its chief executive, Vijay Shekhar Sharma.Mr. Sharma founded the company seven years ago as a way for cellphone users to pay their bills online. It is now India’s largest consumer-payments app, with 302 million account holders and 90 million active users.Customers can use it to buy goods at physical stores, book movie or airline tickets, send money to each other or order items from Paytm’s online mall. A transaction requires a quick scan of a merchant’s bar code or a few taps on a smartphone, rivaling Apple Pay or Venmo in simplicity.Mr. Sharma aspires to put his company at the center of Indians’ financial lives, and he has pledged to spend $1.9 billion over the next two years toward that goal.Advertisement“Our truest ambition is for Paytm to be known as the bank for this new-age, digital, mobile world,” he said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Noida, just outside Delhi.Merchants like Mr. Singh are crucial to Paytm’s plans.The company pays Mr. Singh a bounty of 20 rupees for each of the eight or so customers he signs up each month, with additional payments if a newcomer continues to use the service. He earns an additional 18 rupees each time he verifies the identity of an existing Paytm user with his fingerprint scanner, a new requirement imposed by the government on all digital wallet companies.Mr. Singh’s phone shop has also become a virtual A.T.M. for Paytm’s nascent banking division, which plans to turn 100,000 shops across India into mini-branches where customers can deposit and withdraw cash, get a loan and buy insurance policies.“We really want to reach the underserved, underbanked customer,” said Renu Satti, who leads the Paytm bank.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Paytm’s strategy dovetails with the goals of India’s central government. Narendra Modi, who became prime minister in 2014, has sought to recast his country as “digital India,” and his government has heavily promoted cashless transactions.In November 2016, Mr. Modi suddenly banned most of India’s currency. The edict forced people to exchange their rupees for new notes at banks, setting off a short-term cash crunch and prompting many Indians to consider digital options.Still, the country’s cash economy has endured.Only one-third of India’s 1.3 billion residents have access to the internet. Of those who are able to go online, just 14 percent make mobile payments at least once a week, according to Kantar TNS, a research firm based in London.Consumer trust is a big issue. Ghani Khan, who was finishing a snack with his wife at Aligarh’s lone McDonald’s, said that someone had once stolen 3,300 rupees, what would be about $52 now, from his Paytm account.Advertisement“People feel scared to use these apps,” Mr. Khan said. Although he got his money back, he now avoids payment apps, preferring to use cash or his debit card. (Paytm says that most such problems are related to thieves who call users and persuade them to turn over sensitive account data.)Merchants also worry that officials are promoting digital transactions as a way to better track commerce — and collect more taxes.Anusheel Shrivastava, a top Kantar executive in India, said his firm found that 6 percent of mobile phone users made at least one digital transaction a day in 2017, up from 2 percent in 2016.That number is likely to increase further when WhatsApp, the messaging service owned by Facebook, adds payments to its service in the next few months.Paytm stands out in part because of the 10,000 employees that it has in the field to help new businesses use the service, educate existing ones about new features and troubleshoot problems. There are about six million merchants in its network, from giant multinationals like Uber to tiny neighborhood sweet shops.“We have to train them, we have to retrain them, we have to visit them,” said Yashwin Gupta, who oversees a team of 65 Paytm representatives in the region that includes Aligarh. “That’s our daily job.”The job is getting easier now that Paytm is better known.Last month, Mukesh Gupta sought Paytm’s help in setting up the service for his toy shop here after 10 to 20 percent of his customers asked to pay with Paytm. “People like to spend money on more than just needs,” he said.Aligarh, with 1.2 million residents, is a barometer for Paytm’s progress because it’s a midsize city, and because Mr. Sharma, the company’s chief executive, grew up nearby.AdvertisementOn one visit home, he said, he met a Hindi-speaking merchant who did not know how to get money out of Paytm and into his bank.The problem? Paytm’s app for merchants was in English, and the icons were not clear enough for those who did not speak the language. Paytm soon developed a Hindi version.In recent months, skeptics have questioned whether Paytm can maintain its growth. The new regulations requiring customer verification could turn off some customers. The company is also spending heavily on incentives, such as giving cash back on certain purchases and free credit-card processing for merchants.Mr. Sharma said such expenses were necessary investments.“The only way to grow digital transactions is to make them free,” he said. “This is a culturally different country being built.”Ayesha Venkataraman contributed research from Mumbai.Follow Vindu Goel and Suhasini Raj on Twitter: @vindugoel and @suhasiniraj.A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Digital Money Pushes Into India.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas KristofDAVOS, Switzerland — When I visit university campuses, I’m periodically asked if students who seek jobs in the business world are immoral, money-grubbing sellouts.I don’t think they are, for businesses can be a hugely important force for progress. Can be, but usually aren’t. Swirling in the air here in Davos at the World Economic Forum, along with snowflakes, is an important discussion of how companies must do far more to benefit the 99 percent, not just the 1 percent. Enriching shareholders is not enough.We interrupt this column for a paragraph of cynicism. Tycoons always claim to cherish ordinary people’s best interests even as they rip them off. American tobacco executives have killed more people than Stalin managed to, and pharma executives recklessly peddling opioids may have killed as many people as Colombian drug lords, yet these business leaders sometimes seem to get moist-eyed describing the work they do.But the business toolbox is too important to give up on. To me, the most interesting people in Davos aren’t the presidents or celebrities, but the social entrepreneurs — those using business tools to address social problems — and their work offers an inspiring window into what can be accomplished.Christopher Mikkelsen works with two dozen companies, including cellphone operators and Facebook, to help refugees find lost members of their families. His organization, Refunite, once helped two Congolese sisters find each other after 16 years; they turned out to be living just a few miles apart in Nairobi.Refunite is now helping more than one million refugees search for missing family members. It has already helped 40,000 of them connect, and Mikkelsen says this would never be possible if it were just an aid group rather than a hybrid piggybacking on business networks.Sasha Kramer works in Haiti to address two fundamental problems: a lack of toilets and declining soil fertility. Her organization, SOIL, charges customers a few dollars a month to provide and service composting toilets that turn human waste into safe agricultural fertilizer. The cost is one-third of what a sewage system would cost to operate.With water shortages around the world, there’s growing interest in that approach, so Haiti may become a model for other nations in the developing world.In Kenya, Christie Peacock tackles a huge problem for farmers: Much of the feed, medicine and other agricultural supplies for sale are fake or substandard, including about 60 percent of the fertilizer. When farmers buy fake seeds, their crops fail, and they go hungry.Peacock previously worked in the aid world, but, she says, “I got disillusioned with the NGO model,” so her company, Sidai, is a for-profit venture founded with start-up capital from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It now serves 200,000 Kenyan farmers.That’s the advantage of a business approach: It is often more sustainable and scalable than a charity. By working with African farmers to improve coffee production, Starbucks helps lift more people out of poverty than any number of aid efforts.Among the giant corporations, there’s at least more of the right kind of talk. Laurence Fink, the chief executive of the investment firm BlackRock and one of the biggest investors in the world, shook the business world last week with an implicit threat to punish small-minded companies that “only deliver financial performance” without “a positive contribution to society.”What’s driving the rethink isn’t a tingling of the tycoon conscience but brutal self-interest. Millennials want to work for ethical companies, patronize brands that make them feel good and invest in socially responsible companies.Some of this is shallow and some is deep, but it’s authentic: Doing good is no longer a matter of writing a few checks at the end of the year, as it was for my generation; for many young people, it’s an ethos that governs where they work, shop and invest.C.E.O.s tell me that this forces their hand. If companies protect groping scumbags, that hurts recruitment and they lose in the war for talent. Increasingly, a company that ignores social value loses shareholder value.I believe the best industries for doing good are law (pro bono work) and certain pharmaceuticals (drug donation programs). That’s because they are held accountable by metrics: Big law firms are ranked by American Lawyer for their pro bono work (Jenner & Block is top of the list), and pharma donations are rated by the Access to Medicines Index (GSK is No. 1).Other companies hailed as model global citizens include Unilever, Starbucks, Whole Foods, Mastercard, Danone and Chobani. (What is it with yogurt companies? Their culture?)When companies with hundreds of thousands of employees elevate women, fight for Dreamers, adopt environment-friendly packaging, when they serve not only shareholders but also the larger society, the impact can be transformational. But enough with the gauzy rhetoric. It’s time for businesses to walk the talk.I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on Twitter (@NickKristof).OpinionNicholas KristofOpinionNicholas KristofOpinionNicholas KristofAdvertisementBy DECLAN WALSHJAN. 24, 2018
The last main challenger dropped out of Egypt’s presidential election on Wednesday, effectively clearing the field for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to run virtually unopposed in a vote that is shaping up to be a referendum on his military-backed rule.The challenger, the human rights lawyer Khaled Ali, said a fair contest was no longer possible after a concerted government effort to derail his campaign by arresting his supporters and frustrating his efforts to register as a candidate.“It was difficult and, frankly, bitter,” Mr. Ali told reporters in Cairo of his decision to exit the race.Mr. Ali quit one day after Sami Anan, a former army chief who had declared his candidacy, was arrested by the military on charges of forgery and “incitement.” On Wednesday Mr. Anan’s son, Samir, said the family had no news of his whereabouts.Advertisement“We are just waiting to see what happens,” he said.Neither Mr. Ali nor Mr. Anan was considered a serious electoral threat to Mr. Sisi, who has ruled with a tight, often harsh grip since the military deposed Egypt’s first democratically elected leader in 2013. But despite his advantage in the election, Mr. Sisi has appeared intent on crushing all independent challengers even before their campaigns could start.AdvertisementIn December, a little-known army officer was court-martialed and sentenced to six years in prison for declaring his candidacy. Ahmed Shafik, a former prime minister who came in a close second in the 2012 election, was forced to return from exile in December, only to disappear into a Cairo hotel where he was held by security officials who pressed him to quit, according to his lawyer.Another potential candidate, Mohamed Anwar Sadat, the nephew of former President Anwar Sadat, said the pressure was so bad that officials blocked him from hiring a hall in a five-star hotel for his news conferences.With those candidates gone, Mr. Sisi’s greatest challenge in the first round of voting, scheduled for March 26 to 28, may be to muster a convincing turnout. His supporters claimed to have the signatures of 12 million Egyptians urging him to run. But already there are signs of deep voter cynicism.“Just bring on the referendum,” Mina Mansy, a prominent government critic, wrote wearily on Facebook on Wednesday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Nominations for the election close on Monday, but for now the only remaining candidate of note, aside Mr. Sisi, is Mortada Mansour, a flamboyant, publicity-loving lawmaker famous for swearing at government critics on television and running a major soccer team that has fallen from glory in recent years.Mr. Ali, the lawyer, became a thorn in Mr. Sisi’s side last year after he won a court challenge that nullified Mr. Sisi’s decision to hand over two Red Sea islands to Saudi Arabia. The islands became an unexpectedly difficult issue for Mr. Sisi because they aroused a wave of rare public anger in a country where public protest is largely outlawed.But last summer Mr. Sisi sidestepped the courts and pushed through his decision on the islands, while Mr. Ali was convicted of public indecency for making an obscene gesture outside a courthouse.Even if he had continued as a candidate in the election, he faced the possibility of being disqualified from the race because of the conviction.AdvertisementMr. Ali’s announcement came on the eve of the seventh anniversary of the start of the 2011 uprising that led to the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak and, for a time, stoked hopes for democracy in Egypt, which has been led by strongmen for most of its modern history.Now Mr. Mubarak is in peaceful retirement, having been released from custody last year, while many of the revolutionaries who helped topple him are in Mr. Sisi’s jails, their hopes for democracy apparently dashed for now.“Compete with yourself,” Gamal Eid, a prominent Egyptian rights lawyer, said on Twitter, addressing Mr. Sisi. “The #January 25 revolution created the only presidential election in Egypt’s history. Everything before and after it is a joke.”Follow Declan Walsh on Twitter: @declanwalsh.Nour Youssef contributed reporting.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By VANESSA FRIEDMANJAN. 24, 2018
Clare Waight Keller did not invite a lot of people to the Givenchy couture show — her first ever couture show, and the first for the brand in eight years.She did not ask any celebrities. She didn’t really gussy up the rooms in the National Archives where the show was held — just pushed some chairs against the walls, so any light shining through the towering windows created striations on the bare wood floors and cast shadows across the audience. She didn’t make a big deal out of it beforehand on Instagram or Facebook, though she did send chunky, hardback books, all in black, as her invitations, with the title of her show, “Mysteries of a Garden at Night,” etched in gold on the spine.Books! In the age of the Kindle. Inside, the pages were blank.At a time when there’s much talk in fashion about “new chapters,” mostly as a way to frame the seemingly endless and increasingly problematic entrances and exits of designers, it was both a pointed commentary and a dare, given that paper and couture are regularly declared dead.Really? You think so? Ms. Keller has a different idea. Sometimes, you have to write your own prosody and let people discover it for themselves.
CreditGuillaume Roujas/Nowfashion        On Tuesday, in an entirely assured debut, she did exactly that.She mixed men’s wear tailoring — sharp and sleek of line — with fringe and fancy, throwing military greatcoats faced in dégradé feathers over gowns dripping in silver; transparent latex trench coats over tiers of rough-cut silk; leotard tops with square shoulders and exposed backs over a swirling rainbow skirts. She added men’s couture in similar materials, silhouette and silver. Hems were long and body parts mostly covered. That didn’t make it any less sophisticated or alluring.AdvertisementThere was very little excess verbiage, no pandering to the decorative or the shock of the underboob, and no falling back on the safety net of the tux. There was a nod to the severity of Givenchy’s past in the cut of the jackets and the color palette, but it was recast in Ms. Keller’s vernacular: modernism balanced with heritage on a knife edge. If her first ready-to-wear show for the house seemed like something of a throat-clearing, this was a bid to be the author of her own genre, as opposed to fan fiction.There’s a lot of that going around, in high fashion as in vampire romance. All those tales about millennials and the rise of gym wear and social media are muddying the classic narratives.AdvertisementOr so it seemed, anyway, in Giorgio Armani’s Privé show, a meditation on the sky in all its cloudy metamorphoses by way of — athcouture.Which is to say: 50 shades of evening shorts. In watercolor silk, paired with elaborately swagged bustier tops or single-button jackets. In cumulus organza, with matching camisoles and anoraks speckled with sequins. In paillette-covered bloomers and sequined biker styles. Oh, and when there were no shorts, there were beaded sweats and crystal leggings.
CreditRegis Colin Berthelier/Nowfashion        Also some lovely iridescent strapless soap-bubble dresses, understated trousers and executive jackets, and a pair of elegant gowns in gleaming silk. But shorts were the dominant theme. You can understand the idea: It’s a way to get out your legs for night and not be hampered by any practical concerns. The problem was that, on the runway, in front of such Armani-ites as Diane Kruger, Isabelle Huppert and Marion Cotillard, they read like a confusing subplot — albeit one with its own sense of direction, unlike Elie Saab’s ode to Paris in the 1920s by way of F. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemingway and their cohort.If “A Moveable Feast” had been rewritten in purple prose and bedazzled, with a flowing chiffon cape and a feather fillip for good measure, that is what it might look like.It was a different story, however, at Maison Margiela. There, in a kaleidoscopic, Kerouacian collection, John Galliano took the brand on the road via special holographic fabric developed in China that looked like oily black nylon when viewed with the naked eye, but that turned iridescent in the light of an iPhone’s flash; silvery oversize parka layers shadowing ornate brocade; and a long, spaghetti-strap gown veiled in lace and trapped under a PVC bustier.There was an apple green cable coat crafted from molded rubber; a flouro pink slipdress encircled by acrylic swirls like Saturn’s rings; and a skirt made entirely of multicolor, clacking plastic tags. Not to mention denim, fishnet, rhinestones and Chantilly lace; past and techno present layered one atop the other in a masterful display of sartorial free association with a sneaker underpinning. Wearability went out the window and it didn’t matter one whit.The effect was novel, in every sense of the word.Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.A version of this review appears in print on January 26, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Canadian Photography InstituteThe photographic process may depend on silver, but a new exhibit shows how gold — specifically, its discovery in California 170 years ago this week — was just as important as a subject for daguerreotypes. During the later half of the 19th century, gold fever was as intense — and short lived — as the nascent photographic process.Gold and Silver: Images and Illusions of the Gold Rush, on view through April 2 at the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, with a book co-published by the Canadian Photography Institute and RVB Books, explores the symbolism and materiality of precious metals: as a stabilizing element within the history of photography, and holding the promise of prosperity that shaped America.When gold was discovered in San Francisco in 1848, it set off a frenzy. News spread rapidly, and by 1849 the prospectors who descended upon California were dubbed “forty-niners.” Gold was there for the taking, without need for licenses or tax payments. California was not even a state: it belonged to Mexico, despite being occupied by U.S. troops. The west was full of swindlers and gangsters; it attracted men with a propensity for ruthlessness and greed. The lawless terrain belonged only to those who exploited it (if at the expense of the indigenous people), and photographs doubled as a primitive land registry. Boomtowns sprang up, thrived, then emptied out when the land could no longer be exploited.Around the same time, the daguerreotype enjoyed a similar surge in popularity. Invented in France by Louis-Jacques-Mandé Daguerre, the process utilized a silvered copper plate onto which a richly detailed image could appear. Its sensitivity to light made it at once highly conducive yet incredibly fragile. A gold bath gave it stability and the possibility of longevity.The perception of the daguerreotype differed sharply on each side of the Atlantic. The medium was considered scientific in France, since mechanized precision was deemed inferior to the idealized art of painting. But it was seen as a democratizing and theatrical tool in the United States. Portraits, once only for the wealthy, were suddenly accessible to all, and could be leveraged to present the illusion of social standing. “The bourgeois wanted to look like the aristocrat,” noted Luce Lebart, director of the Canadian Photography Institute and author of “Gold and Silver.” But the way the portraits were staged soon shifted from prim to provocative. The pioneers of the Gold Rush, with hardness in their eyes and pickaxes over their shoulders, used an antithetical approach to flaunt a higher social standing. Affluence had new iconography; the aristocrat gave way to the bandit, equipped with his aggressive toolkit: pistols, knives, and shovels. “When one thinks how much weapons have — and continue to — characterize American cinema or TV series,” Ms. Lebart noted, “these images form an archaeology of the American imagination.” These figures epitomized the American Dream: starting over from nothing, powered simply by an appetite for wealth attained quickly through bold actions and sheer luck. The sitters look not only subversively defiant, but disarmingly modern. Indeed, from the debonair foulards and manicured beards to the wide-brim hats, the men conjure a certain Brooklyn demographic.“The appearance of these argonauts is sometimes so close to that of contemporary hipsters that the viewer is almost perplexed,” Ms. Lebart acknowledged. “The images seem very contemporary through the poses, the hairstyles, the allure, and even the clothes.” Also easily confused as contemporaneous: the manual retouching on the images. Photographers of the period embellished images with bronzine, a copper-and-bronze mix, to highlight accessories like boutonnières or watches, and to gild frames, almost anticipating graphic design practices. Despite the heightened aesthetics of the images, the motivation behind them was never intentionally artistic. Images were kept in the family, often as a mantelpiece aide-memoire for faraway loved ones.The discovery of gold in Dawson City in 1896 reignited a fresh fervor for thousands of prospectors in mountainous northwest Canada. The city was named after George Mercer Dawson, a geologist and photographer who made images of the Yukon a decade before the territory was transformed by greed. In the nearly 50 years between these two gold rushes, photography changed drastically: from one-off images on metal to reproducible images on glass or paper. The range of subjects expanded. Charlie Chaplin saw images by Eric A. Hegg — the most famous of which shows prospectors climbing along the U.S./Canada border at the Chilkoot Pass — which in turn inspired his 1925 movie “The Gold Rush.” He recreated the astonishing scene of a succession of men crossing the brutal terrain to satisfy their Eldorado appetites.The collection of images, culled from 11,000 daguerreotypes donated to the National Gallery of Canada’s Canadian Photography Institute, is especially powerful because it disrupts common thinking about photography history. This is true formally — “the technology of the daguerreotype was incredible; the sharpness is barely equaled today,” Ms. Lebart said — and emblematically. “This archive is striking because these images, which are very old, do not correspond to the ideas we have of ‘old’ photographs: dusty, yellowing, boring.” The radical nature of early photography deserves greater recognition, Ms. Lebart stressed. “Our perception of the ‘old photo’ is backwards. Historical photos are thought of as ‘old’ when, in reality, they are ‘young.’ They are the youth of the medium,” she noted. “We are old.” “Gold and Silver” is organized by the Canadian Photography Institute in partnership with Library and Archives Canada, with a gift of “The Origins of Photography” from the Archive of Modern Conflict.
Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryBy BEN HUBBARDJAN. 22, 2018
BEIRUT, Lebanon — Vice President Mike Pence said on Monday that a new United States Embassy to Israel would open in Jerusalem before the end of 2019.Mr. Pence’s statement, made to the Israeli Parliament during a trip to the Holy Land, follows President Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital last month, a move that overturned decades of American policy and international consensus on the status of the holy city.Palestinians claim Jerusalem as their capital or believe it should be divided, with East Jerusalem becoming the capital of a Palestinian state. The international consensus, previously supported by the United States, has been that the city’s status can be determined only through negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians.Arab lawmakers rose to their feet at the start of Mr. Pence’s speech in the Israeli Parliament and held up signs reading “Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine.” Ushers pulled down the signs and escorted them out of the room, to the applause of others in the hall.AdvertisementIn recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, Mr. Trump endorsed the Israeli position, but has said that the embassy’s move to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv should not hamper peace talks. He says he is working on a “deal of the century” that will resolve the conflict, though few details have been released.AdvertisementMr. Trump has also threatened to shutter an office of the Palestine Liberation Organization in Washington and cut American donations to the United Nations agency that provides services for Palestinian refugees.That approach has been welcomed by many Israelis, while rankling with Palestinians, whose political and religious leaders have refused to meet Mr. Pence.In his speech to the Parliament, Mr. Pence spoke in glowing terms of the long alliance between the United States and Israel, framing it as part of an epic battle.“We stand with Israel because we believe in right over wrong, in good over evil, and in liberty over tyranny,” Mr. Pence said.Mr. Pence, an evangelical Christian, dotted his address with biblical references and spoke of the Jewish connection to Jerusalem in historical and religious terms.Arab members of Israel’s Parliament orchestrated a collective demonstration against the U.S. Embassy move as Vice President Mike Pence spoke in Jerusalem on Monday.“The United States has chosen fact over fiction, and fact is the only true foundation for a just and lasting peace,” he said.He scarcely mentioned the Palestinians and did not refer to their history in the Holy Land, nor to their territorial claims. He said the United States would support a two-state solution “if both sides agree.”AdvertisementDuring a meeting with Mr. Pence before the speech, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said, “This is the first time that I stand here where both leaders can say those three words: ‘Israel’s capital Jerusalem,’ ”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Israeli defense minister, Avigdor Lieberman, wrote on Twitter that the speech “carried a message of hope for all people in the region.”In a statement on her Facebook page, Israel’s culture minister, Miri Regev, called Mr. Pence “a very welcome guest here” and thanked him and Mr. Trump for endorsing the Israeli claim to Jerusalem and for cutting funding for the United Nations agency.“Truth must be said and the truth is that Israel and Jerusalem belong to the Jewish people,” Ms. Regev wrote.The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, will not meet Mr. Pence. He has called Mr. Trump’s Jerusalem declaration “a slap in the face.”Saeb Erekat, the chief negotiator for the Palestinians, said that Mr. Pence’s “messianic discourse” was “a gift to extremists.”“His message to the rest of the world is clear: violate international law & resolutions and the US will reward you,” he said, according to his office’s Twitter account.
            Dr. Saeb Erekat: The messianic discourse of Pence is a gift to extremists & has proven that the US Administration is part of the problem rather than the solution. His message to the rest of the world is clear: violate international law & resolutions and the US will reward you.        Mr. Pence has spoken of protecting Christian minorities in the Middle East, but he has been widely shunned by those same Christians for his embrace of the Israeli position on Jerusalem.No Arab Christian leaders have agreed to meet with him during his visit, and he is not scheduled to visit Christian holy sites like the city of Nazareth, the West Bank town of Bethlehem or the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, where tradition holds that Jesus was crucified.Mr. Pence canceled his last planned trip to the Holy Land before Christmas after Christian Arab leaders declined to meet with him.Irit Pazner Garshowitz contributed reporting from Jerusalem.A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem Will Open in ’19, Pence Says.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Chen GuangchengApple is selling out. It’s not about the latest version of the iPhone, but the huge cache of personal data that will be going directly to the largest, and one of the harshest, authoritarian regimes in the world: the Communist government of China.Given the Chinese government’s continuing crackdown on human rights and freedom of speech under President Xi Jinping, as well as its deepening reach into Western democracies, Apple’s policies in China have far-reaching implications for us all.Last summer, Apple announced that it would be partnering with Guizhou-Cloud Big Data, a state-owned company with Communist Party connections, to build Apple’s first data-storage center in China. Beginning Feb. 28, the iCloud content of Apple ID users registered in China will be sent to and managed by Guizhou-Cloud Big Data.Customers registered in China, according to Apple’s new terms and conditions agreement for the country, must “understand and agree that Apple and G.C.B.D. will have access to all data that you store on this service, including the right to share, exchange and disclose all user data, including content, to and between each other under applicable law.”In short, all personal user information stored on the iCloud — including photos, videos, text files, contacts, calendars and iCloud email — will be shared with Guizhou-Cloud Big Data and could be available to the Chinese authorities as well. Apple has said that G.C.B.D. will not have access to the personal data stored in its facility without Apple’s permission, but the new terms and conditions agreement appears to say the opposite.Under the agreement, Apple seems to be absolving itself of responsibility for what the authorities may choose to do with personal data in G.C.B.D.’s hands. Users who refuse Apple’s terms will be denied iCloud services. Users who accept run the risk of unwittingly provoking the ire of the aggressive police state, resulting in deleted data or accounts, or harassment and imprisonment.This kind of partnership between an American company and a dictatorial regime is at odds with the image Apple has built as a company committed to privacy and a willingness to stand up to pressure from larger entities like the United States government. In a 2015 interview with NPR, the Apple chief executive Tim Cook emphasized that privacy “is a fundamental human right that people have,” from a “values point of view,” not “a commercial interest point of view.”Unfortunately, it now seems that such “values” are taking a back seat to profits.In 2017, Apple also announced it was halting the sale of virtual private networks, apps that allow users inside China to get access to blocked content that is critical for activists and regular citizens. IPhones in China also no longer include some Western news outlets like The New York Times on the News app.In response to criticism about these steps, Apple has blithely responded that it is obeying China’s laws. Is this how American companies should respond to dictatorial demands and arbitrary, unjust legal codes?The Chinese regime makes no apologies about its human rights violations and seems not to care whom it crushes in its quest for power and control, whether it is the Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo, who died last year in Chinese custody, or the many human-rights lawyers and activists who have been detained and tortured in recent years.When dealing with the Chinese regime, American companies should likewise not apologize for their commitment to the fundamental values — human rights, democracy, freedom of information, the rule of law — that have allowed them to flourish. American companies should not follow practices in authoritarian countries that are illegal in the United States.It’s hard to believe that Apple is caving in to the regime like this. The only conclusion I am left to draw is that the company is O.K. with taking part in the suppression of freedoms abroad while espousing high-minded values at home.To be fair, many American tech companies have been tripping over themselves to get into China. Facebook has reportedly been developing censorship software so that it can win approval to operate in China, while the company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has long been courting the Chinese leadership. For such companies, the Chinese market is simply too big of a temptation when weighed against less quantitatively measurable things like human rights and freedom of expression.Those companies, institutions and organizations that play an outsize role in society should not shirk their responsibility to uphold social justice. The Chinese people have been fighting for human rights for decades, including the rights to privacy, freedom of speech and democracy. Many have lost their lives doing so. Instead of aiding dictatorships and following a misguided path to the future, Apple should return to its core values and protect the rights of its users at home and abroad.Chen Guangcheng, a civil-rights activist, is the author of “The Barefoot Lawyer: A Blind Man’s Fight for Justice and Freedom in China.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCredit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Lynn JohnsonAfter tackling controversial subjects like fracking and air pollution, Brian Cohen was looking for a similarly urgent project for his loose collective of photographers based in Pittsburgh. Given the intense debate over borders, walls and fear of outsiders, the topic was obvious: human migration. It was a prescient choice, as in 2018 alone, President Trump reportedly dismissed Haiti, El Salvador and African nations as “s-hole” countries, while James Comey, the F.B.I. director he fired, took to Twitter to invoke the idealistic lines from Emma Lazarus’s poem “The New Colossus” that grace the Statue of Liberty.Mr. Cohen again enlisted the National Geographic photojournalist Lynn Johnson, and the photographers Annie O’Neill and Scott Goldsmith, along with a newcomer, Nate Guidry, to make a photographic series about some aspect of the immigration issue in Pittsburgh. The resulting images and interviews formed “Out of Many: Stories of Migration,” which was recently exhibited at the city’s American Jewish Museum and opened at the Westmoreland Museum of American Art, in nearby Greensburg, on Jan. 20.“We seem to hear the same echoes and accusations,” said Mr. Cohen, who is also an art historian. “The same name-calling and fear that we have of the stranger, of someone who’s coming with different traditions, different foods and different languages. I guess we’re hoping for this project to at least enable people to remember that they too, and their ancestors, came from somewhere else.”Mr. Cohen was interested in the issue of migration — which he noted differs from immigration, given the history of slavery — not only because it was relevant, but also because he’s an immigrant from North London. The topic resonated with his team, which was concerned about the negative rhetoric that has developed in the wake of Brexit, and Trumpism.Mr. Cohen’s contribution includes some sharp, well-composed cultural landscape photos, featuring buildings central to Pittsburgh’s various immigrant communities. Ms. Johnson photographed swearing-in ceremonies for newly minted American citizens in black and white, and then asked some if she could photograph them with their families in their homes, in color.“A photograph can inspire someone to keep it in their consciousness, and realize the way you treat the person who is bagging your groceries, or who is your doctor, can impact people at every level, and that’s an essential choice: to treat everyone with dignity,” she said.Mr. Goldsmith photographed newly-arrived Bhutanese immigrants at the airport; Mr. Guidry focused his attention on a Mexican single father raising two young girls; while Ms. O’Neill paired immigrants with something in common, recorded their conversations and then photographed them. She feels that a certain neighborliness, as well as an openness toward strangers, is common in Pittsburgh, which might account for the city’s large number of immigrant communities.“It’s a beautiful city,” she said. “It’s a manageable city, and affordable. I have five of my neighbors’ keys. We have these great things called ‘Stoop Sits.’ You’re just walking down the street, and your neighbor will be sitting on their stoop, having a wine or soda. And next thing you know, there are five other neighbors joining you. It’s very spontaneous.”The collective’s previous efforts have traveled out of the Pittsburgh area, and they hope this exhibition will too. In addition to the show, there is also an exhibition catalog in the works, and they’re developing an applike digital component as well, which will allow for audience participation.Together, the members believe they can move the needle on the cultural dialogue, even if it’s only a little bit. Hatred and fear-mongering always rely on stereotyping and sweeping cultural generalizations, and Ms. Johnson, who studied hate crimes in graduate school, believes that only one-on-one interactions can force people to confront, and then transcend, their biases.“You cannot move forward if you hold prejudice, and we all do, in your heart,” she said. “It will never change unless you meet someone to challenge it on an intimate, individual and personal level.”During the course of her project, she met immigrants from Nepal, India, Russia, Iraq, Iran, China, Pakistan, Tanzania, Sierra Leone, Biafra, Syria and Poland. It was such a powerful experience, she suggested President Trump could benefit from a similar encounter.“He should come to the Westmoreland Museum and meet the people who will be standing there, looking at pictures of themselves, knowing what they gave up to be here,” Ms. Johnson said. “It makes you wonder whether he has ever stepped outside of his luxury, distorted bubble. It’s not possible to say that if you truly know people.”Jonathan Blaustein is an artist and writer based in New Mexico. He contributes regularly to the blog A Photo Editor. Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryAdvertisementSupported bythat decisive momentOur critics and reporters offer a glimpse of what’s moved and delighted them on YouTube. Read the rest of our classical music coverage here.at 24 secondsIgor Levit — who won one of the most prestigious prizes in music this week, the $300,000 Gilmore Artist Award — allows his politics to inform his artistry to an extent that is rare in the classical world. At the first night of the BBC Proms last summer, in a London consumed by Brexit, Mr. Levit made a pointed statement with his encore, Beethoven’s “Ode to Joy,” the anthem of the European Union, a point he underlined with the E.U. pin he wore. But the power of the gesture came from his musicianship — the way his left hand drew out the ominous undertones of Liszt’s transcription, making the familiar, joyful melody seem hard-won when it finally rings out clearly. MICHAEL COOPERRead our profile of Mr. Levit, and watch a 360-degree video featuring his piano flying above the streets of Berlin.Read our review of Mr. Levit’s New York recital debut in 2014.Read our review of “Goldberg,” Mr. Levit’s 2015 collaboration with Marina Abramovic.Read our review of Mr. Levit’s debut recital at Carnegie Hall last year.AT 1 MINUTE 10 SECONDSIn his first appearance after winning the Gilmore, a celebratory talk and recital at the Greene Space on Thursday night, Igor Levit opened with understated virtuosity: the Chaconne from Bach’s Partita No. 2 for violin, transcribed for the left hand by Brahms. The piece takes place mostly in the piano’s lower range, which is notoriously muddy, but not in Mr. Levit’s hands — er, hand. Many critics have noted his phenomenal precision, and you can hear why in this recording of Frederic Rzewski’s 1975 variations on “The People United Will Never Be Defeated!” In the final movement, the theme returns as hammered chords (marked with accents on top of a forte) played almost entirely on the lower half of the piano. The melody inside those chords couldn’t be clearer. JOSHUA BARONEAT 2 MINUTES 47 SECONDSAhead of her performances with the New York Philharmonic this week, the cellist Alisa Weilerstein joined us for a Facebook Live concert and interview. She closed with the two bourrées from Bach’s Suite No. 3 in C, which she has been touring as part of a three-hour marathon of all six of Bach’s cello suites. I asked when we could expect a recording; alas, likely not this year. But this led me back to her other albums, including her impassioned recording of Dvorak’s Cello Concerto with the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra in 2014. Her playing has the expressive power of human voice — especially in the second movement, in which Dvorak borrows the melody from his lied “Lasst mich allein.” The song’s opening line, “Leave me alone in my dreams,” comes through in Ms. Weilerstein’s playing, with the fragile sincerity of a pleading heart. JOSHUA BARONEWatch Alisa Weilerstein on Facebook Live and read our review of her concert with the Philharmonic.At 1 minute 46 secondsElectronic works by the composer Natasha Barrett were among the highlights I encountered at a “spatial audio workshop” last summer at Empac, the experimental performance center in Troy, N.Y. Reading an intriguing best-of-2017 list by the music writer Simon Cummings, I was alerted to the existence of a new album focused on some of Ms. Barrett’s early pieces. My current favorite from the batch is “Racing Unseen.” The composition starts out with some harsh and distorted waves of sound, before settling into a lull influenced by ambient textures. This calm is not long-lived, though. Shortly before the two-minute mark, a single thwack — suggestive of steel percussion — heralds a slow turn toward rhythmic chaos. When the composition reaches a feverish peak, Ms. Barrett can be heard toying with the beats in a way that might thrill fans of house music from Chicago’s “footwork” scene. SETH COLTER WALLSat 1 minute 3 secondsThe charismatic tenor Vittorio Grigolo, who never holds back, is a hotheaded and heroic Cavaradossi in the Metropolitan Opera’s new production of Puccini’s “Tosca.” Mr. Grigolo’s fans, who love his burnished sound and unbridled passion, are sure to be thrilled. Yet other opera buffs can’t get past some rawness in his voice. That downside matters more when he takes on classic bel canto roles, like Nemorino in Donizetti’s “L’Elisir d’Amore,” which he sang at the Met in 2016. Here he is in the aria “Una furtiva lagrima.” He does have a penchant for scooping (that is, sliding) up to higher notes rather than executing them cleanly. (Listen to the second phrase.) Still, if you can accept this as a characteristic of Mr. Grigolo’s dramatic approach and not as a vocal mannerism, rewards come with the ardency and sheen of his singing. When he exclaims “M’ama” (“She loves me”), about the woman he loves from afar, Mr. Grigolo sounds overcome with fervor and hope. Of course she loves him. How could she not? ANTHONY TOMMASINIRead our review of the new “Tosca.”AT 1 MINUTE 17 SECONDSSergei Prokofiev, an adherent of Christian Science, was not especially known for settings of music of the Russian Orthodox Church, so he seemed the odd man out amid the likes of Kastalsky, Chesnokov and Rachmaninoff in a New Year’s program by the PaTRAM Institute Singers and the Clarion Choir. At the end of the PaTRAM half of the program came “Many Years,” Prokofiev’s arrangement of a centuries-old refrain for the coronation scene in Eisenstein’s 1944 film “Ivan the Terrible.” Here the festival choir of the Summer School of Liturgical Music at Holy Trinity Monastery in Jordanville, N.Y., sings it, after a minute of rising chant — a signature of the style — sung by a basso profundo acting as deacon: “Grant, O Lord, a prosperous and peaceful life.” JAMES R. OESTREICHat 30 seconds In a 1910 letter to the composer Edgar Varèse, Debussy complained of feeling betrayed by “so-called” pianists. “I can’t tell you the extent to which my piano music has been deformed,” he wrote. This year, the centennial of Debussy’s death, will offer many opportunities to hear his music, including the piano works. What bothered him about the way many pianists played his music, I think, is that they took the “Impressionist” label (and Debussy disliked that word) as an invitation for excessively loose rhythm and overly blurry textures. We have a few precious examples of Debussy at the piano. In 1904 he recorded a few short songs and a brief excerpt from “Pelléas et Mélisande” with Mary Garden, the soprano Debussy chose to create the role of Mélisande in 1902. Here they are in the fifth song (“Green”) from his cycle “Ariettes Oubliées.” You have to listen closely and disregard the surface noise. Debussy plays the lilting opening lightly and crisply. When splashes of watery arpeggios break out, the sound is milky but also wonderfully scintillating. ANTHONY TOMMASINIAT 53 SECONDSTenet ushered out the Christmas season on Wednesday with Vespers music of the 17th-century German master Michael Praetorius, who has always struck me as the proprietor of the holiday candy store. His sweets include multiple settings of the hymn “Puer Natus in Bethlehem” (“A Boy Is Born in Bethlehem”), sung by Tenet this week in a version different from the more elaborate one it sings here, in a 2013 performance in San Diego with the Dark Horse Consort and the Bach Collegium San Diego. JAMES R. OESTREICHAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Mark WeisbrotWASHINGTON — The rule of law and the independence of the judiciary are fragile achievements in many countries — and susceptible to sharp reversals.Brazil, the last country in the Western world to abolish slavery, is a fairly young democracy, having emerged from dictatorship just three decades ago. In the past two years, what could have been a historic advancement — the Workers’ Party government granted autonomy to the judiciary to investigate and prosecute official corruption — has turned into its opposite. As a result, Brazil’s democracy is now weaker than it has been since military rule ended.This week, that democracy may be further eroded as a three-judge appellate court decides whether the most popular political figure in the country, former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of the Workers’ Party, will be barred from competing in the 2018 presidential election, or even jailed.There is not much pretense that the court will be impartial. The presiding judge of the appellate panel has already praised the trial judge’s decision to convict Mr. da Silva for corruption as “technically irreproachable,” and the judge’s chief of staff posted on her Facebook page a petition calling for Mr. da Silva’s imprisonment.The trial judge, Sérgio Moro, has demonstrated his own partisanship on numerous occasions. He had to apologize to the Supreme Court in 2016 for releasing wiretapped conversations between Mr. da Silva and President Dilma Rousseff, his lawyer, and his wife and children. Judge Moro arranged a spectacle for the press in which the police showed up at Mr. da Silva’s home and took him away for questioning — even though Mr. da Silva had said he would report voluntarily for questioning.The evidence against Mr. da Silva is far below the standards that would be taken seriously in, for example, the United States’ judicial system.He is accused of having accepted a bribe from a big construction company, called OAS, which was prosecuted in Brazil’s “Carwash” corruption scheme. That multibillion-dollar scandal involved companies paying large bribes to officials of the state-owned oil company, Petrobras, to obtain contracts at grossly inflated prices.The bribe alleged to have been received by Mr. da Silva is an apartment owned by OAS. But there is no documentary evidence that either Mr. da Silva or his wife ever received title to, rented or even stayed in the apartment, nor that they tried to accept this gift.The evidence against Mr. da Silva is based on the testimony of one convicted OAS executive, José Aldemário Pinheiro Filho, who had his prison sentence reduced in exchange for turning state’s evidence. According to reporting by the prominent Brazilian newspaper Folha de São Paulo, Mr. Pinheiro was blocked from plea bargaining when he originally told the same story as Mr. da Silva about the apartment. He also spent about six months in pretrial detention. (This evidence is discussed in the 238-page sentencing document.)But this scanty evidence was enough for Judge Moro. In something that Americans might consider to be a kangaroo court proceeding, he sentenced Mr. da Silva to nine and a half years in prison.The rule of law in Brazil had already been dealt a devastating blow in 2016 when Mr. da Silva’s successor, Ms. Rousseff, who was elected in 2010 and re-elected in 2014, was impeached and removed from office. Most of the world (and possibly most of Brazil) may believe that she was impeached for corruption. In fact, she was accused of an accounting maneuver that temporarily made the federal budget deficit look smaller than it otherwise would appear. It was something that other presidents and governors had done without consequences. And the government’s own federal prosecutor concluded that it was not a crime.While there were officials involved in corruption from parties across the political spectrum, including the Workers’ Party, there were no charges of corruption against Ms. Rousseff in the impeachment proceedings.Mr. da Silva remains the front-runner in the October election because of his and the party’s success in reversing a long economic decline. From 1980 to 2003, the Brazilian economy barely grew at all, about 0.2 percent annually per capita. Mr. da Silva took office in 2003, and Ms. Rousseff in 2011. By 2014, poverty had been reduced by 55 percent and extreme poverty by 65 percent. The real minimum wage increased by 76 percent, real wages overall had risen 35 percent, unemployment hit record lows, and Brazil’s infamous inequality had finally fallen.But in 2014, a deep recession began, and the Brazilian right was able to take advantage of the downturn to stage what many Brazilians consider a parliamentary coup.If Mr. da Silva is barred from the presidential election, the result could have very little legitimacy, as in the Honduran election in November that was widely seen as stolen. A poll last year found that 42.7 percent of Brazilians believed that Mr. da Silva was being persecuted by the news media and the judiciary. A noncredible election could be politically destabilizing.Perhaps most important, Brazil will have reconstituted itself as a much more limited form of electoral democracy, in which a politicized judiciary can exclude a popular political leader from running for office. That would be a calamity for Brazilians, the region and the world.Mark Weisbrot, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington and the president of Just Foreign Policy, is the author of “Failed: What the ‘Experts’ Got Wrong About the Global Economy.”Advertisement
Australia Fare By                     
BESHA RODELL

JAN. 4, 2018

CreditMatthew Abbott for The New York Times        SYDNEY, Australia — At Saint Peter, in Sydney, toast comes piled with the liver of John Dory, and chips holding a delicate brandade of smoked eel are made from the eyeball of a different kind of dory.The restaurant has a dedicated aging room, where blue mackerel is hung for 12 days before being served with bitter radicchio in a sweet-and-sour sauce, and albacore is aged for as long as 41 days. Like dry-aging meat, the process intensifies the flavor of the flesh, while careful butchering techniques and tightly controlled conditions keep the fish from rotting. The aged albacore is served raw and diced, its texture fatty and its flavor pure and lean. Traditionally meat-focused chef obsessions — offal, dry aging, whole animal cookery — are here applied to seafood.On any given night, you might find five varieties of Australian oyster, a live scallop from Victoria’s Port Phillip Bay and two kinds of sea urchin roe. Spanner crab from Ballina in northern New South Wales has had its sweet meat picked and served in its own shell, in a pool of coral sauce — sauce, that is, made from its roe. The pure sweetness of the crab meat and the deep funk of the sauce are like crab to the power of crab: crab squared.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This is the one realm that Australian restaurants dominate, with the breadth and quality of our seafood, and the inventiveness with which it is handled by Australian chefs. The United States, in particular, has a dearth of exciting modern seafood restaurants. I have long suspected that this has as much to do with kitchen dynamics as with ingredients or creativity, and is perhaps a side effect of the dude-food revolution.AdvertisementTwo decades ago, there was a balance in many American professional kitchens, a symmetry between the delicacy of the sauté station, where pans are used, and the brawn of the grill, where direct heat is king. The beautifully browned, melting-in-the-middle piece of pan-cooked fish used to be a staple of New American menus. But then the offal trend took off, and wood-fired meat assumed command.AdvertisementNow, when you find fish on New American menus, the trend is toward crudo or whole-roasted preparations. There are exceptions, of course, but most American restaurants that bill themselves as seafood specialists are trading in nostalgia, either for New England crab shacks or grand oyster houses.For some reason, the kitchens of Australia have not endured quite the same fate. Charcuterie and offal and meaty overload reign here, too. But this country’s seafood prowess is remarkably strong because nuanced fish cookery never went out of style.Nowhere is that more apparent than at Saint Peter, where Josh Niland takes the bro-chef love of offal and elegantly applies it to aquatic ingredients. This modest chef-owned storefront restaurant in Paddington is a bit of an anomaly; flashy restaurant groups dominate Sydney’s dining scene. But Mr. Niland, who was only 27 when he opened Saint Peter in mid-2016, gained his most significant experience at Fish Face Dining under Steve Hodges, a chef and owner who was vocal about the creative freedom of being one’s own boss.Mr. Niland quickly learned that being self-employed has its unique challenges, many of them financial in nature. His cooking style is inspired by a chef’s desire to showcase lesser-known seafood varieties and flavors (you are far more likely to find wild kingfish on this menu than salmon or even barramundi), but also by an owner’s concern that every unused part of an ingredient is money lost.The chef takes inspiration from Japanese cuisine and its love of fish bits, and he hopes to prove that they can be pleasurable to a Western palate. This is not a restaurant where the food feels like a dare. It would be easy to focus on the eyeballs — which, once turned into a chip, have much in common with a prawn cracker — and miss Mr. Niland’s greatest strength: the clever simplicity of his cooking.Maray — small, oily fish with shiny silver skin — are filleted raw, lined up on a plate, drizzled with oil and seasoned with salt and pepper. They are then placed under the heat lamp just long enough that they arrive on the table at around the same temperature as the inside of your mouth. The slight warming and slick of oil make for a slippery velvet texture, and the fish’s being neither cold nor hot — neither raw nor cooked — is like a magic trick that amplifies purity of flavor. It is one of those dishes that works like a lightning bolt; suddenly you understand important truths that you previously did not.The space, too, is beautifully simple. Brick walls and bare wooden tables lead to an open kitchen at the back of the room that’s not so open it intrudes on your lunch or dinner. There are thoughtful, agreeable wines to be drunk, and a short beer list peppered with great discoveries from small Australian breweries. Like everything here, even the low-acid, high-flavor vegetable accompaniments are geared toward heightening our understanding and appreciation of the seafood.AdvertisementI have been racking my brain trying to think of an American restaurant that comes close to the inventiveness and deep consideration that seafood is afforded at Saint Peter, to no avail. Sure: Japan is better at traditional raw seafood, and Rene Redzepi can probably do things with a rare Nordic crab that would make me weep fat tears of joy. But Saint Peter is proof that when it comes to the modern dedicated seafood restaurant, Australia does it best.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Times’s Australia bureau would love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.362 Oxford StreetPaddington, Australia02 8937 2530websiteRecommended Dishes Fresh oysters and other raw seafood; raw diced aged albacore; hand-filleted Yamba maray; fish and chips of the day; blue mackerel with sweet and sour radicchio.Price $$$ (expensive)Open Monday to Sunday for dinner; Friday to Sunday for lunch.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access Dining room is wheelchair accessible, but the bathroom is not; no handrail in the bathroom.
                This information was last updated: Jan. 4, 2018 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Mary ZieglerThe events planned to mark the 45th anniversary of Roe v. Wade have one main thing in common: They focus on abortion. In protesting Roe this year, March for Life celebrated a record low abortion rate, proclaiming that “love saves lives.” California lawmakers introduced a resolution last year describing Roe as “the cornerstone of women’s ability to control their reproductive lives.”But as the nation again considers the legacy of the country’s best-known Supreme Court decision, issued on Jan. 22, 1973, we have mostly forgotten part of the story of Roe v. Wade — one almost entirely disconnected from abortion. In the 1970s and beyond, Americans used Roe to answer much larger questions: What does the right to privacy mean, and who can claim that right?Because we so often identify Roe with a woman’s right to choose, we forget that the original decision attracted the ire of feminists who believed that the court had focused too little on women’s interests in fertility control. The court held that the right to privacy was broad enough to encompass a woman’s decision, with her doctor, to terminate her pregnancy. The justices also reasoned that the government’s interest in protecting fetal life did not become compelling until the point of viability.But why wield the court’s decision as a weapon for social change? Most scholars agreed that Roe was a poorly reasoned opinion. What was the appeal for grass-roots activists?The answer is that Roe’s definition of privacy seemed different. More than other Supreme Court decisions, it connected privacy to ideas about individual identity and choice. Whatever the flaws of the original decision, many hoped to use it to redefine who was thought to have autonomy and why.Civil libertarians, feminists and supporters of L.G.B.T. rights argued that the right to privacy stated in the abortion decision covered other decisions about sexual intimacy. The American Civil Liberties Union used Roe in defending sex workers, gays and lesbians, porn stars and women cohabiting with their boyfriends.Conservatives as well as liberals invoked this newly articulated right to privacy. With the spread of computers, politicians like Barry Goldwater and his son, the former Republican representative Barry Goldwater Jr., pointed to Roe in demanding privacy protections for personal information.Champions of consumers’ rights read the abortion decision as suggesting that patients could choose any course of treatment, including unproven alternative remedies. Those seeking a right to die used it in the fight for autonomy at the end of life.For more than a decade, Roe appealed to different groups exploring the untapped potential of the right to privacy. People on both the right and the left saw possible connections between privacy and individual interests in conscientious objection, self-determination and equal treatment.So how did one decision 45 years ago become synonymous with abortion and nothing else? In part, other privacy fights fizzled when the coalitions backing new rights collapsed. Feminists and libertarians clashed about the line between sexual coercion and sexual privacy. Those who hoped to expand data privacy disagreed about when the government had a good enough reason to collect personal data.Abortion foes and Republican politicians consciously tried to redefine Roe, equating the decision with abortion and judicial activism. Ronald Reagan had to assure social conservatives that he would pick federal judges who opposed abortion, but he also consistently promised to select nominees based on their accomplishments and judicial philosophy. Labeling Roe an activist decision helped Reagan and other Republicans strike this balance.Abortion opponents initially did not take much interest in arguments about judicial activism, seeing them as a distraction from the fight for an amendment that would ban all abortions. But by the 1980s, it was obvious that a fetal rights amendment would not pass soon. Delegitimizing Roe suddenly seemed an important step toward the movement’s new goal of overruling the 1973 decision.On Roe’s 45th anniversary, we should stop to think about where the right to privacy stands today. The picture does not seem very rosy. Since the new year, there have been fresh concerns about data breaches and the misuse of digital information by giants like Facebook and Google. Privacy and conscience have taken center stage as the Supreme Court considers whether a Christian baker can refuse to serve a same-sex couple. It is easy to believe that the right to privacy is ineffective, more likely to shore up a dissatisfying status quo.But part of Roe’s legacy is the many ways conservatives and liberals once reimagined the right to privacy. Social movements hardly felt constrained by what the Supreme Court had written.Some pointed to privacy not just in asking for freedom from the government but also in demanding financial support from the state. Others asked not just to be left alone behind closed doors but also to get respect for relationships in public. People tried to use the right to privacy to transform attitudes about sexuality, death and the collection of digital data.Americans have rethought the right to privacy before. There is no reason we couldn’t do it again.Mary Ziegler is a professor of law at Florida State University and the author of “Beyond Abortion: Roe v. Wade and the Battle for Privacy.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Margaret RenklNASHVILLE — Word came last week that Rivendell Writers’ Colony in Sewanee, Tenn., will be closing at the end of March. When I first heard the news, I wept. I was not alone.Sewanee, on top of Monteagle Mountain not far from Chattanooga, is barely a pinprick on the map — less a town than a crossroads where the gas station doubles as the local grocery store. It is also the home of the University of the South, a liberal-arts college tucked into 13,000 acres on the southern end of the Cumberland Plateau. Thanks to a bequest from the playwright Tennessee Williams, Sewanee occupies an outsize place in the Southern literary landscape.Williams left his entire estate to the university, stipulating that the bequest be used to foster literature, and Sewanee has become a literary center for the entire region. Beneficiaries of Williams’s estate include the university’s theater department; the Sewanee Writers’ Conference; the Sewanee School of Letters, a graduate program in literature and creative writing; and The Sewanee Review, the oldest continuously published literary quarterly in the country.Unrelated to the Williams bequest but benefiting from its proximity is Rivendell, which opened in 2013 on the site of a former summer camp for girls. The wooded campus — a large manor house and several cottages connected by trails — is perched on a bluff overlooking Lost Cove, one of the most biodiverse tracts of land in the country. Rivendell is a place of otherworldly loveliness, of bone-penetrating quiet and peace. Walker Percy wrote his first novel nearby at a desk overlooking Lost Cove.Three years ago I arrived “on the mountain,” as they say around here, for my first weekend at Rivendell. I have a graduate degree in creative writing and spent a dozen years making my living as a writer, but by the time I got to Rivendell I was working as an editor and had written hardly a word of my own in years. I was exhausted by caregiving — by raising children and simultaneously tending needy elders — and I longed for an uninterrupted chance to read and write and walk in the woods.By the time I left two days later, I’d finished a draft of the first essay I published in this newspaper. That essay is also the centerpiece of an essay collection to be published next year, a book entirely written or revised at Rivendell over the last three years. Becoming a debut author at the age of 57 is nothing less than a miracle, and it’s not too much to say that this work would not exist if it weren’t for Rivendell Writers’ Colony.I’ve come to think of Rivendell as my spiritual home, and of Carmen Toussaint, Rivendell’s executive director, as a kind of literary midwife. Toussaint’s preternatural calm and kindness make it possible to move past the anxiety and despair endemic to writers, and her gift for unintrusive organization is the invisible scaffolding that has kept the place running and made it possible for writers to settle in and write.As news that the Rivendell campus would soon become a “center for spiritual healing and exploration” made its way across the literary South, authors took to email and social media to mourn its loss. “Rivendell is already a spiritual healing and exploration center,” wrote Karen Hayes, co-owner (with the novelist Ann Patchett) of Parnassus Books in Nashville, on Facebook. “That is the power of the written word, whether it is through the creation of a work of literature, or the reading of it.”“I was devastated to hear that Rivendell — Walker Percy’s former stomping grounds — is closing its doors,” emailed Jamie Quatro, author of the new novel “Fire Sermon.”“Authors typically thank people and institutions at the rear of a book,” John T. Edge, founder of the Southern Foodways Alliance, said in a phone call. “For ‘The Potlikker Papers,’ I thanked Rivendell at the front. It mattered that much.”Unlike storied writers’ colonies like Yaddo and MacDowell, Rivendell has always welcomed writers at the start of their careers, with young poets and short-story writers sharing space with best-selling novelists and established nonfiction authors. “I was 24 hours into a stay at Rivendell when I finally worked out the arc of my book,” the essayist Mary Laura Philpott wrote in an email. “Maybe it seems silly to think it took sitting in a silent house in the middle of nowhere for that to happen, but that’s the gift Rivendell gave me.”In a painful irony of timing, Ms. Philpott sold her first essay collection three days before Rivendell announced it was closing.It’s tempting to assume that the closing of a writers’ colony is a sign of its failure. But as a news release makes clear, the opposite is true: Rivendell is “one of the nation’s most cherished residency programs for authors,” the announcement reads. “In five years, we have helped hundreds of writers reach countless readers.”In fact, the benefactor who founded and has been underwriting Rivendell’s literary mission has simply changed her mind. She has every right to do that, of course. It’s her property and her money.But it’s also a catastrophic loss to the literary life of this region, and it highlights the downside of relying exclusively on private philanthropy to support the arts in these troubled times. A generous and forward-looking benefactor is an incalculable gift to any nonprofit organization, but the most generous benefactor can’t provide the stability of a National Endowment for the Arts or a National Endowment for the Humanities. The most forward-looking benefactor can’t be relied on the way institutional support from a university or foundation can.There’s a reason Tennessee Williams left his estate to a college and not to a human being, even a visionary human being. Here’s hoping Sewanee — or another institution unwavering in its commitment to literature — can step up to recreate this necessary incubator for the literary arts on a mountain in Tennessee.Margaret Renkl is a contributing opinion writer and the editor of Chapter 16, a publication of Humanities Tennessee.Advertisement

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
JAN. 21, 2018
Good morning! I’ve got a new “Eat” column for you to read today, about how I tried to make a little savory treat I had not long ago at the French Laundry in Yountville, Calif., and about how it turned out great, but how in the end the dinner that followed — a meal one of the kids got me to cook, her riffing off the memory of something her friend made recently and me taking instruction at the stove — was transcendent. That is the way of the world, sometimes. We aim for one thing in our cooking. Then another thing brings the thrill. Who knew?Of course we ginned up a proper recipe for it: risotto with sausage and parsley. I think you should make that tonight. It is home cooking at its best, a dish that’s ideal to make with friends or family crowded tight in the kitchen, everyone talking and talking as you stir and stir.Then, on Monday night, I like the idea of soup, and a vegetarian soup at that. Our pal Alison Roman gave us two to consider. One’s for a fine recipe for broccoli and Cheddar soup that tastes of like what you always think this soup should taste of when you’re on the road and order it off the menu at the only restaurant open near the hotel: broccoli and cheese. (At the restaurant, invariably, it tastes only of salt.) It’s so good.The other is for a vegetarian tortilla soup that draws a lot of flavor from canned chipotles in adobo, and spreads it through tomatoes and corn. Lots of raw crisp onion and cilantro and a handful of fried tortilla strips added at the end add texture, and brightness. Top with crema, cheese and some squeezed lime juice.AdvertisementEither way, you should keep up the Roman theme for dessert, and try Alison’s crazily good recipe for salted chocolate chunk shortbread cookies, a highlight of her excellent new cookbook, “Dining In: Highly Cookable Recipes.”AdvertisementTuesday you might consider Moroccan-style smothered chicken with a whole lot of olives, a recipe Alex Witchel secured from the great Paula Wolfert back in 2002. I think it would be very nice with an herb-flecked rice pilaf.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For Wednesday, for many the hardest cooking night of the week, you can take it easy and make this adaptation of Jamie Oliver’s recipe for creamy pasta with smoked bacon and peas (get double-smoked bacon if you can!). Or, look, you can give yourself permission to order a grandma pie from your favorite pizzeria, eat it with their vinegar-soaked Italian salad and watch “Fearless” on Amazon Prime. I do not judge. That’s a good meal.Thursday night: shrimp alla marinara, I think. (With Samin Nosrat’s herbed garlic bread for the win!)And then on Friday you can celebrate week’s end with Melissa Clark’s pan-seared steak with red-wine sauce and Gabrielle Hamilton’s pommes Anna right next to it. (You fancy, huh?)Approximately a gajillion other recipes to cook this week are available at NYT Cooking. Go take a look and see what you find. Then cook! You can always get in touch with us if something goes wrong. We’re at cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll get back to you.Now, what are you doing next weekend? The Boat Show is at the Javits Center here in New York, and I’d love to go see if Frank Crescitelli’s going to be there with the beautiful Buddy Davis boats he reps, with their wide Carolina flare. But that’s just me, and anyway I can’t go because I’ll be working those days at The New York Times Travel Show in the same building.Come see me and my Times colleagues if you’re in town. We’ll be interviewing a whole bunch of interesting people on stage, among them: Andrew Zimmern, Action Bronson, Zac Posen, the Ghetto Gastro crew, Claudia Wu and Angela Dimayuga. You can register here. Use the code NYTCOOK to get $5 off admission. Say hi!Or just stay home and read. Dwight Garner has us melancholy-hyped to get started on Denis Johnson’s posthumous collection of short stories, “The Largesse of the Sea Maiden.” And I missed Lauren Collins’s piece in The New Yorker about the French novelist Leila Slimani; it makes me want to start “The Perfect Nanny” maybe even before the Johnson. So there is much to do in coming days. Let’s get to it!AdvertisementFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 22, 2018
Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Andrew is in Davos, Switzerland and will file dispatches from the World Economic Forum.• Charles Kushner speaks about his son and the Russia investigation.• Big deals today by A.I.G. and Celgene show a desire for growth.• The government is still shut down.• Facebook is doing some existential thinking.Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.Here’s a preview of Andrew’s column on Davos and Mr. Trump, assuming that the president will still leave Washington for the Swiss Alps:It is both speed-dating at high altitude for the cognoscenti and a cerebral high-minded affair filled with panel conversations around issues such as gender diversity, harassment, artificial intelligence and the environment. The official theme this year is “Creating a shared future in a fractured world.”All of which makes Mr. Trump the anti-Davos Man.“Trump is as loathed by the elites of Western Europe as he is by the elites of Manhattan,” said Niall Ferguson, a senior fellow of the Hoover Institution, at Stanford University and a longtime Davos attendee who is taking this year off.Meanwhile, Davos Men and Women are thinking about what they got wrong about Mr. Trump.Who from the White House is supposed to be attendingAdvertisement• Seven cabinet secretaries, led by Steven Mnuchin• Jared Kushner and the F.D.A. commissioner, Scott GottliebAdvertisement• John Kelly, H.R. McMaster and Gary Cohn (if Mr. Trump goes)That’s a big delegation for a populist leader to send to a hotbed of global elitism.Hot topics at Davos• Populism — though, Mr. Trump aside, anxiety is on the wane (NYT)• How long the world’s economies can continue to expand (NYT)• How to respond to cyberwarfare by the likes of North Korea (NYT)• How to improve women’s standing in the world, with several top women leaders in attendance (NYT)• Big tech companies’ image woes (FT)• France’s efforts to woo business leaders, including a pre-Davos summit at Versailles that will be attended by Jamie Dimon and Sheryl Sandberg (Reuters)Bacardi has agreed to buy Patron Spirits International for $5.1 billion, the WSJ’s Carla Lombardo reports.The deal between the two privately held companies ranks as one of the biggest liquor deals in recent years.Why Bacardi is doing the deal according to the WSJ:• “U.S. volumes of super-premium tequila jumped more than 700% from 2002 to 2016, compared with a 121% rise in all tequila volumes over the same period, according to the Distilled Spirits Council.”Advertisement• Patrón is the premium tequila market leader with U.S. sales of $1.6 billion in 2016, according to Euromonitor, a market research firm.We here at DealBook will forgive if you don’t. It has been a long time.With Monday’s close, the S&P 500 has now gone 395 sessions without a decline of 5% or more from a record high, MoneyBeat’s Ben Eisen reports. That’s the longest streak on record, surpassing the previous record of 394 trading days set in the mid-1990s.So when was the last time the market fell 5 percent from a recent high? The aftermath of Brexit in June 2016.Kate Kelly of NYT reports that six weeks after firing the former congressman Harold E. Ford Jr. for unspecified misconduct, Morgan Stanley has clarified that the misconduct was not sexual in nature.The statement is part of a legal settlement that Mr. Ford reached over the weekend with Morgan Stanley, according to a person who was briefed on the resolution but was not authorized to speak publicly. The broader contours of the settlement were unclear, including whether there was a financial component. Through a spokesman, Mr. Ford declined to comment.Before his firing last month, Mr. Ford had spent seven years at Morgan Stanley recruiting clients. He joined the investment banking industry after losing a United States Senate race in Tennessee as the Democratic nominee in 2006.Mr. Ford, 47, was fired after a female journalist told Morgan Stanley that he had harassed her at a dinner in 2014. At the time, Morgan Stanley said he had been fired “for conduct inconsistent with our values and in violation of our policies.” Some media reports of his firing said it had been triggered by the harassment allegation.Since Mr. Loeb’s Third Point emerged as an investor in the Swiss food giant, Nestlé has sold off its U.S. confectionary business, named new directors and bought Blue Bottle coffee.AdvertisementAll of those have been great moves, according to the hedge fund. But there’s more to be done, Third Point wrote in its latest letter to investors.From the investor letter:These actions are important steps in the right direction that make it clear that Nestlé is responding to calls for action. While we recognize that Nestlé has certain unique cultural and structural constraints, we hope now that Dr. Schneider has completed his first year and there is new blood on the Board, the company is able to move with greater alacrity.What Third Point wants• Better demonstrate that the company is focused on “nutrition, health and wellness,” with the implication being to divest products like ice cream and frozen pizza.• Buy back more shares.• Again consider selling the L’Oreal stake, something Nestlé has been loath to do historically.— Michael J. de la MercedThe father of Jared Kushner, who is again working at the family real estate business — this time without a title — told the WaPo in an interview that the Kushner Companies hasn’t been a target of the Russia investigation so far and hasn’t had problems getting financing.More from the article by Michael Kranish of the WaPo:“All I know is that we are not at all concerned, and we are cooperating,” Kushner said in a half-hour interview at his headquarters at 666 Fifth Avenue. “And they can knock themselves out for the next 10 years reading those papers as far as I’m concerned.”The elder Mr. Kushner also lamented the amount of criticism that his son, a senior presidential adviser, has taken:“I try not to focus in my life on the haters but it’s just, I have never seen anything like this,” Kushner said. — Michael J. de la MercedThe insurer’s $5.56 billion deal to acquire Validus Holdings signals that the company is increasingly looking outward, instead of inward, as it had done since its bailout during the global financial crisis. Validus is A.I.G.’s biggest acquisition by far over the past decade, according to Standard & Poor’s Global Market Intelligence.The transaction is expected to bolster the A.I.G.’s general insurance business, by adding a reinsurance platform, an insurance-linked securities asset manager and “a meaningful presence” at the Lloyd’s of London marketplace.Here’s what Brian Duperreault, A.I.G.’s chief executive, said:“Validus is an excellent strategic fit for AIG, bringing new businesses and capabilities to our General Insurance operation, expanding the bench of our management team and deepening our underwriting expertise.”The details• Validus shareholders would receive $68 a share in cash.• Shares of Validus closed Friday at $46.72, meaning the deal represents a 46 percent premium.• The transaction is expected to close in mid-2018.The advisersFor A.I.G.: Citigroup, Perella Weinberg Partners and the law firm Debevoise & PlimptonAdvertisementFor Validus: JPMorgan Chase and the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom— Chad BrayIn offering to buy the Juno shares that it doesn’t already own for about $9 billion, Celgene is adding a maker of blood disease treatments. Perhaps more notably, it shows that the biopharmaceutical company is still on the hunt for more acquisitions.Remember that earlier this month, Celgene agreed to pay up to $7 billion for Impact Biomedicines, which also makes a treatment for a kind of blood cancer.Celgene, which is based in Summit, N.J., already owns about 9.7 percent of Juno’s shares.Here’s what Mark Alles, Celgene’s C.E.O., said:“The acquisition of Juno builds on our shared vision to discover and develop transformative medicines for patients with incurable blood cancers.”The details• Celgene would pay $87 a share in cash for each share of Juno.• Juno’s shares closed on Friday at $67.81, meaning the deal is at a 28 percent premium.• The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter.The advisersFor Celgene: JPMorgan and the law firms Proskauer Rose and Hogan LovellsFor Juno: Morgan Stanley and the law firm Skadden— Chad BrayFrom a recent note by analysts at Pantheon Macroeconomics:We would be astonished if Congress could not cobble together a majority of the sane in order to prevent a default. But astonishment has been quite common in response to events over the past couple of years, so investors would be well-advised to rule out nothing, however outlandish.Here’s more on the damage from a prolonged shutdown from the NYT.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Where things standA group of moderate lawmakers is still working on a compromise. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, has scheduled a vote on a temporary funding bill for noon E.T. today, though it’s unclear whether it will pass.Elsewhere in Washington• Wilbur Ross has fallen from Mr. Trump’s graces because of a perceived inability to strike good trade deals and a propensity to sleep in meetings. (Axios)Advertisement• How Jared Kushner became a focal point for China’s diplomatic outreach to the U.S. — and stirred up the worries of U.S. officials. (New Yorker)• Deutsche Bank has flagged bank accounts tied to the Kushner family for “suspicious transactions” and referred the matter to German authorities — and may send its information to Robert Mueller as well, according to Manager Magazin of Germany. (Manager, Mother Jones)The tax overhaul signed into law last month is muddying the fourth-quarter earnings picture.Improving corporate profit have been a pillar of the current rally, and analysts have forecast robust earnings growth in the coming months as the global economy gained momentum.Yet with 11 percent of S&P 500 companies having reported four-quarter results, profits have slipped 0.2 percent from a year ago. That’s well below the 10 percent analysts expected ahead of earnings season.So what gives? The tax law.Large financial firms, which have made up the bulk of companies reporting thus far, have taken big one-time, tax-related charges. Profits for financial firms in the S&P 500 fell $29.2 billion, or 57 percent. Citigroup accounted for 73 percent of that decline. John Butters, a senior earnings analyst at FactSet, writes:“Prior to the earnings release, many analysts had not updated their EPS estimates to reflect the impact of the charge. However, since the majority of analysts covering Citigroup provide EPS estimates to FactSet on a GAAP basis, the tax charge was included in the actual EPS for comparison.”Exclude Citi, and the earnings growth rate for the S&P 500 would improve to 7.9 percent from -0.2 percent.Two points of note:• “While some of the biggest banks are reporting fourth-quarter earnings hits stemming from the new tax law, they see rich benefits over the long term, including effective tax rates that are even lower than the new 21 percent corporate rate,” as NYT’s Jim Tankersley reported last week.• As the fourth-quarter earnings growth rate has fallen over the last week for S&P 500 companies, profit expectations for 2018 have risen.Here’s what Samidh Chakrabarti, a product manager at the tech giant, wrote in a post on the company’s Hard Questions blog:Facebook was originally designed to connect friends and family — and it has excelled at that. But as unprecedented numbers of people channel their political energy through this medium, it’s being used in unforeseen ways with societal repercussions that were never anticipated.Mr. Chakrabarti added that while the company was slow to address Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, it’s working to prevent it happening again.AdvertisementMore news from Facebook• It spooked some publishers again by saying it would let users rank the trustworthiness of news outlets. (NYT)• And its recent News Feed changes may reflect its video ambitions, some ad agencies said. (NYT)The tech flyaround• SoFi is courting Anthony Noto, Twitter’s chief operating officer, who is its most senior full-time employee. (Recode, WSJ)• Inside Amazon Go, the e-commerce giant’s cashierless Seattle store, where our colleague tried unsuccessfully to shoplift in the name of journalism. (NYT)• Marc Benioff of Salesforce said of noxious cultures at start-ups, “When I see that product is the number-one thing, the only thing that matters, that’s a real red flag.” (FT)• Tim Cook, visiting a school in Britain, told pupils he wouldn’t let his nephew use social media. (Guardian)• The luxury goods maker Richemont offered as much as $3.4 billion to buy the rest of Yoox Net-a-Porter. (NYT)• Archer Daniels Midland has made a takeover approach to the agriculture trader Bunge, potentially creating a showdown with Glencore, according to unidentified sources. (WSJ)Advertisement• Elliott Management is pushing for a higher takeover price for Starz than the $4.4 billion Lionsgate agreed last year. (NYP)• The French drug maker Sanofi will buy Bioverativ, which makes a hemophilia drug, for more than $11.5 billion. (WSJ)• Carl Icahn has teamed up with Xerox’s third-biggest investor, Darwin Deason, to push for a sale, according to unidentified sources. (WSJ)• Ferrero’s $2.8 billion deal to buy Nestlé’s U.S. confectionary brands is a clear sign of a generational and cultural change at the Italian company. (FT)It’s Tiger Global. The American hedge fund has quietly acquired a 2.5 percent stake in Barclays, worth more than $1 billion, according to the FT.More from the FT’s Martin Arnold and Miles Johnson:Tiger Global appears to back Mr. Staley’s view that the bank’s 40 percent discount to book value is unjustified after it recently completed its multiyear restructuring and sold off most of its African operation to address longstanding concerns about its capital levels.UBS’s turnaround hits a bumpThe Swiss bank reported 488 million Swiss francs ($508 million) in fourth-quarter pretax income, missing analyst expectations.Omeed Malik, one of Bank of America’s top liaisons to the hedge fund world and a confidant of Jon Corzine, has left the firm after an internal investigation into a young female analyst’s accusation of inappropriate sexual conduct.More from Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Matt Goldstein of the NYT:Officials from human resources interviewed as many as a dozen people who have worked with Mr. Malik. He left roughly two weeks before annual bonuses were to be handed out.Why haven’t more Wall Street cases come to light? Arbitration, primarily. But a discrimination lawyer told the WSJ, “We’re getting quadruple the calls ever since Harvey Weinstein.”AdvertisementThe misconduct flyaround• How to practice so-called gender-lens investing and support women in the workplace. (CNBC)• The Sundance Film Festival, Harvey Weinstein’s old stomping ground, is now a showcase for women. (NYT)• Representative Patrick Meehan, a Pennsylvania Republican who has taken a leading role in fighting sexual harassment in Congress, used taxpayer money to settle a misconduct complaint of his own. (NYT)Right now, the computation to “produce” a new Bitcoin uses as much energy as an American household consumes in two years, according to analysts at Morgan Stanley and the economist Alex de Vries. Some in the virtual currency community are looking for ways to reduce that figure.Here’s what Vitalik Buterin, the creator of Ethereum, told Nathaniel Popper of the NYT:“I would personally feel very unhappy if my main contribution to the world was adding Cyprus’s worth of electricity consumption to global warming.”Some, however, say an independent, decentralized monetary system is worth the cost.The virtual currency flyaround• Louis Dreyfus has teamed up with ING and ABN Amro of the Netherlands and Société Générale of France to create a blockchain platform for agricultural trading. (Bloomberg)• Bitcoin could lose 90 percent of its current value, predicts Peter Boockvar, a veteran Wall Street investor. (CNBC)“I truly believe I was put on this Earth to make money, but also to be generous with it.”— T. Boone Pickens to the NYT, as the investing tycoon steps back from business and focuses on philanthropy.to tosaleWe’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj ChokshiIt seems every few weeks another challenge takes social media by storm.Some, like the “Ice Bucket Challenge,” promote a cause. Others, like the bottle-flipping craze, are benign. But then there are those fads that are ill-informed or, worse, dangerous.The latest, the “Tide pod challenge,” belongs in that category. It involves biting down on a brightly colored laundry detergent packet of any brand and spitting out or ingesting its contents, an act that poses serious health risks.YouTube and Facebook said they will remove material showing people who have recorded themselves performing the challenge. Tide released a video in which Rob Gronkowski of the New England Patriots discouraged the practice.What should Tide PODs be used for? DOING LAUNDRY. Nothing else.Eating a Tide POD is a BAD IDEA, and we asked our friend @robgronkowski to help explain. pic.twitter.com/0JnFdhnsWZHere’s a look at how an improbable idea promoted on the internet has become a cause for genuine concern.Fads like the Tide challenge lend themselves to exaggeration, so it’s wise to be wary of alarmist warnings not backed up by evidence.In this case, however, data suggests a shift in recent weeks, particularly among teenagers.In the first half of January, poison control centers handled 39 cases in which teenagers were intentionally exposed to the detergent packets. That was as many as in all of 2016, the American Association of Poison Control Centers said. Last year, poison control centers handled 53 such cases, the group said in a news release.The problem is more serious for young children. Last year, centers received 10,570 reports of children 5 or younger being exposed to the packets, the group said. Details on the severity of the injuries were unavailable.The health risks have been around nearly as long as the detergent packets themselves. Tide, for example, began selling its pods in February 2012, according to the company. About a year later, federal consumer safety officials were compelled to warn families that children find such packets appealing.The companies that make the packets use different formulas, but one thing is clear: They contain more than just soap, said Dr. Diane Calello, the medical director of the New Jersey Poison Information and Education System at the Rutgers New Jersey Medical School.Highly concentrated detergent and a variety of chemicals are inside, depending on the brand, she said. Tide pods contain 90 percent active ingredients and 10 percent water, according to the company. A dissolvable covering holds it all in.“What we’ve seen is when children or adults bite into these things that moisture-sensitive membranes basically just disintegrates and the contents explode inside your mouth,” she said in a phone interview.That’s when the pain sets in. The chemicals cause severe burns to the mouth, esophagus or respiratory tract, she said, adding that some very young and very old patients with cognitive issues have been rushed to emergency rooms or even died as a result of eating the packets.“This is not something I would put anywhere near someone’s mouth,” she said.The origins and inspiration of the challenge are murky, but jokes have circulated online about the temptation of a product that is known to be dangerous but that bears a resemblance to brightly colored candy.In late 2015, the satirical publication The Onion published commentary from a child’s perspective in which he vowed to consume one.“From the very second I saw those blue and red detergent pods come out of that shopping bag last week, I knew immediately that, come hell or high water, I would eat one of those things,” he wrote.Last March, the comedy website CollegeHumor posted a video sketch in which a man agonized over his desire to eat the pods, which he compared to Gushers, the fruit snacks with a liquid center and chewy outer covering.In recent weeks, similar jokes have surfaced online featuring real or doctored images of the pods made to look like food, such as pizza toppings.Even a senator, Chuck Schumer of New York, once said he was tempted to eat a pod because of its bright colors. “I don’t know why they make them look so delicious,” he said at a 2012 news conference about their medical risks, according to The Daily News.If you or someone is exposed to detergent, it’s important to reach a medical expert right away, either by contacting a poison control center or a doctor.The American Association of Poison Control Centers also maintains a hotline, 1-800-222-1222, where experts are always available to field questions. You can also text “poison” to 797979.Advertisement

 Andrew Ross Sorkin
 

DEALBOOK
JAN. 1, 2018
Please take your seats.It is that time of year again: our annual closing dinner, where we look back at the year that was, to toast and roast the year’s deal makers on Wall Street and in Washington and look ahead to what may come next.And what a year it was.This year, we decided to hold our dinner at the Breakers in Palm Beach, Fla., just down the road from the Mar-a-Lago resort, better known as the Winter White House. Given that President Trump has spent nearly a third of his presidency — that’s not a typo — at one of his properties, as The Wall Street Journal reported, we figured we would try to make it convenient for him. There were a surprising number of free openings at Mar-a-Lago given all the cancellations by foundations and charities, but ever since an artist projected “Pay Trump Bribes Here” on the Trump International Hotel in Washington, our conflicts committee suggested that hosting the dinner at Mar-a-Lago would be a bad idea.We also figured holding the dinner in Florida would be convenient for so many of you moguls and machers already down here looking for real estate since the tax bill was signed into law. The other bonus of buying here, of course, is that your home is protected even if you file for bankruptcy.Sitting at the dais are Mr. Trump along with the first lady. (Ivanka, Jared and the rest of the family were away on vacation.) Next to him are Rupert Murdoch and his new B.F.F., Robert Iger of the Walt Disney Company, who just gave up any hope of running for president in 2020, a condition of his deal to buy most of 21st Century Fox’s assets. To their right are the chief negotiators for the tax plan: Gary Cohn and Steven Mnuchin (and Ms. Mnuchin’s wife, Louise Linton, who I should mention — and I’ll be sure to hashtag this on Instagram — is wearing a beautiful scarf from Hermes and gown by Valentino).AdvertisementThe seating chart is, of course, always a bit complicated. We had to keep Jeffrey Bezos of Amazon from the dais to prevent Mr. Trump’s Twitter war with him from interrupting the festivities. And we had heard that Mr. Bezos had a practical joke planned: He was going to tell Mr. Trump that he had chosen Mexico City as Amazon’s second headquarters.AdvertisementMasayoshi Son, SoftBank’s founder, is also here this year. He is seated at the Uber table, having just struck a deal to invest $9 billion in the company at a 30 percent discount to the company’s previous valuation of $68 billion, although he had also invested $1 billion at the company’s previous valuation to maintain the fiction that the company was still worth $68 billion. It’s been a tough year at the Uber table of frenemies: Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber’s new chief executive; Travis Kalanick, Uber’s founder; Arianna Huffington, an Uber board member; and Bill Gurley, one of Uber’s largest investors. To help keep the peace, we’ve invited a calming influence to sit with them: Anthony Scaramucci, the Mooch, who had his own tough year as the president’s director of communications for a hot minute.We had extended an invitation to Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, but our invitation was returned. When we tried to call him at the Ritz Carlton in Riyadh, otherwise known as the Royal Prison, we were told, “The hotel telephone lines are currently disconnected until further notice.” (By the way, that’s not a joke.)And then there is the Facebook table: Mark Zuckerberg is here this year along with Sheryl Sandberg. We’re sorry to say that Vladimir Putin could not make it. I jest! Sort of.Finally, we have the Bitcoin table: The Winklevoss twins, newly minted as Bitcoin billionaires (cut out the gloating and spitballs to the Facebook table, please) and Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive, who has said Bitcoin mania is “worse than tulip bulbs,” adding: “It won’t end well. Someone is going to get killed.” We’d love to hear the dinner conversation among you all.Now, on to the toasts of 2017.DEAL OF THE YEAR Amazon.com’s acquisition of Whole Foods came as a true surprise. The deal has the potential to truly accelerate Amazon’s march into our daily lives by giving it an even closer distribution point to our homes. It also was a signal to the rest of the marketplace that nothing is off limits. The betting line is that the next land grab for Amazon is pharmaceuticals, which may have driven CVS’s $68 billion bid for Aetna. Also, a postscript: One deal that has not received enough credit but that proved itself in 2017 was Walmart’s acquisition of Jet.com. The $3.3 billion acquisition of a money-losing site seemed like a mistake, but has breathed new life into Walmart’s e-commerce business.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.SURPRISE I.P.O. SUCCESS Roku, the streaming television company, went public, and its stock is up 280 percent, one of the highest increases of the year. The company is being compared to Netflix and is considered a pure-play bet on over-the-top streaming television services. A SIGN OF THE TOP? Blue Apron, a meal kit service, went public and quickly fell faster than Pets.com. Who thought that was a good idea?TRUMP WINNERS Stock investors were some of the biggest beneficiaries in 2017, with a rally that began when Mr. Trump won the presidency. On an individual basis, Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group gambled early and publicly on Mr. Trump, despite protests inside and outside his firm. It gave him a ringside seat to the White House last year. Saudi Arabia backed a new $40 billion infrastructure fund by the firm. And Mr. Schwarzman, like the entire private equity industry, was a beneficiary of the new tax plan, which kept carried interest taxed at capital gains rates with only a slight adjustment.AdvertisementMORAL C.E.O. WINNER Kenneth C. Frazier of Merck was the first chief executive on one of Mr. Trump’s councils to rebuke the president’s comments after violence in Charlottesville, Va. A wave of executives followed suit, but only after Mr. Frazier made the first move. That took real courage.TWITTER C.E.O. WINNER Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs won Twitter in 2017 with this witty tweet during the solar eclipse: “Wish the moon wasn’t the only thing casting a shadow across the country. We got through one, we’ll get through the other.”ENTREPRENEUR OF THE YEAR Say what you will about Elon Musk — he has fans and critics — but he again proved that he thinks differently. Sure, he introduced new Teslas and sent more rockets into space. But he also introduced perhaps his craziest idea: the Boring Company. Technically, he founded the company in December 2016, but it was during 2017 that we really learned about his ambitions: He wants to dig huge tunnels under the earth to create a patchwork of roadways. The economics and physics of it all have been questioned. But as a venture capitalist, Jason Calacanis, said this summer: “Betting against Elon Musk is betting against the future of humanity, and it’s an incredibly stupid thing to do.”THANK YOU OF THE YEAR Janet Yellen, the departing Federal Reserve chairwoman, deserves our genuine thanks for steering the economy successfully and overseeing a drop in the unemployment rate to levels not seen in decades. She took verbal abuse from our president, who called her “obviously political” before he was elected, only for him to double back and praise her once he realized that his economy was her economy, too.MOST IMPORTANT CHANGE IN BUSINESS The exposure of bad behavior by men toward women in the workplace — and elsewhere — throughout virtually all industries was perhaps the most important and profound story of the year. It has already shaken up a multitude of businesses, and more revelations are likely to come. Its impact on our culture and office politics will last far longer, hopefully, than anything else discussed at tonight’s dinner. QUESTION OF THE YEAR Why does the administration really want to block the AT&T-Time Warner deal? Of course, the speculation in media circles is it has to do with Mr. Trump’s war on CNN. That may or may not be true. But the president didn’t help himself when Sarah Huckabee Sanders quoted him as saying he supported a rival merger between Mr. Murdoch and Disney, saying that “this could be a great thing for jobs” when it plainly will result in layoffs.A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Raise a Glass To the Deals Of the Year.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Mustafa UmarANAHEIM, Calif. — Donald Trump’s inauguration took place on a Friday, the weekly holy day for Muslims. I’d been dreading it: We would have a new president, one who had threatened to shut down mosques and bar Muslims from entering the country. I knew I had to say something to make people feel better about it.I’m an imam at the Islamic Institute of Orange County. The members of my congregation here were worried: How would their lives change? Would President Trump follow through on his promises?As I prepared myself to head to the mosque that morning, I recalled the sermon I gave three days after the election. In November, the community was panicking. People regularly asked, “Sheikh Mustafa, is it time we leave this country?” One friend from the mosque told me sadly, “I can’t live anywhere else.” I told him that a Muslim prepares for the worst but hopes and prays for the best.Islam teaches us that life is a test of obedience to God and I counseled my community to view Mr. Trump’s election as a test of our patience: God wanted to see if we would endure this challenge, or fall into complaining and despair. Islam and the Quran teach us that when we encounter a challenge, we should try to benefit from it. The election, I hoped, could lead us to strive to be better as individuals and to improve society.Just a few hours after Mr. Trump was inaugurated, I stood before a crowd of about 2,000 Muslims from all walks of life, young and old, native-born Americans and immigrants from some two dozen countries. I reminded them that being a Muslim is about good character. We Muslims shouldn’t allow harsh words to get under our skin. We must not insult people who insult us because of our religion — and we must always be on our best behavior.The truth is, Muslims in America are held to a different standard. If, for example, a husband is seen yelling at his wife in a restaurant, people might think that he’s having a bad day, or he’s just a jerk. But if that same man appears to be a Muslim and his wife is wearing a head scarf, fellow diners might assume that the Quran told him to behave that way.That’s part of the burden of being Muslim in America today, even more so when those kinds of ideas are put forward by politicians. This situation may not be fair, I would tell the community, but it can present us with an opportunity to improve ourselves.After the inauguration, our mosque received notes, flowers and gifts. People in Anaheim wanted us to know that despite the messages coming from many voters and from Washington, we were welcome. One card read: “Having a mosque in my neighborhood helps make my neighborhood truly American. I am so proud and so grateful you are here. Please be of good cheer. You are not alone. You have friends. I am one of them.” I read the card aloud at the end of a sermon and posted it on Instagram and Facebook. This simple gesture gave us hope.Still, as a leader of a Muslim community, I could see that sometimes the climate of Islamophobia that Mr. Trump was creating was challenging believers. More than once over the past year, women in the congregation approached me to ask if they should stop wearing the hijab for fear of being harassed. I didn’t judge them for this, but it made me sad.We Muslims pray five times a day. Sometimes that means finding a spot in the mall or at a park to perform prayers. But I heard repeatedly from people who no longer felt safe doing so — or had internalized a feeling of shame after being repeatedly associated with extremists. I tried to remind them that there are 1.8 billion Muslims, and 99.99 percent of them are good, peaceful people.At the end of January, the president issued his first version of the “Muslim ban.” I went to Los Angeles International Airport to protest with a group organized by a Muslim civil rights organization. We expected to find maybe a few hundred people there; instead, there were thousands — most of them not Muslims — holding signs that said things like “Muslims are here to stay.” Seeing this kind of support gave me a sense of security and assured me that we would be just fine here in Southern California.The past year hasn’t always been easy, of course. There have been reports of an increase in hate crimes against Muslims. In November, the president retweeted anti-Muslim propaganda from a British hate group. Last month, the Supreme Court decided to let a new version of the travel ban take effect. But at those disheartening times, I remember — and remind others in the community — of the messages we heard from our neighbors, and those signs at the airport, held by people we’d never met: “Muslims are welcome here.”Mustafa Umar is the director of education and outreach at the Islamic Institute of Orange County.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement

 Farhad Manjoo
 

STATE OF THE ART
JAN. 3, 2018
Happy new year to you and yours, of course, but I’m going to have to put a halt to the festivities and play Frowning Farhad for a minute: You’re fooling yourself if you think 2018 is going to be any different, sanity- or anxiety-wise, from the roller coaster of the year just concluded.Sure, as in any year, a lot of good things could happen in 2018, and perhaps lots of bad things will happen, too. (How’s that for a prediction?) But there is a deeper and more unsettling certainty about the ride upon which we’ve all just embarked: A lot of probably very crazy things will happen in 2018.Get ready for even more events that don’t follow the rational course, and narratives that appear unmoored from the laws of politics, business and science. The background sensation of uncertainty that has pervaded much of the last two years isn’t going to abate. Just the opposite — my columnist’s Spidey sense tells me it’s only going to get worse. Strap in.Just a few years ago, there was a dawning sense that technology would give us a peek around the corner. Thanks to reams of information — sensors and surveillance everywhere, and computing capacity to make sense of it all — it looked as if we were entering a “Minority Report”-type world, where much of the future could be foretold in our numbers. Google could predict flu trends, election-stats nerds could predict political outcomes, and predictive policing algorithms were going to give us a handle on crime.AdvertisementYet what has happened is rather quite different. Instead of revealing unseen order and predictability in the world, technology has unleashed a cascade of forces that have made the world more volatile — and thus made the future hazier and more open to out-of-the-blue results.AdvertisementSome of this isn’t news. In 2016 and 2017, the world began to appreciate how smartphones and social networks can upend what we once considered the natural order. Tech has helped undercut the power of incumbent institutions — governments, political parties, the media, the patriarchy — and it has created a new class of geopolitical actors whose presence and ricocheting power we’re all still getting used to: trolls, terrorists, conspiracy theorists, social-media activists, hackers and cyptocurrency bugs, among others.These dynamics aided many of the biggest and most surprising stories in the last couple of years — Brexit, the election of Donald Trump, the emergent resistance movement against him, the #MeToo avalanche, the decline of Uber, the rise of Bitcoin.Yet even as a barrage of surprising stories plays out, many of us have yet to come to grips with the permanence of this chaos. People seem to have a latent, hopeful sense that things are going to calm down, that we’re on the cusp of a more normal news cycle. I suspect that’s wrong. Chaos is the new normal; the apprehension you feel every time you get a notification on your phone — the fear that you don’t know what fresh horror it could bring — isn’t an overreaction but an adaptation. Thanks to phones and Facebook, anything really could happen tomorrow.“I will tell you that as someone who does this professionally, my job has become a lot harder in the last few years,” said Amy Webb, a futurist who runs the Future Today Institute, a firm that helps big companies think about the possibilities of tomorrow.“There are just a lot more variables in play,” Ms. Webb said. “Think about how a single tweet from Donald Trump can have all these strange reverberations across the world. You can almost apply chaos theory to Donald Trump’s Twitter account.”The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.One of the touchstone ideas of chaos theory, which is the study of dynamic systems, is the “butterfly effect” — the idea that small changes in initial conditions can lead to huge differences in outcomes, like how a butterfly flapping its wings in Peru can cause a hurricane in Houston.Nowadays, because we’re hyperconnected, we see butterfly effects everywhere. A single confessional blog post by Susan Fowler, a former employee of the ride-hailing company Uber, led to a swirling online campaign that eventually brought down Travis Kalanick, Uber’s once indomitable chief executive — an outcome that, as far as I can tell, not a single observer of Uber predicted would happen long before it did.AdvertisementBut it’s not just that one-off stories cause huge cascades; it’s that in a connected world, there are now so many one-off stories capable of setting off cascades, and no one knows which ones will hit.Note how Mr. Trump was not brought down by the series of sexual harassment claims against him during the presidential campaign — and yet just a few months later, claims against a host of other powerful men spiraled into a culture-shaping movement that has upended many parts of the economy.To continue the butterfly-effect analogy: “It used to be that there were a trillion butterflies each in their own weather system, but we have now connected all those butterflies into one planetary weather system — and you never know which one is going to have some kind of autocatalytic effect, and which one isn’t,” said Alexander Rose, executive director of the Long Now Foundation, an organization that aims to promote a long-term outlook on the world.As if all that weren’t enough, there’s another complication to fold into the chaos: Technology isn’t stopping. The pace of technological change is in many cases too fast for anyone of us to comprehend or get used to; as a result, just as the world seems to get its head around one new force unleashed by tech, another comes along to discombobulate our efforts to respond to it.For example, in the last year and a half, social networks have tried several ways to tamp down the misinformation flowing online. Their efforts have been fitful at best, but already they risk being outdated. Soon artificial intelligence and augmented reality software will make it trivially easy to create not just text-based misinformation but entirely fake audio and video, too.Last year, researchers at the University of Washington used A.I. to scan through footage of Barack Obama speaking, giving them a way to put just about any words into the former president’s mouth. Someone else thought up a more vulgar way to show off similar tech — a fake pornographic video of the actress Gal Gadot.In the run-up to the 2018 election, Facebook, Twitter and other social networks have vowed to take on the kinds of misinformation and trolling that ran amok in 2016. But what if social media is hit with a wave of explosive, realistic-looking viral videos whose authenticity can’t be confirmed? It’s highly unlikely that the social networks, the news media or the political class will know how to respond to such a situation.Mr. Rose pointed out that in the long span of human history, periods of turbulence aren’t unusual; technological change often prompts social and political instability and unpredictability. What is unusual now is that many of us aren’t used to this sort of chaos.“I’m 39, about to turn 40, and people like me who came of age in America in the ’80s and ’90s, we got used to a fairly predictable world,” said Nate Silver, the founder of the data-news site FiveThirtyEight, whose uncannily accurate forecast of the 2012 presidential election while at The New York Times set off wide interest in data-based journalistic predictions.Advertisement“So I do think people are now realizing the world is less predictable than we thought it was,” Mr. Silver said. “But in some ways that’s a return to normal.”Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo.A version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: In 2018, Expect Chaos To Be the New Normal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ANDREW E. KRAMERJAN. 18, 2018
MOSCOW — In Russia, as in Texas and other energy-dependent regions around the globe, a rising tide (of oil) lifts all boats.That helps explain why on Thursday, as four American senators asked the State Department and other government agencies to blacklist two senior officials, the Russian stock market rose.It was not the prospect of more sanctions, of course, that was buoying the Moscow markets but the global price of oil, which has been soaring to heights not seen in several years.“Sanctions are important, that is for sure, especially for the market and for debt and equity investors, but for G.D.P. and the life of ordinary Russians, oil is far more important,” said Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Moscow, referring to Russia’s gross domestic product.AdvertisementRising global oil prices, which hit a three-year peak last week above $70 a barrel, are brightening Russia’s once gloomy outlook.AdvertisementGoldman Sachs has forecast economic growth of 3.3 percent for 2018, well above even the government’s own estimates. Consumer spending is picking up. Inflation has dropped to 2 percent, a level once unimaginable for Russia.For years, Russian government officials have argued that the country’s pariah status and Western sanctions were not having much effect.But in a sign of how quickly Russia’s economy has turned around, the country’s economic development minister wound up this week actually trying to tamp down what he described as too-rosy expectations of a strong recovery, such as the one outlined in the forecast by Goldman.“I think that, for now, there’s no basis for such optimism,” the minister, Maksim S. Oreshkin, told reporters at the Gaidar Forum, an annual economic conference in Moscow.To be sure, nobody is predicting a return to the oil boom years, and sanctions imposed by the European Union, the United States and other nations have hobbled important state-owned companies and banks.Yet the oil price rise in the first weeks of the year, if it persists, could shift the economic landscape for Russia and outweigh the ill effects of sanctions.The price rise so far, for example, is outweighing any negative effects on the Russian economy from the threat of new sanctions from the United States for the Kremlin’s election meddling.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In compliance with a law Congress passed last summer, the Treasury Department is expected to release on Jan. 29 a blacklist of Russian businessmen deemed close politically to President Vladimir V. Putin.AdvertisementOn Thursday, four Republican senators, Roger Wicker, Marco Rubio, Cory Gardner and Lindsey Graham, urged the State Department and other agencies to expand the blacklist with the inclusion of two senior business and government figures — Alisher B. Usmanov, a metals magnate and onetime investor in Facebook, and Yuri Y. Chaika, Russia’s prosecutor general.But the global price of petroleum products like oil and natural gas, which account for about 50 percent of Russia’s exports, has a greater sway over Russia’s economy than sanctions imposed after the Ukraine crisis and meddling in the American election, economists say.“Cheap loans are unavailable to most Russian companies,” because of sanctions, Aleksander Y. Abramov, a professor at the Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration, said in a telephone interview. “But that is a midterm problem. In the short term, the rising oil prices are a factor for growth.”Also, Russia’s economy grew last year despite a production-cutting agreement with the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. That deal remains in effect, but rising global oil prices suggest it could be unwound sometime this year, further helping Russia’s economy.In Russia, as in other petroleum-dependent countries, high oil prices have often proved to be a curse. With plenty of money, there is no incentive for the government to spur growth in nonnatural resource sectors, while the strong currency that comes with the influx of petrodollars makes it hard for other Russian industries to compete globally.Historically, periods of low oil prices have been associated with market liberalization in Russia, beginning with the Soviet-era reforms of perestroika and glasnost under Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the 1980s and continuing with the introduction of a flat tax and other business-friendly measures at the turn of the century.High oil prices, in contrast, have correlated with political repression and assertive foreign policy moves in Moscow, from the invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 to the war in Georgia in 2008 and the intervention in Ukraine in 2014.Unfortunately, from a Western perspective, that correlation seems to have broken down lately, with Mr. Putin steadfastly refusing to yield to Western pressures despite the three-year slump in oil prices.The average Russian is expected to benefit from the oil price rise in one direct way. After the presidential election in March, the government was expected to announce an unpopular overhaul of the pension system that analysts say is necessary for longer-term growth. Russia currently has one of the world’s lowest retirement ages, 55 for women and 60 for men. (At 71.87 years, it also has one of the developed world’s lowest life expectancies.)AdvertisementUnder new rules, the retirement age for men and women was set to rise to 65. That now seems less likely, as the government is predicting a budget surplus.A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Oil Prices Buoy Russia,  Despite West’s Sanctions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Hungry City By                     
LIGAYA MISHAN

JAN. 18, 2018

CreditYana Paskova for The New York Times        A friend once tried to order beignets in New Orleans that were “light on the sugar.” The waitress was perturbed. When the beignets arrived, they came with sugar on the side, in a bowl, two inches deep.Indigenous to New Orleans, beignets are of the same genus as doughnuts but a separate species: pieces of puffed-up fried dough with an airiness somewhere between buoyancy and levitation. They leave drifts of confectioners’ sugar in their wake.Matt Pace, who grew up in New Orleans East and moved to New York a decade ago to make a life as a painter, started frying up his hometown treat at outdoor food markets in 2014 under the name Booqoo Beignets. He taught kickboxing on the side (“I’ve had many lives,” he said with a laugh) and saved money toward opening a restaurant, which he finally did last August: Cafe Booqoo, on the border of Carroll Gardens and Gowanus in Brooklyn.“Yes indeed!” proclaims the front wall in electrified letters, backed by ads for old-time New Orleans goods like Sum-Good coffee and chicory, and Charles E. Erath’s Red Hot Creole Pepper Sauce, concocted in 1916. Next to the posted menu, a handwritten “Creole cheat sheet” defines terms like po’ boy and booqoo: “slang version of the French ‘beaucoup’ … meaning ‘a lot’ or ‘very good.’ ” Neon-bright Big Shot sodas, typically found only in stores down South, line the counter.AdvertisementMr. Pace’s menu has expanded to include mac ’n’ cheese rich from a roux spiked with Crystal hot sauce (first bottled on Tchoupitoulas Street in New Orleans) and larded with crawfish tails. Here, too, is jambalaya crimson from tomato paste, with buried nubs of chicken and smoky andouille. The rice is swollen and clingy, drunk on chicken broth and vegetable stock, thick enough for a spoon to stick straight up. The heat — cayenne, full force — is sanctifying.AdvertisementGumbo starts with a simple roux of butter and flour and the “holy trinity” of onion, celery and bell pepper. Sweetness leaches from shrimp, heat from andouille. Okra is banished. “I had a very traumatizing experience with okra in childhood,” Mr. Pace said. “We’re not friends.” Instead, he thickens the dish with filé, ground dried sassafras leaves, a legacy of the Choctaw tribe in Louisiana. There’s just enough of its camphor undertone to bring dimension, without smacking of medicine.These dishes are relegated to “sides” on the menu, but they were my favorites. The po’ boys are more low-key in flavor, built on bread shipped from Leidenheimer Baking Company in New Orleans — not always in peak condition, but when it is, a lovely compact of whisper-thin crust that fissures at the touch and an interior half air.They’re pretty sandwiches, belying their blue-collar origins in New Orleans’s 1929 streetcar strike. The DDP, which shares Mr. Pace’s mother’s initials, showcases Patton’s hot sausage, considered so essential to the New Orleans diet that newspaper articles after Hurricane Katrina reported evacuees stockpiling it. A white rémoulade muffles some of the sausage’s sting; crispy onions splinter nicely under the teeth.The Versai, layered with fried catfish, carrots and pickled cabbage and slaked with a sauce of satsumas (mandarin oranges) and chile, calls to mind the sweet-sour tang of banh mi. It’s Mr. Pace’s homage to the Vietnamese-American community in the Versailles section of New Orleans East. Let it sit for a minute; the flavors grow stronger the longer the pickles and sauce soak into the bread.For the Grandaddy, a meld of beer, butter and Worcestershire sauce is squeezed over shrimp as they seethe on the grill. They achieve a perfect char, but the slather of onion jam gets sweeter with each bite.In the morning, there are sweet-potato waffles and slightly soupy grits, oversweet from a spill of barbecue sauce. Better are the biscuit sandwiches, for which Mr. Pace gently kneads the dough in a double boiler set over ice, to keep the butter as cold as the grave; and a pecan pie muffin, which tastes like a psychological trick, as dense and lush inside as pecan pie — too rich to take more than one bite, yet you do.And at any time of day: beignets, fried swiftly in oil kept at a steady 375 degrees. Some of my fellow diners, pining over memories of Cafe du Monde in the French Quarter, grumbled that these were too puffy, or not puffy enough, and round instead of square. No matter: The beignets disappeared, and we shed sugar like snow all the way home.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.478 Smith Street(West Ninth Street)Carroll Gardenscafebooqoo.comMenu singlepage.com/cafe-booqooRecommended Dishes Jambalaya; gumbo; crawfish mac ’n’ cheese; biscuit sandwich; beignets with chicory-coffee caramel sauce; pecan pie muffin.Price $ (inexpensive)Open Tuesday to Saturday for breakfast, lunch and early dinner; Sunday for breakfast and late lunch.Reservations Not AcceptedWheelchair Access The dining room is on the same level as the sidewalk. There is no public restroom.
                This information was last updated: Jan. 25, 2018 A version of this review appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Bringing the New Orleans Heat, and More.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byYESTERDAY IN STYLESHow the internet, the self-help industry and the changing nature of celebrity gave rise to the era of “Me, Inc.” in the 1990s. By Alex WilliamsThe headline: “Hold Me! Squeeze Me! Buy a 6-Pack!,” published here in November 1997.The story: It was the ’90s, and celebrities were no longer content to be famous. They had to be “brands.” Leading the way were Martha Stewart, whose popular magazines and television show led to a home goods line at Kmart, and Michael Jordan, whose name suddenly adorned shower curtains, pot holders and walkie-talkies in addition to sneakers and basketball jerseys. No wonder regular people began to reimagine themselves as walking conglomerates in their own right, poring over self-help books and even hiring consultants to help them polish their “brand image” in order to clamber up the corporate ladder and fine-tune their romantic lives.Case studies: In an effort to hone his brand message for the dating world, one Manhattan author hired a market research consultant who assembled a focus group of single women, all of whom had shot him down on previous dates, to offer tweaks to his wardrobe and manner while the client looked on behind a one-way mirror. A 17-year-old in Oregon named Jesse Daggett adopted the self-branding mind-set in order to vault past older, more experienced colleagues at work. “I like to think of the brand Jesse this way,” he said. “Hard worker. Putting yourself in charge. If something needs to be done, Jesse can do it and get it done and be the leader of the team.” His job? Dairy Queen clerk.And this was happening on the larger cultural stage, somewhere between Jesse and Martha and Michael. A new generation of moguls was taking the vertical integration concept to absurd heights and preaching it to the masses. The former Sassy editor Jane Pratt, for example, hosted two talk shows — “Jane” and “The Jane Pratt Show” — and went on to start a magazine called Jane. Self-help gurus were pushing the concept in best-selling books and magazine articles including Tom Peters’s cover story for Fast Company “The Brand Called You.”Why the ’90s? Self-branders found a receptive audience among Generation X members who had come of age in the early-’90s recession, and were thus motivated by fear to set themselves apart from the pack. Later, those Gen X-ers found themselves buoyed by the dot-com boom, when for a brief, heady moment, it seemed like any individual with a catchy URL really could become a business empire unto themselves. The caveats: The concept was not entirely new to the ’90s. As far back as the Great Depression, Dale Carnegie “applied the techniques of the then-nascent advertising industry to personal relations” with his motivational book, “How to Win Friends and Influence People.” Calvin Klein made himself a household name in the 1970s when he stitched his name onto the collective rear end of America.How well did this situation age?: The anecdotes, while prescient, seem almost quaint nowadays, given that the average teenager in 2018 is more likely to fantasize about becoming Jay-Z the empire builder than Jay-Z the chart topper, and the White House has opened its doors to the George Washington of self-branding. The article was published in the early internet years, before blogging and social media took off. The next decade would see platforms like Friendster, MySpace and Facebook usher in a new age of mass narcissism, which gave way to Twitter, YouTube and Instagram, giving everyone a worldwide stage to market themselves as products.And how well did this situation age for Jesse from Dairy Queen? Mr. Daggett is now a 37-year-old national account executive at a uniform rental company who lives near San Antonio. He said in a recent interview that his efforts as a teenager to challenge the accepted ways of doing business gave his Dairy Queen manager “heartburn.” “This was the first time I remember hearing the phrase ‘stay in your lane,’ which I’ve heard countless times since,” he said. The “brand Jesse” approach nearly got him fired after an attempt to streamline the process of mixing Blizzards. The result? Customers splattered with ice cream. But the attitude has paid off in rapid promotions in the corporate world. “My ‘brand’ today is close to what I set out to develop years ago: Jesse Daggett is credible, resourceful, ethical, dedicated, self-driven and thoughtful.”AdvertisementCredit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Robert Capa, the archetypical modern war photographer, once famously declared, “If your photographs aren’t good enough, you’re not close enough.” Good advice, though it didn’t apply to Roger Fenton, the godfather of the genre, who documented the Crimean War in 1855. That’s not just because he had to haul large cameras and unwieldy glass plate negatives (since fast Leica rangefinders had yet to be invented), but also because he shied away from photographing subjects that are now common: As a proper English gentleman, he wouldn’t photograph the corpses of soldiers, because doing so was unseemly.Relying on long exposures made it impossible for Mr. Fenton to stop action and capture actual battles.  But he did give the British public a view of the war by portraying the lives of British enlisted men and officers, as well as showing the  armaments, supply routes and  the many, many horses that were the critical military transportation technology of the day.  He lived among the troops and traveled in a photo truck that doubled as his darkroom while photographing Russia’s defeat by an alliance that included Britain, France and the Ottoman Empire.Three hundred and fifty of his images are now collected in “Shadows of War: Roger Fenton’s Photographs of the Crimea, 1855” by Sophie Gordon with contributions by Louise Pearson. The volume offers a more comprehensive view of his work beyond the dozen or so images familiar to the public.Before the war, Mr. Fenton, a lawyer from a well-to-do family, was already renowned for his technical abilities and his close association with the royal family, which resulted in several historic portraits. A co-founder of the Royal British Photographic Society, he was also an accomplished landscape photographer, a skill he employed often in Crimea. The book notes that Mr. Fenton covered the war thanks to a commission by the publisher Thomas Agnew and Sons to photograph as many of the officers as possible so that Thomas Barker could use the images as the basis for paintings.  Other sources have suggested he was more motivated by the Duke of New Castle, Prince Albert, and other patrons who wanted photographs that could help shape British public opinion about the war.   The conflict with Russia was already well-chronicled in words,  including Alfred Lord Tennyson’s 1854 poem “The Charge of the Light Brigade.” Mr. Fenton reportedly broke several ribs in a fall and contracted cholera while in Crimea but he still managed to make about 360 useable photographs. Like almost all of the conflict photographers who have followed, he documented from just one side of the battlefield. And like with modern-day conflict photography, the relationship between aesthetics and truth is an issue.  Mr. Fenton’s image “Valley of the Shadow of Death” (after the Tennyson poem) (Slide 12) was the first iconic war photograph — and it is believed to have been staged. He took two photographs of the scene — one with cannonballs littering the road and the other with the cannonballs by the roadside.  Writers and scholars remain uncertain as to which was taken first, but either way someone moved the cannonballs between exposures. If it was the photographer, then the image would also be the first — of many — staged war photo. He brought the plates back to England and as many as two million people, most paying an admission of one shilling saw the subsequent exhibits throughout Britain, according to the author. They were a critical and popular success, but Mr. Fenton apparently made little money from the enterprise. While he continued to photograph for several years, including sittings with the royal family, he became disillusioned with the commercialization of photography and sold his camera equipment in 1863 and returned to practicing law.Like many later war photographers Mr. Fenton left the battlefield affected by the deaths he had witnessed. He might have been the first war photographer who turned his back on the craft, but he was certainly not the last.Follow @JamesEstrin and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. James Estrin is also on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryBy CEYLAN YEGINSUJAN. 17, 2018
LONDON — Since Britain voted to leave the European Union more than a year ago, Europeans have mockingly said that the decision will result in an isolated, lonely island nation.But Britain, in fact, already has a serious problem with loneliness, research has found. More than nine million people in the country often or always feel lonely, according to a 2017 report published by the Jo Cox Commission on Loneliness.The issue prompted Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday to appoint a minister for loneliness.“For far too many people, loneliness is the sad reality of modern life,” Mrs. May said in a statement.“I want to confront this challenge for our society and for all of us to take action to address the loneliness endured by the elderly, by carers, by those who have lost loved ones — people who have no one to talk to or share their thoughts and experiences with.”AdvertisementMark Robinson, the chief officer of Age UK, Britain’s largest charity working with older people, warned that the problem could kill.Advertisement“It’s proven to be worse for health than smoking 15 cigarettes a day, but it can be overcome and needn’t be a factor in older people’s lives,” he said.A former United States surgeon general, Dr. Vivek Murthy, wrote an article for the Harvard Business Review last year arguing that loneliness needed addressing in the workplace.It can be associated, he wrote, “with a greater risk of cardiovascular disease, dementia, depression and anxiety.”The British report was commissioned by the  Red Cross in partnership with the Co-op, a cooperative supermarket chain, and published by the Cox commission in December.The group operates in memory of Ms. Cox, 41, a Labour Party lawmaker who was shot dead by a right-wing extremist in 2016, and who had been a prominent voice in Parliament on the issue, setting up a cross-party commission that aimed to start a national conversation and establish the scale and impact of loneliness in Britain.The prime minister announced on Wednesday that Tracey Crouch, who is the under secretary for sport and civil society in the culture ministry, would lead a governmentwide group to build on Ms. Cox’s legacy and establish policies on the issue.In parallel, the Office for National Statistics would help to establish a method of measuring loneliness, and a fund would be set up to help the government and charities to develop a wider strategy to identify opportunities to tackle the problem.AdvertisementThe Cox commission, led by the lawmakers Rachel Reeves and Seema Kennedy, said it welcomed the government’s “prompt response” to its report.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Quoting Ms. Cox, the lawmakers said in a joint statement, “Young or old, loneliness doesn’t discriminate.”“Throughout 2017 we have heard from new parents, children, disabled people, carers, refugees and older people about their experience of loneliness,” they added.Government research has found that about 200,000 older people in Britain had not had a conversation with a friend or relative in more than a month.Carol Jenkins, 64, a retired nurse from Berkshire, in southwest England, said she started to feel lonely when her son moved abroad and she downsized to a smaller house in a different county.“It was a financial decision to move, and I didn’t really have it in me to start making new friends,” Ms. Jenkins recalled on Wednesday in a phone interview. “Months would go by without seeing my friends or family, and I felt really depressed and alone.”Ms. Jenkins has since joined a Facebook group for Britons affected by loneliness, which, she says, has helped her to get out of the house more.“It’s not so much about meeting people on the internet and making new friends, but it’s more of a motivational support network that gives you direction on how to cope and fix the problem,” she said, adding that she was surprised by how many young people had joined the group.“There are so many university students who just lock themselves in their rooms for days because they feel rejected or that they don’t fit in,” Ms. Jenkins said. “It’s only a matter of time before loneliness turns into depression. And that’s where it gets dangerous.”A version of this article appears in print on January 18, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Britain Tackles Loneliness.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Hungry City By                     
LIGAYA MISHAN

JAN. 16, 2018
In winter, momos are salvation: hot dumplings with swirled pleats, fresh from the steamer, arriving in a cloudy rush of ascending souls.To eat them outdoors in winter, shivering, with numb, fumbling fingers, is even more of a wonder. At the Amdo Kitchen food truck in Jackson Heights, Queens, momos come huddled unceremoniously, eight for $5 on a disposable plate; bow your head over them and the steam kisses your face.Thubten Amchok, the owner and chef, grew up in the Amdo region of Tibet and fled to Nepal and then India before settling in the U.S. in 1995. A former monk, he started selling momos from a pushcart six years ago. Now his truck — emblazoned with Tibetan and American flags, snow lions alongside stars and stripes — rolls out daily, weather permitting. (Snowdrifts from the recent storm piled up so high, he couldn’t park on the street for two weeks.)To him, the best momo is just meat and dough. “Not many other ingredients are involved,” he said. His dumplings are loaded with ground beef, loosely packed and tinged with nothing more than scallions, salt and a drop of soy sauce. “What makes it delicious isn’t the meat,” he said, but the skin, which he shapes by hand and flattens until it’s almost sheer.AdvertisementHe seals the dumplings quickly, furling the dough into topknots, so none of the juices escape. “It’s not a secret, but I think it’s a skill,” he said. One bite and the penned-up broth gushes. If you’re not careful, it’ll spatter your fingers, sleeves and shoes. It’s worth it.AdvertisementOnly beef momos were available on my visits, but that was enough. Each plate is anchored by a tuft of radish that Mr. Amchok pickles for a week. Also on hand is a red squeeze bottle of sepen, a scarlet sauce of pulverized chile tempered, just barely, by spring water. The heat is ruthless and consoling at once, a small, steady flame that settles low in the chest.In this neighborhood that many Tibetan and Nepalese immigrants call home, momos are a common language. For the past six years, the annual Momo Crawl, organized by Jeff Orlick, a Queens resident, has taken diners on a one-night tour of local Himalayan food trucks and restaurants half-hidden behind cellphone stores. At the end, they bestow an award for best momo; Amdo Kitchen’s 2015 victory is memorialized by a poster on the truck’s flank of a momo spray-painted gold.In June, a new contender, Potala (unrelated to the Potala momo truck a few blocks away), appeared in a tiny storefront across the street. Despite the abundance of momos on the block — more may be found at Phayul, in the same building upstairs — it proved so popular, it had to close briefly this fall to absorb a second, equally tiny storefront next door.There are no tables, just stools along counters, and orders are placed at a window peeking into the closet kitchen. On a wall of exposed brick hangs a photograph of the Potala Palace in Lhasa, the traditional seat of the Tibetan government and winter home of the Dalai Lama, who was forced into exile in 1959.“I lost my country,” said Tashi D. Lama, the owner. He was born and raised in Kathmandu, Nepal, but has family roots in the Kham region, whose sweep of mountains and grasslands is often described as the Wild West of Tibet, and whose people, Khampas, are historically known for their ferocity in combat.Before he came to the U.S. a few years ago, he was a monk. Now he is a chef, making laphing, slippery bands of steamed dough coiled like cinnamon rolls, glossed with chile at the center; and momos with meticulous pleats, pinched at the neck.
CreditAn Rong Xu for The New York Times        Here, the skins are a little thicker, and the beef is suffused with preserved radish, which lends a nicely gamy funk. The beef is packed tight, forming a meatball inside the skin and almost squeaking under the teeth; still, the juices run.AdvertisementOther momos reveal chives stitched through the beef, a garlicky lace, or chives alone, brilliant green and hardly wilted, giving off a whiff of sesame oil. All are best daubed alternately in sepen, fierce enough to halt conversation, and a gentler yellow chutney of crushed tomatoes and sesame seeds, musty with turmeric.As at Amdo Kitchen, momos are eight for $5, with the added benefit of shelter from the storm and a cup of butter tea, dispensed from a tall pink canister. It is close to soup, salty and heavy on the tongue, and for a moment its warmth feels like armor.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.68-12 37th RdJackson Heights212-920-0881Recommended Dishes Beef momos.Price $ (inexpensive)Open Daily for lunch and dinner, weather permitting.Reservations Not AcceptedWheelchair Access The truck window is high. There is no restroom.
                This information was last updated: Jan. 16, 2018 37-65 74th StreetJackson Heights347-622-7037Recommended Dishes Yellow laphing; mixed beef and vegetable momos; vegetable momos.Price $ (inexpensive)Open Daily for breakfast, lunch and dinner.Reservations Not AcceptedWheelchair Access The dining room is a step up from the sidewalk. There is no public restroom.
                This information was last updated: Jan. 17, 2018 An earlier version of this article misstated the number of weeks the Amdo Kitchen food truck was unable to park on the street due to snow. It was two weeks, not one. A venue asset with this article also misstated the name of Tashi D. Lama’s restaurant. It is Potala, not Potala Kitchen.A version of this review appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Fresh From the Dumpling Steamer, Warmth.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MARTIN SELSOE SORENSENJAN. 16, 2018
COPENHAGEN — The Danish inventor Peter Madsen was formally indicted on Tuesday on charges of homicide in connection with the death in August of Kim Wall, a Swedish journalist who had boarded his submarine to interview him.Danish prosecutors and the Copenhagen police indicted Mr. Madsen on charges of killing Ms. Wall “with prior planning and preparation” — the equivalent of murder — according to a statement released by the police, as well as with dismemberment, indecent handling of a corpse and improper sexual relations. While a news release was posted online on Tuesday, the actual wording of the charges is expected to be made public only next week.Ms. Wall, a freelance journalist, vanished on Aug. 10 after leaving the port of Copenhagen on the UC3 Nautilus, a submarine that Mr. Madsen had built and operated. Her torso was found on a beach on Amager Island near Copenhagen after 11 days, and divers later recovered her severed head and legs in plastic bags.Mr. Madsen, 47, has given various explanations for the disappearance of Ms. Wall, 30. But he eventually said that she had died onboard his vessel after a hatch unexpectedly collapsed, and that she had hit her head while she was climbing stairs in the submarine’s tower. An autopsy revealed that she had no head injuries to support that claim, however.AdvertisementProsecutors said in the statement on Tuesday that the exact cause of Ms. Wall’s death was not known, but that it “could have taken place by cutting of the throat or strangulation.” An autopsy had found that she had been stabbed at least 14 times, but it was not able to establish the cause of death.During questioning in October, Mr. Madsen admitted to dismembering Ms. Wall’s body and to tossing body parts overboard, but he denied killing her.AdvertisementThe prosecution said on Tuesday that it would not reveal details on the evidence supporting the charges.The exact circumstances of Ms. Wall’s introduction to Mr. Madsen remain unclear. In a pretrial hearing in September, he said that she had first contacted him to talk about rockets, but that she had then become intrigued by his submarines and wanted to go on one for a ride. It was not clear when the two first communicated, but they met for the first time on Aug. 10.Ms. Wall, a prolific journalist who had written for The New York Times, graduated from the London School of Economics, received two master’s degrees from Columbia University and had lived in many countries. She reported from Uganda, Sri Lanka and Cuba, and died only miles from Trelleborg, Sweden, where she grew up, across the Oresund from Copenhagen.Witnesses have described seeing Ms. Wall and Mr. Madsen onboard the submarine in Copenhagen port on Aug. 10. When she failed to return home that evening, her boyfriend contacted the authorities and the submarine was reported missing.It was found the next morning floating in Koge Bay, south of Copenhagen, but began sinking when a private rescue party approached. Mr. Madsen was pulled from the waters.NORWAYSWEDEN152OresundDENMARKCopenhagenCopenhagenE20Avedore HolmeAmagerKoge BaySovang5 milesOCT. 13, 2017
At first, he told the police that he had dropped off Ms. Wall on shore, and denied any wrongdoing. He later said that he had buried her intact body at sea after an accident. When police investigators presented evidence tying him to metal pieces and straps used to weight her body down, he changed his explanation again and admitted to dismembering her.AdvertisementBetina Hald Engmark, a lawyer for Mr. Madsen, said in a text message Tuesday afternoon that she would review the indictment with her client later on Tuesday, adding that she had no further comment about the charges.A trial by jury is expected to begin on March 8 and to last eight days. Jakob Buch-Jepsen, a prosecutor, said in a short news briefing on Tuesday that he would seek a life sentence, which he added translates in Denmark to an average of 14 years in prison.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As a routine measure, the Danish Medico-Legal Council performed a psychiatric evaluation of Mr. Madsen, concluding “that safe custody may be required” if he is sentenced.Ms. Wall’s mother, Ingrid Wall, said on Facebook on Monday that a Kim Wall Memorial Fund had raised $150,000 for scholarships. The first recipient will be announced on March 23, she said.“In spite of everything, Kim lives on and continues to make a difference,” she wrote.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Sebastián HidalgoSebastian Hidalgo grew up in Pilsen, an old Chicago neighborhood, when it was still Chicano through and through: Day of the Dead, Virgen de Guadalupe, Mexican Independence Day and other traditional festivals filled the community calendar. Murals from the late 1960s turned buildings into canvases, alleys into museums. And the food — “authentic Mexican” a restaurant critic called it — came straight from wherever the chef’s roots lay, be it Michoacan or Mexico City.  It was as if the Mexicans who settled the former Slavic enclave southwest of downtown in the early 1960s brought the old country in their bags to seed the new one. By the 1980s, the descendants of the Czech immigrants who named Pilsen a century ago (after a city in what is now the Czech Republic) had moved out. About 95 percent of Pilsen’s residents were of Mexican descent.To Mr. Hidalgo, just 22 and a freelance photographer, Pilsen was everything. The neighborhood, 2.8 square miles of cottages and three-flats (Chicago slang for three-family, detached houses), endured its share of inner-city ills – gang violence, poverty, drugs. But it had spunk. Growing up where activists and artists proud of their heritage – his heritage – received respect and support sparked his interest in engaging in local struggles and triumphs. Especially now.Pilsen, like working-class communities of color all over the country, is gentrifying. It began nearly two decades ago, but the pace has picked up since the end of the recession. New residential buildings have sprung up; wealthier, non-Latinos have moved in; and restaurants and pubs catering to the new demographic are inhabiting old storefronts. In a pattern familiar to other rapidly gentrifying Latino neighborhoods, like San Francisco’s Mission District and Los Angeles’s Boyle Heights, Pilsen’s long-time residents are being pushed out. Mr. Hidalgo, as worried as anyone that the community could be lost, decided to document it. Armed with a fellowship from City Bureau, a non-profit journalism lab that supports community reporting, Mr. Hidalgo spent just shy of two years capturing Pilsen’s everyday people. He calls the project “The Quietest Form of Displacement in a Barrio.” The “quiet” part refers to the alienation long-time residents experience every day. Mr. Hidalgo, who first picked up a camera as a boy, has documented anti-Trump rallies, gentrification protests, a lowrider festival, an underground dance club, neighborhood icons and characters. On one otherwise ordinary day, he wound up at the scene of two separate drive-by shootings, rare in Pilsen, if not Chicago.He also photographed a former community center, Casa Aztlan, on the day it became a metaphor for gentrification. The shuttered building’s facade was adorned with one of Pilsen’s oldest murals, an homage to famous artists and activists. The new owner, ahead of converting the building to 10 market-rate apartments, had the murals painted over in gray.As a child, Mr. Hidalgo said, “I used to walk to Casa Aztlan just to see the murals as a reminder of where my blood came from. As an adult, seeing the murals painted over in gray was violent to me and to others who share the same history with the community center.”He does not pretend to be objective about Pilsen’s upheavals, or deny that they affect him. “I see there is no separating my work and my life,” he said, “that I do this work to learn something about myself and to learn about the world. It doesn’t make me ill-equipped to do this type of conflict work, but rather allows me to put my heart and soul out.”In fact, he began his self-education in photography as a boy in the emotional setting of his grandfather’s funeral. His godfather had brought a digital camera to take pictures for family members who could not attend. “He lent me his camera, saying, ‘Fill the memory as much as you can.’ And I considered this my first assignment.”He knew then he wanted to be a photographer, he said. “Since then, I never put the camera down,” he said. He learned photography wandering Pilsen, “learning how light behaved in parks, street corners, invited homes and on human features.” Later, he realized photography offered a way to be a kind of “anthropologist.” He plans to exhibit his project in Pilsen, and then other neighborhoods facing similar pressures of housing. ”I hope my photographs allow an audience to demand and scream for change,” he said. “To have them ask questions, to feel what the other person is coping with, and to consider the contributions of their circumstances. I want them to see with their hearts.”Follow @sebastian_hwc and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryBy TIFFANY HSUJAN. 16, 2018
The retail industry is doubling down on digital to keep its unexpectedly strong holiday performance from becoming a fluke.The floor of the National Retail Federation’s annual trade show in New York this week was crowded with alert systems primed to recognize heavy-spending customers, so-called smart shelves fitted with real-time inventory trackers and robots for every step of the supply chain.It was a conference about shopping that looked more like an expo for tech, as if the electronics trade show CES had decamped from Las Vegas and moved to the Javits Center in Manhattan.The retail federation said last week that total sales in November and December made their largest leap since 2008, surging 5.5 percent from a year earlier. On Tuesday, Adobe Analytics reported that online sales over the same period grew by 14.7 percent to a new high of $108.2 billion, with mobile revenue booming 28 percent.AdvertisementAt the three-day event — which drew more than 600 exhibitors and featured sessions with top executives from Walmart, Best Buy, Neiman Marcus and other major companies — discussions of artificial intelligence, big data and automation filled stages and meeting booths modeled after fitting rooms.AdvertisementE-commerce was both an aspiration and a boogeyman. Amazon was often described in hushed tones; several exhibitors and speakers tried to avoid naming the online retailer at all.But attendees packed a large hall on Tuesday to listen to an executive of Alibaba, a Chinese giant that many consider to be Amazon’s chief rival, describe how Asian consumers are eager to make purchases enabled by technology.China “may well become the first cashless society in the future,” said Lee McCabe, vice president of Alibaba’s North America operations. Shoppers in China largely accept Alibaba’s voracious data collection, which allows the company to create detailed behavioral profiles across its many platforms.Alibaba uses the information to help guide American brands like Mattel into China, Mr. McCabe said. To promote movies like “A Dog’s Purpose” to an Asian audience, Alibaba “targeted everybody who likes Dennis Quaid movies, who likes dogs, who has watched a dog video” using its vast trove of data, he said.Artificial intelligence also plays heavily into Alibaba’s strategy and is used to predict supply chain volatility and personalize marketing. It also handles 95 percent of the inquiries the company receives from its customers. The system recognizes when shoppers become emotional and should be transferred to a human representative, Mr. McCabe said.Certain consumers will soon be able to test-drive or purchase vehicles without any human contact, using their mobile phones at a garage that doubles as a vending machine, he said. Alibaba will have reviewed their credit scores and deemed them able to afford a car.Embracing technologies, and quickly, is crucial to survival as consumers grow more demanding, according to a panel of venture capital professionals.Advertisement“The consumer expectation of a frictionless shopping experience is here,” said Scott Friend, managing director of Bain Capital Ventures.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Digitally native companies are emerging and growing faster. Catching up can be difficult for large legacy chains, which have struggled to project enough cool factor to recruit in-demand employees.“Talent is a major challenge for a lot of these retailers,” said Janie Yu, a partner at Fung Capital. “If you are a top-notch, A+ data scientist, you probably want to work at Bonobos or Facebook or Google or Jet.”Mr. Friend said that companies like Walmart had tried to make cultural shifts to attract innovative employees, or folded them in through acquisitions.“I don’t think it’s some magic that start-ups have that big companies don’t,” he said.All retailers, however, are grappling with an existential debate over what constitutes a store, according to the panel. Is it a marketing platform? A place to buy goods?Many companies are experimenting with new tactics, including showrooms and pickup services. Alex Taussig, a partner at Lightspeed Venture Partners, called this experimentation the “replatforming of retail.”“This is all rethinking what it means to have a store, and this is why I think the retail apocalypse is not evenly distributed,” he said. “There are certain formats that will go away.”Shoppers “used to be passive individuals in front of a shelf,” Laurence Haziot, a global managing director at IBM, said during another panel.Consumers are in control, as retailers scramble to tailor products to their liking, design more elaborate shopping experiences to hold their interest and deliver purchases on increasingly short deadlines.AdvertisementCustomer behavior is getting harder to pin down. The boundaries between generations are disappearing, as so-called millennial and generation Z shoppers influence the buying habits of baby boomers, panelists said.As companies compile more detailed dossiers on their clientele, stuffed with data collected online and in stores, retailers could someday fine-tune their marketing and scheduling to each consumer, the panelists said.“We can microsegment as thin as we want in the future,” Ms. Haziot said. “Each individual is a segment in itself.”Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Tech Is Star of Trade Show for Retailers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By TIM HERRERAJAN. 15, 2018
Welcome to the Smarter Living newsletter. The editor, Tim Herrera, emails readers with tips and advice for living a better, more fulfilling life. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.This week I’ve invited Kenneth R. Rosen from the Smarter Living team to share some great tips about working from home, with a little help from readers. Last fall he wrote a guide to working from home, and below is even more advice for people who are either starting out or looking to stay motivated at home. What’s your advice for staying productive (or beating boredom)? Let Ken know on Twitter @kenneth_rosen or at kenneth.rosen@nytimes.com.Take it away, Ken!***After I published “How to Work From Home,” tons of readers wrote in wanting to know the steps to building a career around working from home, whether that meant finding jobs and gigs or balancing a family on top of a workload. Others felt that success “at working from home doesn’t require a magic checklist of dos and don’ts, but instead a focused desire to perform and succeed.”Here are some tips for making it work for you.Finding Remote WorkThere are many companies and websites that connect freelancers with employers, but they can be sparse depending on your specific trade and industry. Upwork is a wonderful platform that I have used for small projects.AdvertisementYou set up a profile based on your area of expertise — it’s open to writers, programmers and developers, administrative support workers, translators, financial professionals, marketers and more — and then browse available jobs and postings. After placing bids, you can be awarded short- or long-term contracts. A nifty desktop app tracks and logs your daily hours and sends them directly to your employer.AdvertisementParental Control: At-Home EditionSetting boundaries and outlining expectations with everyone in your household, from pets to spouses to children, is crucial. If you have a block of time during which you must work, make sure to communicate that you won’t be available at all.“It depends on the age, but good habit training is imperative,” Richele Baburina, a freelance writer and author who home-schools her two young boys, wrote in response to our guide. “A schedule for everyone allows for great freedom.” Ms. Baburina said that when her children were little she gave them small work tasks, like labeling envelopes or stamping books, while she worked nearby, which helped make “them a valuable part of the team in keeping the house running.”Stay Disciplined, but Not Too DisciplinedBe structured, but also fluid. Making sure you complete all that is expected of you each day takes discipline. But I have found that a huge benefit of my working from home is the small bouts of unassigned time in which creative thoughts that would otherwise be left dormant can flourish. Sleeping in late to delay a start time, or waking up early to see the sunrise (before taking an early-afternoon nap) can spur ideas that otherwise might never get the chance to grow.A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters. Never Take It for GrantedSometimes the greatest benefits of working from home come from the small respites and the ability to be flexible for loved ones between working, said the reader Greg Allen.“Best part was time flexibility allowed coaching kids’ sports, assisting with homeschooling, aiding elderly parents and taking breaks to make firewood or tend to the veggie garden,” Mr. Allen wrote. “A great way to live, but it takes exceptional self-discipline.”Facebook Is Changing. What Does That Mean for Your News Feed? The social network has made major changes to the types of posts, videos and photos you’ll see in your News Feed.Six New Cocktails, Alcohol Not Included If you’re feeling a bit pickled after a month of holiday celebration — or just prefer to keep your drinking to a minimum, regardless of season — take heart: It’s an especially good time to be a teetotaler.AdvertisementHow to Choose the Right Dining Table for Your Home Attention to not just the size and the shape, but the construction, style and materials will make sure you buy a table you’ll love for years to come.A Beginner’s Guide to Backing Up Photos Whether they’re digital photos on your smartphone or old negatives in your attic, here’s how to start tackling your photo clutter.Ways to Save in 2018 Eight tips to help keep your travel expenses nominal and your wallet fat this year.Want to Be Happy? Think Like an Old Person In a series update, we catch up with a group of New Yorkers over age 90: warm, cranky, funny and three years older than when we first met them.• Stay on the sofa and do yoga.• Last year may have seemed awful. But good things did happen.• Millionaires create their luck this way.• Improve your public speaking.• Eat more fiber, lose more weight.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRISTINE HAUSERJAN. 15, 2018
Dave Fanning, an Irish music journalist and one of the first to discover the Cranberries, talks about how Dolores O'Riordan found a place between grunge and Brit pop that catapulted the band to international stardom.Dolores O’Riordan, the lead singer of the Irish rock band the Cranberries, died on Monday in London. She was 46.Her death was announced by her publicist, who did not specify the cause.“Irish and international singer Dolores O’Riordan has died suddenly in London today,” Lindsey Holmes, the publicist, said in an emailed statement, adding that Ms. O’Riordan had been in London for a recording session.The statement said that family members are “devastated to hear the breaking news and have requested privacy at this very difficult time.”A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Police said on Monday that the police were called to a Park Lane hotel in Westminster at about 9:05 a.m., and that Ms. O’Riordan was pronounced dead at the scene. Her death is not being treated as suspicious.AdvertisementMs. O’Riordan wrote lyrics and often music for the Cranberries’ 1990s hits, including “Linger” (which remained on Billboard’s Hot 100 chart for 24 weeks) and “Dreams,” which proclaimed both vulnerability and steadfastness. She was the sole writer of the noisier, angrier “Zombie,” a response to an Irish Republican Army terrorist bombing in 1993.In the band, her voice — high and breathy, but far more determined than fragile — rode atop a rich wash of electric guitars. Her unmistakable Irish accent and the Celtic inflections of her melodies gave her singing a plaintive individuality and a flinty core.AdvertisementThe Cranberries were formed in 1989 as the Cranberry Saw Us and renamed the Cranberries after Ms. O’Riordan took over as lead singer in 1990. Along with the brothers Noel Hogan on guitar and Mike Hogan on bass, the band includes the drummer Fergal Lawler.The group arrived during the early 1990s ascendance of alternative rock: tuneful, punk-derived, guitar-driven songs that often made their way from college-radio playlists to commercial radio.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Four of the group’s albums reached the Billboard Top 20.Female rock singers like Sinead O’Connor and Harriet Wheeler of the Sundays had recently preceded the Cranberries on the pop charts, and the band also drew deeply on the musical example of the Smiths, the 1980s band that propelled warm, rounded guitars and confessional lyrics with post-punk drumming. The Cranberries’ 1993 debut album, “Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can’t We?,” which included the career-making hits “Linger” and “Dreams,” and the 1994 album “No Need to Argue,” with “Zombie,” were both produced by the Smiths’ producer, Stephen Street.After “Zombie,” the Cranberries lost much of their pop audience as their late-1990s albums grew harsher and more concerned with sociopolitical messages than with love songs. The Cranberries disbanded in 2003. In 2007 Ms. O’Riordan released her first solo album, “Are You Listening?”Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In an interview published in The Guardian last year, Ms. O’Riordan described how the band wrote “Linger,” its first song together. “I wrote about being rejected,” she said. “I never imagined that that it would become a big song.”In 1996, Neil Strauss, a pop music critic for The New York Times, described Ms. O’Riordan as a performer who can “sing almost anything and make it seem musical.”AdvertisementMs. O’Riordan’s death was also announced on the group’s Twitter account, where fans shared messages of mourning and of the impact that the group’s music had on their lives.
            Irish and international singer Dolores O’Riordan has died suddenly in London today. She was 46 years old. Family members are devastated to hear the breaking news and have requested privacy at this very difficult time. Full Statement: https://t.co/L8K98BFpSM pic.twitter.com/ADEY51Xnwe “She was part of my DNA, the soundtrack to my life,” wrote one, Michael Traboulsi.Ms. O’Riordan was born on Sept. 6, 1971, and grew up in the Ballybricken area of County Limerick, Ireland. In 1994, she married Don Burton, a former tour manager for Duran Duran; the couple divorced in 2014. She is survived by her three children, Taylor, Molly and Dakota, and her mother, Eileen O’Riordan.Six years after the Cranberries’ split, the group reunited and began touring again. But last year, the band canceled dates on its European and North America tours because of Ms. O’Riordan’s ongoing back problems.“There have been some comments suggesting that Dolores could perform if she sat while singing. Unfortunately it is not as simple as that,” a statement on the group’s Facebook page said then.The Cranberries released the acoustic album “Something Else” in 2017 and had plans to perform shows in Europe and North America. But the tours were cut short or canceled because the band said that singing put pressure on the parts of her spine that were giving her so much pain.
            bye bye Gio. We're off to Ireland pic.twitter.com/d6HKOFJqGB Anna Codrea-Rado contributed reporting from London.A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 2018, on Page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Dolores O’Riordan, Cranberries Lead Singer, Dies at 46.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Women’s March Inc., which organized the event in Washington, has encouraged more protests. But a new group is focused on winning elections, especially in red states.By FARAH STOCKMANJAN. 15, 2018
Amber Selman-Lynn wanted to help plan a women’s march in Mobile, Ala., this month to mark the first anniversary of last year’s huge protests across the country. The day had been significant for her.With no experience in political activism, she had helped organize a bus full of women to go from Mobile to Washington. After they came back from the euphoric trip, they formed a group called Mobile Marchers that met monthly. They spoke up for the Affordable Care Act at town-hall-style meetings, and knocked on doors for the Alabama Senate candidate Doug Jones, the Democrat who beat Roy S. Moore in a stunning victory last month.But when Ms. Selman-Lynn tried to register her anniversary event on the website for Women’s March Inc., the high-profile group formed by the organizers of last year’s event in Washington, she received an unusual letter. It said that while the group was “supportive of any efforts to build our collective power as women,” it asked that she “not advertise your event as a ‘Women’s March’ action.”“It’s kind of silly,” Ms. Selman-Lynn said. “We are clearly the women’s march in Mobile.”AdvertisementThe Women’s March a year ago aimed to start a movement of women from all walks of life who would continue their activism long after they had gone home.AdvertisementIn many ways, that goal has been realized. In the wake of the march on Washington — and simultaneous marches in more than 600 towns and cities across the country — thousands of women threw themselves into activism for the first time in their lives, especially in red states where the events provided a rare chance to build a network of like-minded people.In Texas, emails collected by the organizers of the Women’s March in Austin are being repurposed to promote candidates who support abortion rights. In Arkansas, Gwen Combs, the elementary schoolteacher who organized the Little Rock march, is now running for Congress. Thousands of women in October attended a convention in Detroit training them on everything from lobbying elected officials to confronting white supremacy.But as the movement evolves, differing priorities and tactics have emerged among the women, nearly all of them unpaid and spread across the country. Now, on the eve of the anniversary, a rift is emerging between two groups: Women’s March Inc., which organized the march on Washington and spent much of the year creating more social justice protests, and another organization of activists who planned sister marches last year and believe that winning elections, particularly in red states, should be the primary goal. The split has raised questions about who can claim the mantle of the Women’s March — and the funding and press attention that goes with it.The newer group, named March On, formed after some female activists in red states felt the protests being encouraged by Women’s March Inc., which is based in New York, were not resonating in their communities.“We can march and take to the streets and yell about all the stuff we want to change, but unless we’re getting people elected to office who are going to make those changes, we’re not really doing anything,” said Lindsey Kanaly, who organized the women’s march in Oklahoma City and is now a March On board member.The group is now focused on helping liberal women in Republican-led districts organize ahead of the pivotal midterm elections this year.Mindful of the optics of dividing the movement, March On founders describe the organization as a complement, not a competitor, to Women’s March Inc. Both groups have refrained from criticizing the other in public. But behind the scenes, there has been some frustration.AdvertisementWinnie Wong, a Women’s March Inc. volunteer and adviser, wrote recently in a public Facebook post that March On “seems like an ill-conceived attempt at organized co-option.”“Somebody got to tell the truth!” replied Tamika Mallory, a co-president of Women’s March Inc.Bob Bland, also a co-president, said the new group was “welcome in the resistance.” But she noted that its creation had led to “a lot of confusion” among activists on the ground who did not realize that it was a separate entity.“That’s why it is so important for new groups coming into this movement, like March On, to make sure they have distinct branding and messaging that is specific to them and their group that doesn’t appear as if it is directly Women’s March related,” Ms. Bland said.Ms. Selman-Lynn in Mobile had been unaware of the difference between the two groups and organized her event using online tools from March On. To satisfy Women’s March Inc., she reprinted her banner to remove March On’s slogan, “March On the Polls.”It was a minor inconvenience, she said. But she hopes the two groups will work together in the future.“The Women’s March is really iconic and of course we want to be a part of that,” she said. “But March On has a great tool kit. Most of us have never done this before. We need all the guidance we can get.”The dispute over branding gives a glimpse of how much has changed since ad hoc committees of volunteers put together the marches in the weeks after President Trump’s election.The marches grew out of a Facebook post by a woman in Hawaii who floated the idea, attracting widespread interest. A core group of organizers in New York City planned the march on Washington, while hundreds of other women organized similar marches in their own communities.AdvertisementThe organizers of the march in Washington made a point of picking leaders from communities who have historically been ignored by mainstream feminist groups. Of the four national co-chairwomen of the Washington march, three were minorities. But the group’s leadership had very little geographic diversity. Nearly all of the board members of Women’s March Inc. are from New York City.After the march, Women’s March Inc. used its powerful platform to advance social justice causes, urging marchers to hold conversations about racial injustice, protest the deportation of undocumented immigrants, attend vigils for Syria and participate in a national strike called A Day Without Women. Women’s March Inc. activists said they saw social justice protests as crucial to forming effective and diverse coalitions.Yet many of their protests failed to catch on in red states.“What they are doing is great, but it’s difficult to tap into here,” said Kelly Smith, a librarian from Berea, Ky., who organized buses from Kentucky to Washington for the march last year. A general strike could not work in Kentucky, a state where many women depend on hourly wages and do not have union protections, she said.Women “would have come back to work the next day and had no job,” she said. “I can’t be on board with that.”Kentuckians have other urgent priorities, like saving the pensions of public-school teachers that were cut by a conservative governor, she said.In Texas, Melissa Fiero, who helped organize a march of 100,000 people in Austin, said her group had not participated in any of the protests urged by Women’s March Inc. Instead, it has focused on promoting Democrats for local office.“The needs are different from Texas to New York,” said Ms. Fiero, who lives in the rural community of Oatmeal. “A woman’s right to choose is constantly under assault in Texas.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Both Ms. Kelly and Ms. Fiero have chosen to affiliate with March On.The goal of March On is to take a “bottom-up” approach that can draw women in rural places, said Jaquie Algee, who helped plan the Women’s March in Chicago and now serves as the board chairwoman of March On.“We wanted to make sure that women in red states who need the most support are in positions of leadership,” said Ms. Algee, who is also an organizer in Kansas, Indiana and Missouri for the Service Employees International Union. Ms. Algee, who is black, said that March On also “strives continually” for racial diversity in its leadership. Four out of 13 board members are minorities.AdvertisementMs. Bland disputes claims that Women’s March Inc. has had difficulty in conservative areas. “Red states are where there’s actually the most activity,” she said. “We’re here to facilitate the vision of the actual state organizers and the grass-roots groups that are doing the work.”March On’s founders say the group grew out of weekly conference calls held by the organizers of sister marches as they swapped tips on applying for permits, finding sponsors and obtaining event insurance. After the marches, they met for the first time at a retreat and decided to form a new organization that would focus on giving organizers tools to help win elections.In October, March On began an initiative called March on the Polls, which urges local activists to use the anniversary to help register and educate voters in advance of the midterm elections.Two months later, in December, Women’s March Inc. announced its own campaign called “Power to the Polls,” with an opening rally in Las Vegas on Jan. 21.Women’s March Inc. has struggled to bring the decentralized women’s march movement under its umbrella.Before the march, the Women’s March logo, created by Nicole LaRue, a designer who worked pro bono, was shared freely with groups all over the world. Since then, Women’s March Inc. has tried to exert greater control over who can use it.Canadian activists who held marches in solidarity with the Women’s March on Washington were outraged when American activists with Women’s March Inc. in New York registered the name Women’s March Canada and appointed a board without consulting them.“We believe our network has shown itself to be excellent custodians of the Women’s March spirit and ethos, and respectfully request the time and space to prepare a plan to move ahead in unity and solidarity,” they wrote in an open letter to national co-chairwomen of the Women’s March on Washington.AdvertisementAfter they did not get a response, they renamed themselves March On Canada and created the Twitter hashtag #DontTradeMarkTheMovement. They are now affiliated with, but not controlled by, March On.Jo Reger, professor of sociology at Oakland University in Michigan, says the feminist movement, like other important social movements, has always had people coming together and then breaking apart.“We think it looks so chaotic and full of factions and what it really looks like is every other social movement,” Dr. Reger said. “Often those factions end up coming back together later on.”So far, the split between Women’s March and March On has not dampened the enthusiasm for marking the anniversary. Many activists in the field said they were unaware of the division. Those who are say they seek resources from both organizations: Women’s March Inc. provides a unifying vision and a national spotlight, while March On gives on-the-ground support, such as legal advice on applying for nonprofit status.Many women say the marches last year unleashed a new era of activism and a level of energy that shows no sign of flagging. Ms. Selman-Lynn said she simply wanted all the help she could get to win more elections for Democrats in Alabama.“We have a lot of work to do, convincing people that there’s a grass-roots group with a lot of energy who is willing to work,” said Ms. Selman-Lynn. “We’ve got a lot of ground to gain here.”An earlier version of this article included an incorrect figure from March On for the number of minority women on the organization’s board. There are four, not three.An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a sociology professor at Oakland University. She is Jo Reger, not Roger.A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: March United Women, but Goals Split Them Up.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Lauren MarkhamWill it affect my brothers?”That was the first thing the 23-year-old Salvadoran woman asked me about the Trump administration’s announcement last Monday that it would not renew “temporary protected status” for nearly 200,000 immigrants from her country.Her three brothers live here — two crossed by themselves in 2013 along with a wave of other unaccompanied minors, and the third is undocumented. They arrived after 2001, so none of them were ever eligible for the protection the White House is taking away. But their lives here — and the lives they fled in El Salvador — illustrate how disastrous it will be for their country to attempt to absorb 200,000 people who are required to return in September 2019.The young woman, whom I met when I wrote a book about her family and whom I called Maricela there, lives in rural El Salvador and gets her news via Facebook on a phone that only sometimes works — when it doesn’t rain, and when she has the money to pay for data. It took only a day for her to learn about the policy shift, and to become terrified.She knows that being deported can be a death sentence. She explained that when young Salvadorans are sent home, they risk being killed by gang members, often the very people who ran them out of the country. Some returnees who have been away for a long time will be considered “desconocido,” unknown, and are likely to be targets because of suspicion (they could be members of a rival gang) or because, by virtue of having lived in the United States, they are assumed to have money. “My parents are so worried,” the woman told me.Her fear is no doubt being felt by many whose relatives’ status has been thrown into question by the announcement, and whose loved ones face dismal fates if they’re made to return. While the decision to end temporary protected status is causing shock waves in the United States as Salvadorans here reckon with the prospect of being separated from their families and sent back to a country plagued by deadly violence, or moving into the underground undocumented economy, it is also a source of intense anxiety for millions in El Salvador about how it will affect their own lives.Opportunities for young people in El Salvador are scant; only half of Salvadoran youth attend junior high school, and only half of those complete high school. More than 300,000 young Salvadorans are out of school and without a job. Nayib Bukele, the mayor of San Salvador and a 2019 presidential candidate, says that this makes young people all the more prone to join a gang, be a victim of a gang or, to avoid both, flee the country.According to a small study by the United Nations’s refugee agency, two-thirds of the child migrants from El Salvador surveyed cited violence as a reason for fleeing.“We can’t go back,” was a refrain that I heard again and again during the three years I spent reporting on unaccompanied minors from El Salvador and that I still hear from the dozens of Salvadorans I work with at a high school in Oakland, Calif. One 15-year-old student has had repeated panic attacks; she shakes uncontrollably and gasps for breath at the prospect of returning. “The gangs tried to recruit me into their group,” Jorge, who arrived here two years ago, told me this week. When he didn’t join, they threatened his life. “They’d kill me if I went back,” he said.Salvadorans like the young woman in my book are also fearing the impact of so many people being sent home so suddenly. El Salvador is home to 6.34 million people; the 200,000 deportees from the United States would mean a population increase of 3 percent. Where are these 200,000 people expected to go, and how will they possibly be absorbed? They won’t, Mr. Bukele says — or at least not without severely harming the economy and civil society.Millions of Salvadorans rely on remittances from the United States; last year some $4.5 billion was sent home. The loss of that money will make the G.D.P. plunge. “Our country doesn’t create opportunities for the Salvadorans who live here,” Mr. Bukele told The Los Angeles Times. “Imagine what we’re going to do with 200,000 more coming in.”The last time the United States mass-deported people to El Salvador was in the 1990s, when the country’s long civil war ended. Salvadorans who had come of age in low-income, violence-riddled communities in the United States took that violence back to El Salvador in the form of gangs modeled after American gangs.The violence in El Salvador today is a direct result of both American foreign policy during the Salvadoran civil war and the immigration policy immediately following. In vowing to send nearly 200,000 people back to a country plagued by violence, we seem destined to repeat the same mistakes, with consequences perhaps even more dire than before.It’s a phenomenon that Mr. Trump’s reported remarks about immigration policy — asking why the United States would want “all these people from shithole countries” — overlooks entirely.As a result of the administration’s decision, many Salvadorans who lose their temporary protected status will no doubt flee into the shadows in this country. And those forced back home, once they experience how dire the situation is there — and how much their mass arrival has wreaked havoc — will almost certainly risk their lives to return to the United States.Lauren Markham is the author of “The Far Away Brothers: Two Young Migrants and the Making of an American Life.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy HARA ESTROFF MARANOJAN. 12, 2018
SUPERNORMAL The Untold Story of Adversity and Resilience By Meg Jay, Ph.D. 387 pp. Twelve Books, $28One of the many disputes currently roiling American culture is just how psychologically strong we mortals are. Can we muster the wherewithal to master the difficulties that life typically tosses at us, sometimes at an early age, or are we sitting ducks apt to crumble with every disagreeable word that blows, especially across a college campus near you? Into this combat zone steps the psychologist Meg Jay with her second book, “Supernormal: The Untold Story of Adversity and Resilience.”With much passion, her earlier book, “The Defining Decade: Why Your Twenties Matter — And How to Make the Most of Them,” revealed the private quandaries of millennials seeking her out for psychotherapy and exposing a very different side of themselves than their public posts on Facebook. To “Supernormal,” Jay again brings her skill at telling the stories of her patients.There’s Sam, who was 9 when his father walked out on the family; Emily, the child of an alcoholic father; Paul, a nuclear engineer who was bullied as a kid; Jessie, who was dominated by her sister; the doctor-lawyer Elizabeth, whose parents focused on her special-needs brother; Nadia, orphaned in college when her parents were murdered; Martha, emotionally harassed by a mother who constantly criticized her appearance; Michelle, sexually abused by her polo coach; Vera, a daughter of neglect; Jennifer, born into a household marked by domestic violence; and others.Many are the ways that lives can get distressed. Unfortunately, we rarely learn exactly what turns misfortune into resilience. From the story of Emily, whose success at swimming was her ticket out of town, and that of Mara, the daughter of a bipolar mother, we learn that separating from one’s surroundings, in reality or fantasy, is a crucial act of self-preservation — a necessary, but hardly sufficient, first step in overcoming adversity.AdvertisementThroughout, the brain’s amygdala stars as the central player. The amygdala alerts us to threatening situations and kicks off the stress response, but invoking it, as Jay does, serves as kind of a diversionary tactic: It does not explain anything about how particular people wring adaptation out of distress, the real mental work it takes to transcend hardship. Jay never dissects the “impulse to fight for one’s own survival and to better one’s circumstances.” The upshot is scant insight into the mechanics of resilience.Of equal concern is the book’s title, “Supernormal.” Were this merely a case of alighting on a single, spectacular word to both signal the subject matter within and kindle the curiosity to explore it, it would merit little comment. The title, however, encodes the book’s deep muddle.Advertisement“To be resilient,” Jay declares, is “to live one’s life outside the average and expectable.” But research clearly establishes that adversity is the rule, even if those experiencing it feel alienated and “not normal.” Jay herself observes that “part of the myth of resilience is that the truly resilient are outliers.” And she discusses at length the famous Grant study, which, for nearly eight decades starting in 1938, closely tracked 268 Harvard graduates (yes, all white, all male, including John F. Kennedy and Ben Bradlee). Despite their largely privileged upbringings, Jay states, “not one of the Grant men enjoyed a charmed life — everyone struggled in some form or another.”Transcending troubles is an everyday event because most people are resilient. So why does Jay insist on suggesting that resilience is something other than usual, that it requires some superpower?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Jay’s labeling is a big deal because the name shapes our expectation of whether hardship is a trauma that flattens us or a challenge we are capable of mastering. Attitude matters too: It literally bends biology. Indeed, studies show that an optimistic approach blunts reactivity to stress, curbing the outpouring of hormones that can debilitate body and mind.Of course, danger lurks in acknowledging the strengths summoned by adversity: There’s always a critic who will see it as an endorsement of suffering. But that is akin to calling someone who recognizes that infection can confer lifelong immunity a cheerleader for mumps.Resilience has been a buzzword in psychology circles the past few years. However, “Supernormal” misses an opportunity to go beyond recounting stories of hardship to explore the countless idiosyncratic, endlessly creative ways in which most people struggle with disruption, find a path through it and come out the better for it.Hara Estroff Marano is the editor at large of Psychology Today and the author, most recently, of “A Nation of Wimps: The High Cost of Invasive Parenting.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.A version of this review appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page BR17 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Misfortune and Success.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.By ALAN RAPPEPORTJAN. 12, 2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s decision to attend the World Economic Forum, a global gathering of industry titans, government ministers, celebrities, activists and others at the mountain resort of Davos, Switzerland, raised eyebrows in Washington, given Mr. Trump’s professed disdain for the “globalists” who typically attend the retreat.But on Friday, one of his top economic advisers suggested that so-called Davos Men are closer to Average Joes.“I didn’t realize that it was the global elite,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, the administration official who will lead the delegation to Davos, said during an event sponsored by the Economic Club of Washington at the Ritz-Carlton hotel.Mr. Mnuchin went on to explain that the World Economic Forum was no more elitist than the Group of 20 gathering of finance ministers or meetings such as the annual Milken Institute conference, which brings together financiers and executives for discussions about the global economy.Advertisement“If you look at the list, there’s an awful lot of world leaders, there’s an awful lot of finance chairs, there’s an awful lot of business people,” Mr. Mnuchin said. “This is an important economic agenda.”AdvertisementThe World Economic Forum is not just any economic conference. The cost of a basic membership and ticket is more than $70,000, and attendees tend to incur heavy expenses on luxury cars or helicopters to get from the airport in Zurich to the resort in Davos, where panel discussions on subjects like global income inequality and the threat of climate change are held.Those attending include top executives like Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook, Bill Gates of Microsoft and Ginni Rometty of IBM, along with Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, and scores of other executives, economists and academics. Celebrities are also a mainstay, and last year’s forum included interviews with Matt Damon, Shakira and Forest Whitaker.The parties surrounding the conference also feature celebrities such as Bono and Leonardo DiCaprio. As for more interactive entertainment, one popular event is a simulation of a refugee’s experience, where attendees crawl on their hands and knees to better understand what it is like to evade an advancing army.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The World Economic Forum has in the past drawn scorn from anti-globalization groups as a symbol of lavishness and elitism, and at times attendees have tried to be less conspicuous. In the wake of the financial crisis in 2009, Gary D. Cohn, who is the director of Mr. Trump’s National Economic Council and was then chief operating officer at Goldman Sachs, was among the banking executives who opted to fly commercial to get to the forum.Mr. Trump will be the first president since Bill Clinton to attend. As a candidate, he lashed out at his opponent, Hillary Clinton, for being a patron of “globalists” and elite bankers. In 2014, Stephen K. Bannon, who went on to be Mr. Trump’s chief political strategist, said that working-class men and women were tired of being dictated to by “the party of Davos.”Some supporters of Mr. Trump have cast him as a populist “party crasher” at Davos, while others think the journey is unwarranted and unwise. Stephen Moore, the Heritage Foundation economist who advised Mr. Trump’s campaign, told CNN that he was not pleased by the decision.“I was disappointed that he’s going to Davos because I think it’s a lot of self-important people who have a totally different view of the world than he does,” Mr. Moore said.In an interview with The Wall Street Journal on Thursday, the president suggested that he was going to Davos to be “a cheerleader for the country” and highlight his economic success. Mr. Trump is expected to use the platform to boast about the improving American economy, including the rise in the stock market and the low jobless rate, and to deliver the type of protectionist message on trade that he gave during his Asia trip.Mr. Mnuchin, who has never attended the forum himself, said at a White House briefing on Thursday that the gathering was a good place to talk about the administration’s “‘American first’ economic strategy.”Advertisement“I don’t think it’s a hangout for globalists,” Mr. Mnuchin said.A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Global Elite  At Davos? That’s News To Mnuchin.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Andras BankutiPhotographing in socialist Hungary in the decades leading to democratic rule, Andras Bankuti knew that everything was political. Aware of taboo subjects – religion, poverty, drugs, among others – he resorted to self-censorship. “The second I pressed the shutter release,” he said, “I knew which of my pictures could not be published.” Hungary was ruled as a socialist republic from 1949 until 1989, when activists and intellectuals pressed the government to adopt a democratic political system with a revised constitution that affirmed civil rights. Mr. Bankuti’s images from the 1980s and 1990s straddle this complex period, and include intimate depictions of struggling families — people sleeping in the streets, piled together on a bed — as well as celebratory christenings and rousing political gatherings. And even as the state loosened its grip, he had to be careful about his audience.“All the conscientious reporters worked for their own archives,” he said. “The negatives got stored away in drawers, maybe shown to small professional audiences in exhibition rooms tucked away in nameless alleyways.”Mr. Bankuti was born into a bilingual family: His Russian-born mother took him to museums, and his Hungarian-born father was a radio reporter whom he accompanied to interviews. When a long hospitalization toward the end of high school forced him to miss preparations for university entrance exams, he decided to enroll in a vocational school for photography. He continued working in the photo departments of various publications, and for 16 years, he was both a photographer and the head of the photography department for HVG, an economics weekly. Along with Karoly Kincses and Magdolna Kolta, Mr. Bankuti founded the Hungarian Photographers House (Mai Manó House).His work from that era had a wide range. He photographed the fringe Hungarian punk scene, earning invitations to house parties and concerts, and his right to take photographs by paying for drinks. He has been taking pictures of the Ballet of Gyor since the company was founded in 1979, covering generations of dancers onstage and backstage, through lyrical moments and physical hardships. He portrayed precarious reality not only in Hungary, but also in neighboring countries, including the demolition of the Berlin Wall, the civil war in Yugoslavia and the fall of the Soviet Union. “I think I had an eye for the changes,” he said. “A good picture is a good picture everywhere, and with the right caption you can make the circumstances understandable even to those in different countries.”Throughout, he was guided by the desire to get close to his subjects.“I have to approach my subjects so that they feel my empathy, and reward me with their trust,” Mr. Bankuti said. “You can detect if either of these is lacking in a picture.” Gaining that trust was difficult when he started working for the press 40 years ago, an era when socialism seemed undefeatable and politics permeated every aspect of life.  “Even professional developments had shades of the political,” he said. “If certain changes seemed uncomfortable for the leadership, the initiator of the reform was soon proclaimed a traitor, an enemy of communism. This was especially true for the press.” During the ’80s, reporting on poverty, Romani, religion or employment difficulties was forbidden. “According to the media, no drugs, prostitution, or pollution existed in Hungary,” he noted. “In such circumstances, we all had self-censorship; people knew exactly what could be published or not, and what to try to slip through to photo competitions.”He recalled “investigations on cooked-up charges against me,” as well as when the head of the newly founded Hungarian stock exchange insinuated that a photo of his, depicting Transylvanian refugees sleeping at a railway station in Budapest, was “degrading the country.” Even the Hungarian Press Photo Competition provided an alternative outlet only in theory. When images he made of Pope John Paul II — that his editor discouraged him from even taking — were selected for exhibition, censors took them off the walls. Other images at the same exhibition were removed: one showing Russian foreign minister Andrei Gromyko in a hunting cap, rather than a hat; another showing nude extras on a film set. Restrictions loosened after 1988, although “the extent still depended on the individual editors’ courage, as criticism still posed an existential threat.” He recounted the risk of photographing an ailing Janos Kadar, the Hungarian communist leader and the General Secretary of the Hungarian Socialist Workers’ Party, who presided over the country from 1956 until 1988. “I took it at a public event, but still I had to look around to see if I was being watched by the state news agency’s employees. I could have easily been arrested. I took the picture because you could already sense, from his speeches, that he was on his way down,” Mr. Bankuti said. “I wanted to picture this state. Today it is an emblematic picture of the end of his regime.”Correction: January 10, 2018
An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified one of the subjects in the photograph. He is Sandor Gaspar, president of the Hungarian National Council of Trade Unions, not the Hungarian actor of the same name.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryBy HANNAH BEECH and SAW NANGJAN. 10, 2018
BANGKOK — Two journalists for the Reuters news agency were formally charged in Myanmar with obtaining state secrets, prosecutors said Wednesday, in a case seen as a key test of the country’s nascent political freedoms.The reporters, U Wa Lone and U Kyaw Soe Oo, have been accused of violating the Official Secrets Act, a law dating to the British colonial period that carries a maximum punishment of 14 years in prison.The journalists were brought to court in Yangon, Myanmar’s commercial capital, where they were arrested on Dec. 12, almost immediately after being given unidentified documents by members of the police.Before their arrest, the journalists had been investigating the existence of a mass grave in Rakhine State, where a military campaign against Rohingya Muslims has sent more than 655,000 members of the persecuted minority fleeing to Bangladesh over the past four and a half months.AdvertisementWhile the United States and the United Nations have called the campaign against the Rohingya ethnic cleansing, the Myanmar government has blocked independent investigators and journalists from the epicenter of violence, making it difficult to gather proof of atrocities.AdvertisementOn Wednesday evening, the military released the results of its investigation into the mass grave in the village of Inn Din, which the Reuters journalists had been investigating. A statement on the Facebook page of the military’s commander in chief, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, said that the 10 bodies there were of Muslims who had been taken to the cemetery and killed by villagers and security forces “because they were terrorists.”The army crackdown on the Rohingya began after Rohingya insurgents attacked security posts in late August.Rohingya in Bangladesh refugee camps have given consistent accounts of rape and murder at the hands of the Myanmar military and Buddhist vigilantes. Satellite images collected by human rights groups document the destruction by fire of hundreds of Rohingya villages in northern Rakhine.Negotiating a scrum of journalists gathered in front of the Insein courthouse in Yangon on Wednesday morning, Mr. Wa Lone struck a defiant pose, raising his cuffed hands and later flashing a thumbs-up sign.“We are not doing anything wrong,” Mr. Kyaw Soe Oo told journalists after the hearing. “Please help us by uncovering the truth.”A lawyer for both journalists, U Than Zaw Aung, said that Mr. Wa Lone is suffering from a hernia and back pain but has received no medical treatment while in detention. The next court appearance for his clients will be on Jan. 23, he said.“The situation is very unclear,” said Ma Pan Ei Mon, Mr. Wa Lone’s wife. “I’m hoping all the time that he will be released soon.”AdvertisementIn a statement, Stephen J. Adler, the president and editor in chief of Reuters, called the move to prosecute the reporters “a wholly unwarranted, blatant attack on press freedom,” adding, “We believe time is of the essence and we continue to call for Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo’s prompt release.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The United States and the European Union both called for the men’s release on Wednesday. “For democracy to succeed and flourish, journalists must be able to do their jobs,” the embassy said in a statement.Although Myanmar now has a civilian government, led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the military that ruled the country for nearly half a century still controls the most important levers of power. The Tatmadaw, as the military is known, runs the Home Ministry, which administers Myanmar’s internal affairs, including its prisons and police.Human rights groups have accused the police of entrapping the two Reuters journalists by giving them documents that were then deemed state secrets. Ms. Pan Ei Mon said her husband never had a chance to look at the papers before he was arrested.Myanmar’s elected civilian government has been accused of acquiescing to a crackdown on the media that belies the commitment to democratic values once espoused by Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s governing party, the National League for Democracy. Since the party took power in 2016, at least 32 journalists have been charged with various crimes, according to We Support Journalists, a local media watchdog.Many of the journalists have been imprisoned after reporting on abuses taking place in Myanmar’s ethnic frontier lands, where the military has been fighting various ethnic guerrilla groups for decades.U Swe Win, a veteran journalist and former political prisoner who is himself facing defamation charges that could return him to jail, noted that the news media, which had been muzzled during military rule, enjoyed a renaissance during a period of transitional governance from 2011-15, when U Thein Sein, a former junta general, led the country.Dozens of new publications emerged from the shadow of censorship in those years. But today, local reporters are uncertain whether their investigations, particularly into military malfeasance, might land them in jail.“Now we don’t have transparency, and we don’t know what’s happening inside the government,” Mr. Swe Win said. “All we know is that we journalists are always facing problems with the military, which means the civilian government has no power.”Hannah Beech reported from Bangkok, and Saw Nang from Mandalay, Myanmar.A version of this article appears in print on January 11, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Two Reporters For Reuters Face Charges  In Myanmar.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ROBERT SIMONSONJAN. 11, 2018
When he leaves his native Canada on business, Dave Zettel can’t be sure that the bartenders wherever he is headed to will know how to make his favorite drink. So he packs the ingredients. Mainly, this means stowing away a few containers of Clamato, the mix of tomato juice, sugar, spices and clam broth produced by Mott’s.Mr. Zettel, 31, isn’t an eccentric. His favorite drink is the favorite drink of many Canadians. It’s the Caesar, a spicy and piquant mixture typically composed of vodka, hot sauce, Worcestershire sauce, various spices and garnishes and, most critically, Clamato or some equivalent.On a 2015 trip to Thailand, Mr. Zettel hauled all the ingredients. He ran into a fellow Canadian there. “As soon as I brought out the Mott’s Clamato, he was the happiest man alive,” Mr. Zettel said. “And then we had Caesars on a random Thai beach.”At home in Yellowknife, in the Northwest Territories, Mr. Zettel doesn’t worry. A Caesar is always within reach there, as it is across the rest of the country.Advertisement“I’d say it’s our national cocktail,” he said. “You get the odd person who doesn’t like them.”AdvertisementShould you find yourself in a town without bars or restaurants, don’t worry. Many Canadian homes can provide emergency Caesar service.“Caesars taste like home,” said Christian McPhee, 45, who lives in Toronto and does information technology work in the financial industry. “It’s like comfort food for Canadians. For as long as I can remember, Caesars have been a part of my family’s get-togethers. My grandmother was the first I remember in my family always having them. My family had them at every beach bonfire, Canada Day celebration, long weekend and Sunday brunch.”
                A celebration of Canadian cuisine, from its indigenous chefs to its famous butter tarts and Caesars.            “They’ve always been there,” he added.Well, not quite always. The generally accepted history is that the drink was invented in 1969 in Calgary, Alberta, by a restaurant manager named Walter Chell. (There is, however, evidence of similar clam-and-tomato-juice drinks that predate it. The drink’s most obvious antecedent is the Bloody Mary, which has a longer history, though the Canadians interviewed for this article tend to think of that American favorite as a poor and distinctly less tasty relation.)The Caesar took off, and, with it rose the fortunes of Mott’s Clamato, which was introduced in the late 1960s. Though most Clamato is produced in the United States, one-third of its North American sales are in Canada. Most of that is poured into Caesars, according to Mott’s.Unlike the Bloody Mary, the Caesar isn’t consigned to the morning hours. “In Canada, anytime is a good time to drink a Caesar,” said Darcy O’Neil, a cocktail writer and former bartender who lives in London, Ontario. (And don’t call them Bloody Caesars, as many Americans do. Rookie mistake.)Though the Caesar has long been popular, there are signs of a recent jump in consumption.“When I first started bartending, it was few and far between that people ordered a Caesar,” said London Richard, 32, a Calgary bartender with 14 years of experience. “Over the last eight years, it became huge. I think people started realizing there’s so much potential behind it. It’s such a versatile cocktail. There are a million possibilities.”Mr. Richard lets that potential run wild at Sorso, a restaurant near Calgary where he is an owner. He offers a “Caesar bar” that allows customers to select which spirits, spices and garnishes go into their drinks.AdvertisementMott’s has encouraged that creativity by introducing additional Clamato flavors; Pickled Bean came out last year. There are also competing tomato-clam juices on the market, including Walter Craft Caesar Mix, which labels itself as an “all-natural” and “artisanal,” and Simp’s Serious Caesar Mix, which is vegan.So far, however, all this enthusiasm has stopped at the United States border. The Caesar stubbornly remains a Canadian phenomenon.“We assume everyone knows and loves Caesars,” Mr. McPhee said. “It’s not until you leave Canada that you realize no one else knows what they are.”Recipe: Caesar CocktailFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: One Country’s Spicy Cocktail Story.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.JAN. 9, 2018
Jesmyn Ward’s novel “Sing, Unburied, Sing” is our first pick for the PBS NewsHour-New York Times book club, “Now Read This.” Become a member of the book club by joining our Facebook group.Below are questions to help guide your discussions as you read the book over the next month. The questions are broken down by week, or divided into four parts to match your reading speed. You can also submit your own questions for Ward about the book here.Week One1. The first line comes from the point of view of Jojo, who says, “I like to think I know what death is. I like to think it’s something I could look at straight.” Why are these two things important to Jojo, and why do you think Ward chose to start the book this way?2. Tracy K. Smith, in her review of the novel for The New York Times Book Review, says of the fictional town Bois Sauvage, Miss.: It “is as mired in its own history as, frankly, most real places in America.” It’s a history that includes violence and ever-present racism. What do you think Ward wants us to understand about that history? How much has changed, or how little?Advertisement3. Early on in the book, Leonie insists on taking her children on a road trip to pick up their father Michael from Parchman prison. Why must she bring her children? What is it that you think brought Michael and Leonie together initially, and what is it that pulls them apart?Week Two4. Leonie’s neglect and indifference of her children is present throughout the novel. Why does she treat them so poorly? Is it simply that her love for herself gets in the way, as Mam says, or is it more complicated than that? What role does her grief play in how she parents?5. In October, Ward told the NewsHour’s Jeffrey Brown that the use of the supernatural in a novel “has to make sense. It has to be believable.” Did you find the ghosts believable? And why do you think they play such prominent characters in the novel?6. Pop’s stories often involve the ghost of the young boy, Richie, but he rarely speaks about his own deceased son. Is the fixation with one related to the other? What does it tell us about Pop and his own grief?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.7. Leonie describes her friend Misty, who is white, this way: “Her freckles, her thin pink lips, her blond hair, the stubborn milkiness of her skin; how easy had it been for her, her whole life, to make the world a friend to her?” What do you make of how Leonie perceives Misty?Week Three8. At one point in the novel the ghost of Richie says he assumes Parchman prison, which long operated like a plantation, must have changed over time. But when he returns, he describes the “new” Parchman as a place where men sit “for hours in small, windowless rooms staring at big black boxes that streamed dreams.” Is it significant that Parchman has not changed for the better?Advertisement9. The book follows three generations: Mam and Pop, Leonie and Michael, and Jojo and Kayla. Which generation do you find yourself understanding and empathizing with the most? Which characters did you find it harder to connect with, and why?10. The novel is told from multiple characters’ points of view: Jojo, Leonie, Richie. Why do you think Ward chose to tell the story from these perspectives, and why do you think the other characters don’t serve as narrators: Mam, Pop and Michael, for example?Week Four11. As you near the end of the book, why do you think Ward chose the title “Sing, Unburied, Sing”?12. One of the epigraphs of the book is this line from Southern Gothic writer Eudora Welty: “Memory is a living thing,” she writes, and that “all that is remembered joins, and lives — the old and the young, the past and the present, the living and the dead.” How did this statement on memory echo throughout the novel?13. Why do you think Ward chose to end the book with the tree of ghosts and young Kayla telling the ghosts to “go home”?We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SAM SIFTONJAN. 10, 2018
Good morning. There’s a lot of exciting reading in the Food section we sent to the printing plants last night and delivered to the vicinity of front doors and driveways this chilly morning. Ligaya Mishan takes us all on vacation to Hawaii, where she’s from, to eat poke and experience it in its indigenous form, far superior to anything you’ll ever find on the mainland. For “Beers of The Times,” Eric Asimov and his merry band of tasters dive deep into the pleasures of brown ale. Pete Wells reviews Ferris, a new New American restaurant in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan.And Tejal Rao brings forth a delightful profile of Angie Mar, the chef and an owner of the Beatrice Inn in Manhattan, which includes a recipe of Ms. Mar’s for an impressively large English-style meat pie with potatoes and brown gravy, with a marrow bone roasted right into it. Some, like me, will want to make that as soon as this weekend, a kind of cry against winter in place of a flight to Kailua. (Though we’d take that flight if we could, for sure. You ever see how they fish for giant trevally there?)Tonight, though, I think most will want to cook simply, get some grub on the table soon as possible. That is the way of the world in the middle of the week, and, though we ache to change many things about our state of affairs, that is not one of them. You won’t even need a recipe! Just cook some pasta — ziti, for instance, for that’s what is on the shelf — in salted water, and drain it just before it is done, reserving a cup of the cooking water.While the pasta cooks, melt a honking big knob of unsalted butter in a pan large enough to hold the pasta and cook some diced onions or shallots in it until they’re translucent. Add some slivered sage leaves and finish cooking the pasta in all of that, making a kind of sauce with around a half-cup of the cooking water and a healthy shower of grated Parmesan — like, at least a cup. Season liberally with kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper and — here’s a twist — serve the whole thing on a bed of raw baby greens, which will melt a little in the heat, while still retaining some crunch. Dinner is served.AdvertisementThat’s one idea, anyway. You could make burgers instead. Or smothered chicken. Or rice noodles with spicy pork and herbs. You ever try a weeknight omelet mousseline for supper? Oh, buddy. It’s a classic French technique in which the egg whites are whipped before you fold in the yolks, which are mixed with cream. It all results in a lighter, fluffier specimen than the classic. You can play down the fanciness by serving it with hot sauce or ketchup, with buttered toast, and get your “Nighthawk” on.AdvertisementYou will find thousands of other recipes to cook tonight and in coming days at NYT Cooking, at least once you’ve taken out a subscription to the site and apps. Please do so, and join our growing community of the delicious. We’ll be here to help you if anything goes wrong. Just write if you run into a problem with a recipe or with the technology we use to support our work: cookingcare@nytimes.com. Someone will get back to you with advice or a solution.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Now, will you do yourself a favor? Take a look at your dish towels tonight, and, if they are as stained and torn and grayed-out as the ones in mine, send them out to the garage or workshop, where they can live out their lives helping to mop up grease and errant sprays of penetrating oil. After the last two months of cooking holiday feasts, it’s my view that you (that I!) deserve new ones. My colleagues at Wirecutter can tell you which to buy and why. (I’m going with the striped numbers from Crate and Barrel, I think.)Also, are you Canadian or at any rate in or proximate to Ontario or Quebec? I’ll be in both provinces next week, making like a food-world Mike Allen. On Monday, I’ll interview the reporter David Sax on stage at the University of Toronto, where we’ll talk about how Syrian refugees have enlivened the city’s restaurant scene. And then on Tuesday, I’ll talk Québécois cuisine with the chef and restaurateur David McMillan at the Corona in Montreal. (To access that link, type “NYTCooking” into the password prompt.) Come join us.Finally, there’s a new James Lee Burke novel out, “Robicheaux,” and if you haven’t read him, start with “The Neon Rain” and have a good winter. The series runs to 21 books. See you on Friday.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 9, 2018
Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Kodak plans to create its own virtual currency.• President Trump plans to attend the World Economic Forum.• Just how rich is Jeff Bezos?• The shine is coming off the tech industry more and more. • Talk of an Oprah presidential run has boosted at least one company. Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.Shares of Kodak surged 34 percent after the company said it said it was launching a “major blockchain initiative.”The company and WENN Digital announced the creation of KODAKOne, an image rights management platform, and KODAKCoin, a virtual token “to allow photographers and agencies to take greater control in image rights management.”Advertisement“For many in the tech industry, ‘blockchain’ and ‘cryptocurrency’ are hot buzzwords, but for photographers who’ve long struggled to assert control over their work and how it’s used, these buzzwords are the keys to solving what felt like an unsolvable problem,” said Jeff Clarke, Kodak’s chief executive.AdvertisementErik Holm of MoneyBeat writes:“For the past several years, people have been experimenting with ways to adapt the technology behind bitcoin, usually called blockchain. At its essence, blockchain is an open record of transactions, maintained in an online ledger that is distributed across a network of computers, that cannot be tampered with. That makes it like an indelible timestamp, which could be useful in a case of copyright and digital rights management.”Kodak plans to hold an initial coin offering for KODAKCoin on Jan. 31. Coin offerings, which allow companies to raise money by creating their own private digital currency through a form of online crowdfunding, have surged in popularity during the past 12 months.Kodak’s shares are just the latest to get a digital currency boost. The stocks of a number of companies have surged in recent months after those firms rebranded themselves as having something to do digital currencies or blockchain.Critic’s corner: Kodak is “betting its future on digital currencies with an initial coin offering designed to help photographers sell their work. The crypto buzz more than doubled its stock, but it’s unlikely to do anything like the same to the company’s sales or profit,” writes Tom Buerkle of Breakingviews.— Stephen GrocerThe chief executive of Renault-Nissan has escalated the auto industry’s technology-driven arms race.The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi Alliance said Tuesday it is setting up a venture capital fund to invest $1 billion in automotive technologies over the next five years. Mr. Ghosn pushed for the fund “to speed development of technologies that the three automakers don’t have in-house,” the WSJ reported.More about the fund:• It’s named Alliance Ventures.• Francois Dossa is leading the fund and will have teams in Silicon Valley, Paris, Japan and China looking for startups in which to invest.• The fund has already invested in Ionic Materials, a Woburn, Mass., startup working to develop solid-state batteries.AdvertisementAutomakers have poured money into automobile technology startups in recent years. General Motors bought Cruise Automation in a deal potentially valued at more than $1 billion. Last summer Toyota set up a $100 million investing arm called Toyota AI Ventures.From Reuters:“The traditional auto industry model based on individual ownership is threatened by pay-per-use services such as Uber, as well as ride- and car-sharing platforms, a challenge heightened by parallel shifts towards electrified and self-driving cars.”Stephen Bannon, President Trump’s former chief strategist, was ousted from his post as executive chairman at Breitbart News, the right-wing website he used as a mouthpiece.From The New York Times:Stephen K. Bannon is stepping down from his post as executive chairman of Breitbart News, the company announced Tuesday.Mr. Bannon’s departure, which was forced by a onetime financial patron, Rebekah Mercer, comes as Mr. Bannon remained unable to quell the furor over remarks attributed to him in a new book in which he questions President Trump’s mental fitness and disparages his elder son, Donald Trump Jr.Mr. Bannon’s departure from the website is the latest ignominious turn in a career that was once one of the most promising and improbable in modern American politics.Here’s what White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told Maggie Haberman and Michael Shear of the NYT:“At this year’s World Economic Forum, the president looks forward to promoting his policies to strengthen American businesses, American industries, and American workers.”He’ll be the first U.S. president to do so since Bill Clinton in 2000. The BBC previously noted that Ronald Reagan spoke to the crowd at the World Economic Forum via videoconference, but that neither of the Bushes nor Barack Obama attended. (Joe Biden did, however.)Why? As the NYT adds, presidents have been concerned that being seen rubbing shoulders with some of the world’s wealthiest might send the wrong political message. (Other heads of state, like Xi Jinping of China, have attended.)One additional note: Having attended the forum a few times, I’d say that one thing that a visit from Mr. Trump would definitely do is make the traffic in Davos during the event — which often moves at a glacial pace as V.I.P.’s vehicular escorts crawl through the windy streets — probably more difficult.— Michael J. de la MercedShot: “Jeff Bezos is now the richest person of all time,” CNN reported. (The Bloomberg article that the news item cited makes no such claim.)Chaser: 
            Sorry, this just isn't accurate. Fugger, the 16th century banker, was worth $400bn in 2010 $s. Rockefeller $330bn+ Carnegie $300bn+ https://t.co/0uvtivrtsv — Michael J. de la MercedLet’s count the ways:• Apple is being pressed to protect young users from smartphone addiction by an unusual coalition: the hedge fund Jana Partners and the California public pension fund Calstrs.• Alphabet, Facebook and Twitter are under scrutiny over Russia’s use of social media to manipulate elections.• Amazon is facing scrutiny for its effect on jobs.• Europe is examining many U.S. tech companies on competition and privacy grounds.AdvertisementAs Barry Rosenstein, the managing partner of Jana, told David Gelles of the NYT:“As more and more founders of the biggest tech companies are acknowledging today, the days of just throwing technology out there and washing your hands of the potential impact are over.”The growing fear about tech addiction: Two former Facebook executives, Sean Parker and Chamath Palihapitiya, spoke last year about how the company hooks into users’ psyches. And Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, held a briefing on the issue. (Axios has more.)One place you don’t yet see a problem: These companies’ stocks. Apple’s shares dipped only slightly yesterday, and its market capitalization is still just shy of $900 billion. Shares in Facebook, Alphabet and Twitter gained slightly.Critics’ corner• Shira Ovide writes, “When financial mercenaries start caring about the potential human harm of technology, Silicon Valley should be extremely nervous.” (Gadfly)• Jennifer Saba writes of Jana’s campaign, “It’s an unusual issue for an activist, and apps from Facebook and Snap would make better targets.” (Breakingviews)Shares in the weight-loss company, of which Ms. Winfrey owns 10 percent, jumped as much as 13 percent yesterday amid speculation that she may run for president.Not everyone was as euphoric about the possibility. Here’s what Rebecca Katz, a Democratic strategist, told the NYT:“Beating Trump isn’t just about finding the right candidate — we have to show what we stand for,” Ms. Katz said. “Other than ‘we all get a car,’ what will an Oprah presidency look like?” she added, referring to when Ms. Winfrey famously gave a car to every audience member at her show.It comes down to how they respond to the provision that taxes the income of overseas subsidiaries at half the domestic rate — even as Mr. Trump has promised to bring jobs back to struggling cities.Companies have a new reason to move plants abroad, Natalie Kitroeff of the NYT reports:“Having such a low rate on foreign income is outrageous,” said Stephen E. Shay, a senior lecturer at Harvard Law School and a Treasury Department official during the Reagan and Obama administrations. “It creates terrible incentives.”The caveat: Some companies may want to stay, for America’s legal system and skilled workers. But big manufacturers like auto companies may be tempted to move anyway.More in taxes• Mr. Trump celebrated the passing of the tax overhaul in Nashville, where he overstated the size of the cuts. (NYT)Advertisement• Residents of high-tax states rushed to prepay their bills before deductions are capped, giving those areas a welcome, if brief, revenue boost. (Bloomberg)• Robert Mueller is likely to seek an interview with President Trump as part of his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. (NYT)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Meet the former WSJ reporter who founded Fusion GPS, the research firm whose work is central to the Russia investigations. (NYT)• Good economic conditions tend to lift presidents’ approval ratings. Not this one’s. (NYT)• Mr. Trump told farmers in Nashville that he wants to improve Nafta, but didn’t repeat his threats to withdraw. (WSJ)• The hedge fund billionaire Tom Steyer said he wouldn’t run for political office this year, but would give Democrats $30 million to fight fore House seats. (WaPo)• The NYT reviewer found “Fire and Fury,” Michael Wolff’s book on the Trump White House, “fitting, if ultimately unsatisfying.” (NYT)• Some Senate Republicans are quietly urging J.D. Vance, the investor and author of the book “Hillbilly Elegy,” to run against Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. (Politico)Federal regulators blocked an Energy Department proposal to subsidize struggling coal and nuclear power plants. That raises questions about what else the Trump administration can do to prop up an industry that — even as pollution regulations loosen — is being battered by market forces.AdvertisementMore from Brad Plumer of the NYT:Last year, utilities announced plans to shut down more than 22 gigawatts of coal capacity across the country, and more retirements are expected this year. Mr. Perry’s proposal was the most aggressive move yet in support of coal and nuclear power and would have shielded a number of plants in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic from those competitive forces.The policy flyaround• A Senate resolution to block the F.C.C.’s repeal of net neutrality rules has enough support to force a vote — but the House is unlikely to follow suit. (Axios)• The Labor Department revived guidance on overtime regulations from the George W. Bush era. (WaPo)The plaintiff: James Damore, the engineer who gained fame when he was fired for criticizing Google’s diversity efforts and asserting that fewer women held engineering jobs because of biological differences.His lawsuit: It claims that he and others were “ostracized, belittled and punished for their heterodox political views, and for the added sin of their birth circumstances of being Caucasians and/or males.” It also includes screenshots from internal company forums.The context: Google is already responding to a lawsuit from four women asserting that it has systematically paid women less than men for the same work.• AT&T has backed out of a long-awaited deal to sell Huawei phones in the U.S., according to unnamed sources. (WSJ)• Intel’s C.E.O., Brian Krzanich, said there had been “no known exploits” compromising consumers’ information using two recently revealed chip security flaws. (Axios)• Google, Amazon and Samsung are adding their virtual assistants to ever more devices, including — seriously — refrigerators.Advertisement• Advocates for women in technology say that CES must address its diversity problem. (Recode)Questions about CES? Ask Brian Chen, the NYT’s personal tech columnist.Speaking of gadgetsGoPro disappointed Wall Street yesterday morning when it cut its sales expectations for its fourth quarter, saying it would lay off more than 250 employees and stop making drones. Its founder and C.E.O., Nick Woodman, cut his cash salary to $1.The company’s shares climbed back amid news reports that it had hired JPMorgan Chase to run a sales process. But Mr. Woodman eventually told Bloomberg that while JPMorgan is the company’s main bank, GoPro wasn’t actively looking to sell itself.GoPro’s problem: It’s too dependent on its action cameras, according to Dan Gallagher of Heard on the Street.Some investors have apparently decided that protecting themselves against a decline in the markets is a waste of money, Gunjan Banerji of the WSJ reports:“I haven’t seen hedging activity this light since the end of the financial crisis,” said Peter Cecchini, a New York-based chief market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald. “It started in late 2016 and accelerated in the second half of the year.”At the same time, analysts have raised their forecasts for corporate profits as fast as they have in a decade. History suggests that might presage a slump.“That’s made it the best penny stock and the worst currency in the world.”— Matt O’Brien of the WaPo, writing about why Bitcoin is doing well as a speculative investment and terribly as a way to buy and sell things. (For what it’s worth, Jamie Dimon now regrets calling Bitcoin a “fraud,” though he’s still not interested in it.)Or maybe it’s this, from the S.E.C.’s Fort Worth division:• Jack Ma said he would seriously consider listing Alibaba in Hong Kong, which is preparing to allow dual-class share listings. (Reuters)• A website called coinmarketcap.com removed data from some South Korean exchanges from its price quotes on Monday, prompting drops in some popular cryptocurrencies. (WSJ)Advertisement• Saudi Aramco has invited banks pitching for roles in its listing, including Citi and Goldman Sachs, to go to the kingdom to make their case, according to three people familiar with the matter. (Reuters)• The private equity group Rhône Capital has placed a binding offer to acquire Nestlé’s U.S. confectionary business, joining Ferrero and Hershey in the $2.5 billion race. (FT)• Amazon’s rising share price brought Jeff Bezos’s net worth to $105.1 billion on Monday, beyond the high Bill Gates reached in 1999. (Bloomberg)• The telecoms group Altice will spin off its U.S. business and restructure its European operations to address investor concerns about the group’s viability and debt-laden deals. (FT)• The quantitative hedge fund industry is on the brink of surpassing $1 trillion in assets under management after an increase in automated investment. (FT)• Investors are souring on meal-kit start-ups. They cite logistical hurdles, high costs for attracting and retaining customers and big-company competition. (WSJ)• Aston Martin is targeting a valuation of as much as $6.8 billion in a potential initial public offering, according to people familiar with the matter. (Bloomberg)• An expensive, highly classified U.S. spy satellite is presumed lost after it failed to reach orbit on a SpaceX rocket on Sunday, according to industry and government officials. (WSJ)• Banks are aggressively handing out leveraged loans to highly indebted companies, because the fees offer strong revenue growth when many of their traditional businesses are posting low returns. (Bloomberg)AdvertisementWe’d love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Shawn Walker/Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryAs a young man growing up in Harlem, Shawn Walker was shaped not just by what he saw at museums, but also what he heard in clubs. “I grew up as a jazz kid,” Mr. Walker, 77, said. “I heard all the avant-garde players, major influences like John Coltrane and Lee Morgan… Jazz takes something ordinary and changes it. Jazz was the background music to my life.”These influences led him to see photography as more than just visual reporting. As a founding member of the Kamoinge Workshop, the influential black photo collective, he was inspired by his colleagues, especially Roy DeCarava. “Roy opened my eyes to photography as art,” recalled Mr. Walker. “I’ve always considered myself an artist. It’s not just talking about a social condition. I’m trying to approach it artistically.” A continuing exploration of the relationship of race to photographic portrayals of race by the professor and curator Maurice Berger.With a career spanning half a century, Mr. Walker is just now having his first retrospective in a show opening this week at New York’s Steven Kasher Gallery.  The images reflect his belief that “photography has always been magic” for him, ever since his teenage years in Harlem, with his uncle, a photographer, being an early influence. He pursued his passion at Benjamin Franklin High School in East Harlem, which had a photography program and darkroom. Mr. Walker’s photographs are aesthetically rich, even as he documents the lives of regular people engaged in everyday activities and rituals. His images reveal the paradoxes and nuances in his subjects’ lives: a woman in a stylish hat asleep on the steps of a Harlem tenement; the words, “Black Power,” scrawled across a run-down Romanesque style façade; children in Halloween masks standing in darkened and ominous doorways; a Batman logo, hovering apparition-like on a paint-splattered wall; the ramshackle door of a church marked with a cross; and regal women in evening gowns seated on parade floats. Mr. Walker’s layered and complex images are influenced by a range of artists and photographers who, in addition to Mr. DeCarava, include Charles White, Romare Bearden, Jacob Lawrence, Henri Cartier-Bresson and Minor White. Above all, he sees himself as a latter-day surrealist, pushing the formal and conceptual boundaries of photography. “I’ve always been taken by Surrealism,” Mr. Walker said, fascinated by its penchant for teasing out the extraordinary in commonplace things and situations.Mr. Walker refers to his photographs as “found images,” echoing the surrealist concept of the found object — a random artifact that inspires deeper aesthetic or cultural meaning. “I always wanted to make the distinction that I’m not creating images,” he said. “These are images that I find, that catch my eye, that I see something I’m interested in.”Mr. Walker’s interest in Surrealism includes its popular manifestation in film noir, especially the raking shadows and histrionic lighting of the stylish Hollywood crime dramas of the 1940s and 1950s. His photographs resonate with these flourishes, transforming the cityscape into multifaceted and haunting pictures: a mysterious pointing hand, silhouetted against a light-dappled street; the face of a child in a metallic party hat, illuminated by an intense streak of light; the roof and turrets of a Harlem building encircled by dramatic sky; or dismembered mannequins in a Harlem store window, their lower torsos discreetly draped in rags.Ultimately, there is also a political dimension to these photographs — exemplified by the image of the photographer’s ghost-like reflection in a shattered window, a play on the tension between black obscurity and presence in “Invisible Man,” Ralph Ellison’s epochal novel. “I always want to be recognized as a black photographer,” Mr. Walker said. “I am an African American first and a photographer second. I derive my creativity from an African aesthetic.” His photographs reflect this sentiment, examining everyday black life and exploring its culture with a depth rarely seen in mainstream art. It was extremely important, he said, to “have people see themselves photographed by their own kind.” In these images, Mr. Walker liberates his subjects from stereotypes and invisibility, no more so than in his continuing “Parade” series. For 30 years, he has photographed ethnic parades, focusing on their cultural and ceremonial details, from clothing and costumes to marching bands and elaborate floats. In their inclusiveness and range, these photographs track the similarities and differences of public celebrations of identity across racial lines. For Mr. Walker, who was a picture editor of the pioneering Black Photographer’s Annual from 1973 until 1980, photography can tell us much about the world in which we live and the ideals to which we aspire. “I look for truth within the image, for the multi-layers of existence, for the ironies that are our everyday lives,” he wrote in an artist’s statement. “I try to reflect on the positive aspects of my community and to see the relationship between various communities of color. My work reflects a black aesthetic, but tries to speak to everyone.” Maurice Berger is a research professor and the chief curator at the Center for Art, Design and Visual Culture at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryAdvertisementSupported byBy Frank BruniThe metabolism of the media is such that we moved, within 20 hours, from the exhortation that Oprah Winfrey run for president (roughly 11 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on Sunday) to the reading of rune stones about whether she’d be game (8 a.m. Monday) to the analysis of her chances of victory (2 p.m.) to the deconstruction of what it all said about America (7 p.m.).Sometime Wednesday the speculation about what she’ll wear to her inauguration should commence. By Saturday we’ll be reviewing the campaign missteps that sent her poll numbers into free fall, and the pundits on the Sunday morning talk shows can bicker over which of her confidantes and handlers are to blame.But I’d like to go back to the analysis-of-her-chances phase and to something that came up among the analyzers: Is Oprah too much a replay of Trump, in that she’s another unfathomably famous billionaire with no experience in government? Or do their differences far outnumber their similarities, in that she’s a black woman as earnest about personal improvement as he is convinced of his superhuman perfection?The answer matters, because there’s a compelling theory that when voters change presidents, they want a departure, someone poised to correct many of the flaws and fill in many of the holes that his (or her!) predecessor had.But the question misses a big player and big part of the equation. Oprah’s ability to excite Democrats and independents doesn’t hinge entirely, or even mainly, on whether she’s the un-Trump. It has more to do with her being the un-Clinton.Barely a day goes by when Trump’s behavior doesn’t fill most Democrats with despair, and they have spent the first year of his presidency torturing and berating themselves: How did such a spectacularly unqualified person with such a proudly offensive nature manage to win the Electoral College?While there’s a brimming grab bag of possible explanations (Vladimir Putin, James Comey, Facebook), nearly all of the Democrats I know maturely admit that one factor can’t be dismissed, and their regret about it intensifies over time. The party put its chips on the wrong candidate.Wrong not because Hillary Clinton is a woman — though that may have hurt — and not because she lacked seasoning, skills and a plan. Clinton checked all of those boxes.But she was a terrible fit for the times, which were anti-elitist, anti-erudition, anti-Washington. To many voters, she was a career politician who had been pining and plotting for the presidency her whole life. And she had spent so much time at the center of so much controversy. She was exhausting.On top of which, she had trouble connecting with voters. She acknowledged as much in her speech at the Democratic National Convention. It was smoothly delivered but nothing soaring. Nothing that gave goose bumps.Oprah soars. Oprah gives goose bumps. That’s her métier, and where Clinton wants for charisma, Oprah overflows with it. She’s the Niagara Falls of charisma, and as warm to the touch as Clinton can be cold.Over decades in public life, Clinton struggled to find the best, most poignant way to invoke her family background and tell her life story, but she never got it as right as Oprah did in the brief autobiographical parts of her remarks at the Golden Globes on Sunday night.And no one can call Oprah a Washington insider.None of this is an argument for her candidacy, which would be a mistake in many ways. How effectively could Democrats disparage Trump as a political novice who got in over his head if they were backing another novice, no matter how much more serious-minded she was?Are we ready to surrender this fully to celebrity as a currency above all others? Do we not understand that as soon as Oprah entered into partisan tussles and made tough political decisions, she’d be Oprah no more?I’m betting that she realizes it and won’t run in the end, for that reason and another: She lacks Trump’s shamelessness, which enabled him to transcend his unpreparedness for the office. He was happy to claim knowledge that he didn’t possess and stake out positions to which he’d given minimal thought because, hey, he was Trump! Details and facts paled beside his majesty and his needs. Why worry about credentials when there’s applause to be savored?I don’t think I’m idealizing Oprah when I say that she’s probably too aware of what she’s unaware of to follow Trump’s lead, and that he rushed in where she’ll rightly fear to tread.But the Oprah hoopla is a lesson to Democrats and a clue to which of them might ultimately get the party’s nomination. That person will be as brightly inspirational as Trump is darkly confrontational. That person will radiate empathy.That person may not be Oprah. But he or she will be Oprah-esque.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionThomas Chatterton WilliamsAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLoose EndsBy Bari WeissNew Year’s Resolution: Read great literature!New Year’s Reality: Outmaneuver an elderly woman to nab your bookstore’s last copy of “Fire and Fury.” Continue to use “Middlemarch” as a coaster.New Year’s Resolution: Remain active in the Resistance!New Year’s Reality: Call your senator exactly once and hang up when put on hold. Then reward yourself by watching Season 2 of “The Crown” in a single sitting.New Year’s Resolution: Exercise daily!New Year’s Reality: Pay well over $150 a month for a luxury gym. Then hunch over your keyboard for 12 hours a day. When you notice your back hurts, sink deeper into your office chair and accept your early-onset arthritis. This is your life now.New Year’s Resolution: Make healthy dinners with nary a carbohydrate in sight!New Year’s Reality: Spend two hours poring over old Mark Bittman easy weeknight recipes. Go so far as to draw up a grocery list for a simple salmon dinner. Then log on to Seamless and order chicken fingers with extra honey mustard. Allow yourself an order of onion rings because your period is in two weeks and you’re definitely PMS-ing. When you don’t hit the minimum order amount, throw in three cans of regular Coke. Blame society’s blinkered beauty standards for the fact that your pants no longer zip.New Year’s Resolution: Get out of your comfort zone!New Year’s Reality: Recoil when encountering a viewpoint you find offensive at a party. Leave immediately and seek refuge scrolling through your Facebook feed in bed. Tell yourself that this will make a great think piece.New Year’s Resolution: Download a mindfulness app!New Year’s Reality: Put the app on the fourth screen of your iPhone, right next to “stocks” and “wallet.” Then proceed to download Tinder and delete it the next day. Repeat indefinitely.New Year’s Resolution: Order a print newspaper subscription because democracy dies in darkness!New Year’s Reality: Read the news on Twitter. Let the papers pile up and throw them out with the regular garbage.New Year’s Resolution: Indulge yourself by soaking in the tub!New Year’s Reality: Close your eyes and breathe in the aroma of the lavender bath crystals you got at the farmers market. Praise yourself for buying local. Breathe out and open your eyes to a deep gray ring in your tub. Cringe. Order a six-pack of magic erasers on Amazon.New Year’s Resolution: Keep a journal!New Year’s Reality: Text GIFs compulsively while your Moleskine remains untouched on your nightstand. One frustrating day at work, turn to it to vent, but stop yourself because the creamy paper doesn’t deserve your negativity.New Year’s Resolution: Buy essential oils!New Year’s Reality: Type the following into Google: “What are essential oils and what do they do and how do I use them.” Toss them under your sink.New Year’s Resolution: Get eight hours of sleep!New Year’s Reality:  … If you have the time after reading the full Wikipedia entries for Watergate and Charles Manson, then watching three makeup tutorials and a “West Wing” episode on your laptop. Remember: Using your phone 15 minutes before bedtime can mess up your R.E.M. sleep.New Year’s Resolution: Stop comparing yourself to your friends!New Year’s Reality: Stare at your best friend’s engagement ring. Really stare at it. It’s so big and gorgeous. Flashy, really. Frankly, it’s inappropriate.New Year’s Resolution: Walk to work!New Year’s Reality: Put on your sneakers and venture out. Become convinced that you’re getting frostbite after four blocks, which, conveniently, is the location of your favorite coffee shop. Stop in for a croissant and a cappuccino. Order an Uber.New Year’s Resolution: Delete Uber!New Year’s Reality: Who are you kidding?Bari Weiss (@bariweiss) is a staff editor and writer for the Opinion section.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy MARK LEIBOVICHJAN. 9, 2018
Tom Brady was leading a tour through a set of fat binders that he keeps in his den, with each one devoted to one of the 18 seasons he has played in the N.F.L. This one, marked “2016,” began with a particular memento.“I still keep this,” Brady, the New England Patriots quarterback, said, holding a document up to the camera. “It’s my suspension letter.”That would be the missive he received from 345 Park Avenue informing him he would be sidelined for the first four games of the 2016 season for his role in the still-hard-to-believe football air-pressure “scandal” known as Deflategate. As the camera focused on Brady, his face became stuck in a smile that could be characterized as something between goofy and satisfied (and with the whiff of a smirk).“Thank you,” Brady said, to whom it was not clear exactly. He turned the page, and next thing you know he was winning another ring.AdvertisementThe scene transpires early in the first installment of a new documentary series, “Tom vs. Time,” which will be posted later this month via Facebook’s mobile video platform, Facebook Watch. The series follows Brady not just as he has pursued his sixth Super Bowl championship in 2017, but also — as the title indicates — as he conducts his ongoing subversion campaign against the actuarial tables of quarterback longevity.AdvertisementFilmmaker Gotham Chopra was granted sweeping access to Brady in an array of intimate settings that the inscrutable signal-caller would normally be loath to allow. There is extensive footage of Brady at his Brookline, Mass., home, with his children, with his wife, Gisele Bündchen, on family retreats to Costa Rica, on a bro-trip to Montana (with teammates Julian Edelman and Danny Amendola), on a summer tour of China with his son Jack, and in the car during Brady’s commute to and from work in Foxborough, Mass.The sequence of the Brady children singing along to Vance Joy’s “Riptide” while dad drives home from the stadium after a November win over Miami is, to use the artistic term, rather precious.One venue where Brady is barely seen: Gillette Stadium, or pretty much anywhere in the Patriots’ facilities. For a player who has been the epitome of the Patriots team-first philosophy, Brady would seem an unlikely candidate to open such a close-up lens upon his off-field self, especially during the season — and especially for a project set to drop during the playoffs. A player not placing undue attention upon himself would constitute a first principle of Coach Bill Belichick’s colorless “Do Your Job” collectivism. That is one of the many remarkable aspects of “Tom vs. Time.”It is unclear if Brady has even told his coach about the project. The Patriots spokesman Stacey James said the team was nominally aware that a Brady documentary was in the works, and tried to be helpful in providing credentials on the few occasions Chopra sought access to home games. Beyond that, the answer of how much Brady’s bosses were informed about “Tom vs. Time” remains shrouded in some Patriot-esque mystery.This takes on some added resonance in light of an ESPN report last week describing deep tensions between Brady and Belichick, the twin pillars of the N.F.L.’s 21st Century dynasty. No doubt “Tom vs. Time” could provide more grist for the distraction mill that N.F.L. teams avoid so strenuously, nowhere more so than Bunker Bill, this famously locked-down football enclave between Boston and Providence.In addition, Belichick is almost completely absent in the series. His offensive coordinator, Josh McDaniels, rather, is portrayed as Brady’s ever-present coaching foil, making cameos via speakerphone (or video chat) as Brady pores through game film and brainstorms ideas for new plays for upcoming games.Chopra, son of the prolific New Age author Deepak Chopra, grew up a Patriots fan in Lincoln, Mass. He spent several years working as a television journalist around the world before settling in Los Angeles, where he met Brady though mutual friends nearly a decade ago.AdvertisementChopra had become interested in exploring the spiritual side of sports and competition, the deep connections drawn and emotions elicited around the games we play and watch. He had spoken from time to time with Brady about this, and for years had been trying to get him interested in some kind of film treatment around his obsessive relationship to football.After the odyssey of last season — with Brady’s Deflategate suspension, his mother’s battle with cancer and the Patriots’ surreal comeback win in the Super Bowl — Brady finally agreed to participate in a film about his off-season training regimen.“We thought it would be fun to record what an off-season of training looks like for a 40-year-old athlete,” said Brady, reached by email Monday night.The off-season ended, but Chopra and his camera stuck around into the season. “Tom is not a sentimental guy, necessarily,” Chopra said. “But I do think, as we talked, he was sort of discovering parts of himself. It’s like therapy. It’s the process of saying it and giving voice to it.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Putting aside any significance the series might hold in the broader Patriots Kremlinology, “Tom vs. Time” is pure candy for football geeks, celebrity lifestyle voyeurs and pretty much any N.F.L. enthusiast curious about one of sports’ more enigmatic superstars. In the fifth installment (“The Spiritual Game”), Brady ruminates on the karmic satisfactions he derives through sports.“I do want to know the whys in life,” Brady said. “I do want to know why we’re here, where we’re going; trying to find that deeper purpose. To live it, through sports in a very authentic way, makes so much sense to me.”Later in the fifth episode, Brady and Bündchen sit for a joint interview in which Bündchen, a Brazilian model, describes what it’s like to have to share her husband with his “first love,” football. “It really is his main love,” Bündchen says, going further. “Frankly it’s true.” She mentions that when she and Brady first met, he said he only wanted to play 10 years and would have been happy to win one more Super Bowl. But of course, love dies hard.“It’s effortless because it’s so synonymous with my being,” Brady says of football. “In front of 70,000 people, I can be who I am. If I want to scream at somebody I can scream at somebody. I can be who I am in a very authentic way.”As Brady says this, it’s impossible not to extend the thought a beat further — and then he does so himself: “That is hard for me when I walk off the field.”AdvertisementOne of the more fascinating scenes involves Brady’s staring like a zombie at a computer screen, intense and serene. It is as if he is linked to the game film he is watching.“I could literally watch football all day,” Brady says. “I could go four or five hours without getting up from this chair.” He begins watching plays from what might be the most difficult loss of his career, the Giants’ victory over the Patriots in the Super Bowl in 2008, New England’s only loss that season.“You’re becoming a failure in front of everybody else,” Brady says, using an odd second-person construction while reliving the dormant nightmare in real time. “It’s a talent show you did when you were a kid. And you’re a failure.”Given some of the events of this season — both around the league and with the Patriots — the first four and a half installments that were available for viewing by The New York Times contained some big elephants that go unmentioned to this point.There is no discussion, for instance, of the player protests around the national anthem that dominated much of the early season. (President Trump, who ignited much of the discord around the protests, took every opportunity during the 2016 campaign to mention his close friendship with Brady.) Nor is there any mention of the midseason trade that sent Brady’s backup and possible heir apparent Jimmy Garoppolo to the 49ers; or, for that matter, of Brady’s polarizing “body coach,” business partner and best friend, Alex Guerrero, who was reportedly told by Belichick that he was no longer permitted to work at the stadium.(There is no discussion of this friction surrounding Guerrero, though he appears several times in the film, mostly as we watch him put Brady through the so-called “pliability” treatments that the two men developed as the cornerstone of their sports training and lifestyle business, “TB12”.)Chopra said he most likely would cover some of that material in the final installments, though much of it depends on the Patriots’ playoff trajectory. “There’s still some ground to cover and a lot of the story left to unfold,” he said.Facebook said the release date for the series is uncertain; it depends on when the Patriots’ season ends. The team hosts Tennessee in a playoff game this weekend.Another N.F.L. quarterback no longer alive in the playoffs steals one scene. Brady is at home being put through some massage by Guerrero when his oldest son, Jack, walks into the room. Jack tells his father about some N.F.L. fantasy or simulation game that he and a friend are engaged in.Advertisement“Who’s your quarterback,” Brady asks. His son is decisive and cold with his answer. “Cam Newton,” he says.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page B9 of the New York edition with the headline: Brady Behind the Scenes And Away From His Team.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRISTINE HAUSER and EMILY BAUMGAERTNERJAN. 8, 2018
Welcome to the season of unauthorized public ice.With extreme cold blanketing parts of the East Coast this winter, the slick allure of ice has been too tempting to pass up for some. There have been plenty of opportunities for sliding, slipping and skating — even in places where it is risky and not allowed — from Boston to New York to the nation’s capital.In the past week, parks authorities in Washington reminded visitors that where there is ice, there is usually water, after a number of people trying to skate or walk across the surface of the Reflecting Pool on the National Mall broke through the ice.No one was injured. But with temperatures dipping to the single digits on some days and winds bestowing a chill that makes the air feel below zero even if you’re not wet, anyone who gets dipped into the water, even if just knee-deep, risks hypothermia, the National Mall and Memorial Parks said in a Facebook post over the weekend.“Ice skating can lead to a cold and dangerous swim,” the post added.The Reflecting Pool, more than a third of a mile long and over two feet deep in some parts, is a centerpiece of the capital’s National Mall, hosting millions of visitors a year. In the summer, parks authorities have warned people not to swim or wade in it. In the winter, the pool turns into an impromptu winter playground.AdvertisementOver the years, visitors have posted footage of themselves on YouTube sliding and skating across its surface, uninterrupted by the parks authorities.AdvertisementOn Monday, with the temperature in the mid-20s, the pool was marked with yardslong cracks all over the ice — but that didn’t keep bold visitors from walking on its surface.Dozens of tourists slid cautiously along the edges, others wrestled playfully and some ventured toward the center of the pool to pose for photographs.“It’s extremely dangerous,” said Franco Benedetto, a tourist from Tucumán, Argentina, who was visiting Washington with his girlfriend, Romina Apestey. “We just saw four, five people messing around out there. Really risky.”Mary Fredlake of the Cleveland Park neighborhood of Washington, who was out for a morning run around the monuments on Monday, said her friends had seen people playing pickup hockey on the Reflecting Pool’s surface on Sunday.Officials from the United States Park Police, National Park Service rangers, and volunteers patrolled the premises. Alao Hogan, a volunteer with the park service’s Volunteers-in-Parks program, shooed tourists off the pool.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He joked that it was “a bit like herding cats,” but added that people did move off the ice when asked.Posters — traditionally used to urge visitors not to wade in warm water — advised visitors against testing their luck on the ice. But the warnings were written in English, and many tourists traveling to the capital in the winter months come from foreign countries.Advertisement“Sir! Sir!” Mr. Hogan shouted, in a chorus with officials, at one sneaker-skater — then, a few beats later, tried, “Señor!”Sgt. James Dingeldein, a spokesman for the parks police, said Monday that crowds had increased since last week, when officers were also at the pool warning visitors that the ice was not thick enough for safe skating or sliding.“The draw,” he said, “is to be able to say you skated with the memorials in the background.”Sergeant Dingeldein said the parks police often had to enforce other bans on activity, such as sliding or skating down the stairs of the Lincoln Memorial, which is across the pool from the Washington Monument. “That is not in keeping with the intended purpose of the memorial — solemn reflection,” he said.The Reflecting Pool has attracted skaters to its winter ice since soon after it was built in the 1920s, according to archival photographs at the Library of Congress. In the 1960s, the feasibility of freezing the pool specifically for skaters was studied, but high costs for the artificial freezing process have proved prohibitive.Along the Potomac River, ice skaters and hockey players took advantage of the frozen Chesapeake & Ohio Canal near the Chain Bridge, prompting the National Park Service on Jan. 5 to issue warnings that ice conditions were not monitored.
            C&O Canal becomes frozen playground for residents, hockey players (Video) https://t.co/C3g54mrxX2 pic.twitter.com/kne3jDU561 Of course, the lure of high-profile skating spots is not limited to Washington.In Central Park in New York, there are two authorized skating rinks: Wollman Rink and Lasker Rink. But skating is not permitted on any lake or pond in New York’s parks, First Deputy Commissioner Liam Kavanagh of the Parks Department said in a statement on Monday.In Boston, driving past Boston Common on Friday, Ryan Woods, a spokesman for the city’s Parks Department, noticed about a half-dozen people skating on the Public Garden lagoon, which is a site for swan boats in the summer but was not outfitted with an artificial freezing system and stopped being an authorized skating rink in the ’90s.Now, when the weather gets cold, it is drained of all but about 18 inches of water. Mr. Woods said he suspected some skaters could be trying to relive their childhood memories.“The lagoon used to be a place where you could skate,” Mr. Woods said. “But we do not have a rule against it. It is at your own risk.”An earlier version of this article described incorrectly the location near the Chain Bridge on the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal where people were skating. It is along the Potomac, northwest from the National Mall. It is not across the Potomac.A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 2018, on Page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: The Icy Allure of the Reflecting Pool.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARCELO ROCHABRÚNJAN. 7, 2018
LIMA, Peru — In his first comments since being released from the hospital on a medical pardon that drew wide condemnation, former President Alberto Fujimori of Peru called on the country to set aside its “grudges” in order to unite.Mr. Fujimori, 79, made the comments on Twitter on Saturday amid an unabating furor over President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski’s decision to free him. The former strongman had served 12 years of a 25-year prison sentence for graft and human rights crimes.On Twitter, he reflected on the new chapter in his life and urged Peruvians to come together to fight violence and crime.“In the first hours of this new stage of my life, several dreams invade me constantly, and I would like to share them,” Mr. Fujimori said in a tweet. “I wish for a Peru without grudges, with all of us working toward a superior objective.”AdvertisementThen, in an apparent appeal to his right-wing political base, he added: “We’ll be a country in which security is regained and violence is eliminated. We can fulfill these goals by setting aside special interests and opportunism. UNITED WE CAN ACHIEVE THEM!”AdvertisementIt was unclear if Mr. Fujimori’s remarks were a hint that he planned to play a more active role in Peruvian politics. But the message rippled across Peru, where Mr. Fujimori is a deeply divisive figure.Though respected by some, he has been vilified for leading an administration that led a violent crackdown in the 1990s on the Maoist Shining Path insurgency, which had all but brought normal life in Peru to a standstill with bombings and killings.In 2009, Mr. Fujimori was sentenced for his role in two massacres that killed dozens of Peruvians in its effort to quash the Shining Path.Peru, a country with an authoritarian past, returned to democracy only 17 years ago. And critics denounced Mr. Kuczynski’s pardon as a blow to the fight against impunity and efforts to heal national wounds after Mr. Fujimori’s presidency.The Nobel laureate Mario Vargas Llosa and 238 other writers signed an open letter saying the decision covered the nation “in infamy and shame.” The letter said the pardon was not an act of compassion, as the government insisted, but “the most crude and cynical political calculus.”But Prime Minister Mercedes Aráoz wrote an op-ed article published in the Lima daily El Comercio on Sunday defending Mr. Kuczynski’s decision to pardon Mr. Fujimori.“Dear countrymen,” she wrote, “this pardon does not in any way mean impunity or oblivion; this is about starting to heal our wounds as a country.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kuczynski, 79, a former Wall Street banker who took office in July 2016, has been hanging on to power, having narrowly survived a motion in Congress last month to impeach him.AdvertisementHe had been accused of lying during an inquiry about possible ties to the Brazilian construction giant Odebrecht, which was engulfed in a graft scandal. It was later revealed that a financial services company Mr. Kuczynski owned had received $782,000 from Odebrecht, a disclosure that set off the impeachment effort.Many had expected the vote to result in his removal, with the chamber dominated by the opposition Popular Force, a right-wing party founded by Mr. Fujimori’s daughter, Keiko, who supported the effort to impeach Mr. Kuczynski.But at the last minute, a faction of the Popular Force led by Mr. Fujimori’s younger son, Kenji, challenged his sister and swung the vote in Mr. Kuczynski’s favor.Some lawmakers said that Mr. Fujimori had asked them to follow his son’s lead, and the pardon was widely seen as a quid pro quo with Mr. Kuczynski, charges the administration has denied.In signs of a split in Popular Force, Kenji Fujimori has accused his sister of “conspiring” to keep his father imprisoned. He has asked that his father be named an aide to the family-run party.“On the one hand, there’s Keiko and her bloc that directly opposes the government,” said Gilbert Violeta, a congressman who is president of Mr. Kuczynski’s party, Peruvians for Change. “On the other hand, there’s Kenji and the bloc that supports Alberto Fujimori.”“We will only know the real effects of that confrontation in the following days, when Congress is back in session,” Mr. Violeta added.Lawyers say there is no legal obstacle preventing Mr. Fujimori from seeking public office now that he has regained his freedom.Before he was wheeled from the hospital, he asked for Peruvians’ forgiveness “with all my heart” in a Facebook video.AdvertisementSince then, he has spent his days inside a rented house in a quiet suburb of the Peruvian capital, Lima, where his doctors say he is recovering from a heart condition.Yonette Joseph contributed reporting from London.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
JAN. 8, 2018
Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Download the NYT Cooking app here.Good morning. Melissa Clark has a fine new recipe for you to try this evening, if you can find yourself some firm white-fleshed fish at the market. It’s for cod braised in butter and wine, and it marries sweetness and silk to remarkable effect. Add mashed potatoes if you like, or a spinach salad, and see if you aren’t warming to this business of cooking during the week, like, all the time.Alternatively, try out this other new gem we’ve slid into our display case at NYT Cooking, for the kale-sauce pasta served by the chef Joshua McFadden, of Ava Gene’s in Portland, Ore. Tejal Rao tracked it down, part of her recent dive into the history of America’s obsession with kale, in The New York Times Magazine.Me, I’d like to make this old Mark Bittman “Minimalist” recipe for deviled chicken thighs this evening, though I’ll deminimalize it so it’s a little more substantial a feed. First, by melting some leeks in a pan with some butter and white wine, then putting them, soft and pliant, onto a sheet pan. Second, by browning the skin of the chicken thighs in a sauté pan on top of the stove instead of using the broiler. Third, by adding some bread crumbs to the mustardy spice mixture on the skin of the birds. And fourth and finally, by finishing the chicken in a very hot oven on top of the leeks, which makes the dish into a high school cover-band version of one the chef Suzanne Goin sometimes serves at her Lucques in Los Angeles. So great.AdvertisementPerhaps you’d prefer chickpea and fennel ratatouille, though? Or some vegan mac and cheez? A cup of turmeric tea? We are here for you, whether you need to learn how to frost a cake or you’re just figuring out how to use a multicooker you got over the holidays.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Speaking of which, it’s a cool machine, I think. I used mine the other day to make a weeknight version of my recipe for Jamaican oxtail stew. Browned the meat and half the vegetables on the stovetop before adding them to the pot, then added everything else save for the butter beans and cooked the mixture on high pressure for 45 minutes with a manual release. Fished out the oxtails along with some fat, then cooked the sauce down with the butter beans and served over coconut rice. Say 30 minutes active work? It was unbelievably good.AdvertisementGo visit NYT Cooking to find other great recipes to make or make your own this week. Yes, you need a subscription to access them. I think you’ll find it a good deal. There’s a recipe box in which you can save the recipes you like (wherever they come from!) and in which you can organize them however you see fit. You can share the recipes, rate them and leave notes on them to remind yourself or alert others to ingredient substitutions you’ve made, or ways you’ve cooked the dish differently, or better. It’s a nice community, you’ll see.And we are here to help you if anything goes wrong along the way, either with the recipes or with the technology that supports them. Just write cookingcare@nytimes.com. Emergency culinary technicians are standing by.Now, a long way from rondeau pans and thin steel woks, wherever you live and whatever you think of big-city life, you should read Jonathan Mahler in The Times Magazine on the case for saving the New York City subway. It’s a brilliant piece of journalism and writing.Need a new book? I’m really enjoying Nathaniel Rich’s “King Zeno,” a historical crime novel set in New Orleans a century ago. It will no doubt be a Netflix series before long, but read it right now and maybe join me in my reverie: walking Tchoupitoulas Street in the gloaming, bound for Cochon, an oyster and bacon sandwich, an ice-cold Miller High Life, the rest of the book.And, finally, Handel’s “Ariodante” had its premiere on this day in 1735, at Covent Garden in London. The opera wasn’t performed in the United States until 1971, when the Handel Society put on a concert version with the mezzo-soprano Sophia Steffan playing Ariodante, the prince betrothed to Ginevra, daughter of the king of Scotland. Donal Henahan, writing in The Times, didn’t like it much — you can’t match a castrato was his argument, in essence. But here she is, and you see what you think. I’ll be back on Wednesday.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BONNIE WERTHEIMJAN. 6, 2018
As the sexual misconduct scandals continue to unfold, our gender team is providing updates and analysis in a new newsletter. Today, Bonnie Wertheim introduces us to “The New Red Carpet” — and explains how The Times is covering the Golden Globes red carpet differently this year. Read back issues of The #MeToo Moment here,  sign up for the newsletter here, and tell us what you think at nytgender@nytimes.com.The first time I tried on a floor-length gown, I was 12 years old and on the cusp of “becoming a woman” — or, at least, parading as one for my bat mitzvah. The dress was an iridescent lavender, with rhinestone-encrusted straps and a tulle-stuffed princess skirt. I would wear it in a room packed with peers, family friends and relatives the following year, an experience so terrifying that a stress-induced flu would swiftly follow. But alone in the dressing room, I already felt seen. That some people wore outfits so spectacular on a regular basis — that they made themselves so visible — was unimaginable to me.I didn’t know the half of it then. Those celebrities, whose beauty and elegance and occasional sartorial slip-ups I’d watched on E! for years, contained secrets their camera-ready appearances never let on. They were beholden to agreements unspoken and explicit, ones upon which their careers hinged and which are now, finally, coming to light.At The Times, where I work on the Styles desk, red carpet slide shows are a mainstay of awards season. We watch, pick our personal bests and worsts, and publish images that millions of people then judge for themselves. The photographs, at best, reflect a desire for shiny distractions. But there is a complicity to scrutinizing and ranking these women, too.AdvertisementTheir dresses are not a reflection of their own style or their professional achievements. They speak to the larger economy of Hollywood, whose corruption becomes clearer with each turn of the news cycle. Moreover, our habitual participation in the red carpet industrial complex underscores the widely held perception that women’s bodies are available for public consumption.AdvertisementSo we’re switching things up this year.We’re sending a Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist, Damon Winter, to document the Golden Globes red carpet as a news event (you can see some of his coverage of Donald Trump here). We will have a slate of reporters watching and listening for smart, critical quotes from celebrities, not about what they’re wearing, but about the future they envision for their industry — and the world.Coming soon: A newsletter on women, gender and society.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.We’ve also published a series of curtain-raiser stories, which contain red carpet observations, as well as critiques and predictions, from journalists at The Times and The New York Times Magazine. Read on.What the Smiles ConcealedRed carpet photos from awards shows past can now be seen as “a metaphor for the difficulty of confronting or rejecting powerful men who harass or assault,” writes Jodi Kantor, the investigative reporter who, with Megan Twohey, blew open the national dialogue on harassment in Hollywood.The Red Carpet Is Its Own EconomyOur fashion critic Vanessa Friedman explores the relationship between fashion brands, celebrities and their handlers. (Hint: There’s a lot of money involved.)The Empty Gesture of Red Carpet ProtestJenna Wortham, a staff writer at The New York Times Magazine, questions the value of wearing black as visual protest, especially at awards shows, where the participants have little to risk and publicity to gain. (“It feels completely privileged, and a little complicit, to still participate in the larger system that has condoned sexual violence in their industry,” she writes. “Besides, don’t they already wear lots of black on the red carpet anyway?!”)Will Awards Season Ever Be the Same?Ms. Kantor wonders if the awards circuit can weather the post-Harvey Weinstein storm, or if it will fall with him.After #AskHerMore and #MeToo, Time’s UpCara Buckley, a Culture reporter and Carpetbagger columnist, explains how women are leading the charge against the industry’s culture of abuse.The Outfit as ExpressionBy choosing to wear black on Sunday, the women (and men!) of Hollywood are using fashion to its fullest potential: “Clothes speak as loudly as many words, and they can be weaponized accordingly,” writes Ms. Friedman, our critic.AdvertisementFollow along with The Times’s red carpet coverage Sunday night on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTStyles, @NYTFashion) and at nytimes.com/style. Let us know what you think at nytgender@nytimes.com.Bonnie Wertheim is a web producer in Styles. The rhinestone-encrusted dress is somewhere in her parents’ attic.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By RICHARD C. PADDOCKJAN. 7, 2018
BANGKOK — A resistance group in Myanmar claimed responsibility on Sunday for an ambush of government forces in Rakhine State that left three people wounded, saying it had no choice but to defend the Rohingya from “state-sponsored terrorism.”In a statement posted on Twitter, Atta Ullah, who identifies himself as commander of the rebel group, the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army, said the attack on Friday morning in Maungdaw had been staged in response to efforts by Myanmar’s security forces to drive the Rohingya, a Muslim minority in a Buddhist-majority country, from the area.Mr. Atta Ullah accused government forces of continuing to kill civilians, rape women and destroy villages in a campaign of genocide.More than 650,000 Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh since the Myanmar military began its campaign in late August, joining roughly 87,000 who had fled earlier. Survivors have given consistent, harrowing accounts of gang rapes, torture, random killings and the destruction of villages.AdvertisementThe campaign against the Rohingya has been called “ethnic cleansing” by the United States and the United Nations.Advertisement“Thousands of Rohingya are still fleeing to escape from endless inhumane persecutions of the Burmese terrorist army,” Mr. Atta Ullah said.Two security officers and a driver were injured in the ambush on Friday, according to a post on the Facebook page of Senior Gnl. Min Aung Hlaing, Myanmar’s military chief. Ten members of the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army, or ARSA, took part in the attack, the post said.The rebel group, which is known locally as Harakah al-Yaqin, or the Faith Movement, is a small, underequipped group that has struggled to mount significant military operations. But it has claimed responsibility for a few deadly attacks on Myanmar’s security forces, including in August.Richard Horsey, an independent analyst in Yangon, the economic capital Myanmar, said that while the group is small and poorly armed, its actions provoke major responses from the government.“It’s uncertain whether they have the capacity to sustain an insurgency, but even occasional small attacks like this will have a big political impact in Myanmar,” he said.Small operations by the group against security forces in August prompted brutal retaliation from government forces, which in turn contributed to the mass exodus of Rohingya from Rakhine.
                Roughly two-thirds of the Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar fled this year as soldiers shot them, raped them and torched their homes.            The international aid group Doctors Without Borders estimated last month that at least 6,700 Rohingya, including 730 young children, had met with violent deaths in the month after the military campaign began in August.AdvertisementGeneral Min Aung Hlaing, the country’s most powerful figure, has denied that the army committed atrocities against the Rohingya. In November, the military released the results of an internal inquiry that cleared all soldiers in Rakhine of any misconduct. Not a single innocent civilian had been raped or killed by the security forces, the report said.The government has refused to grant access to the region to independent observers including United Nations officials, aid groups, representatives of foreign governments and journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The government of Myanmar, also known as Burma, has denied most Rohingya citizenship and considers them to be “illegal immigrants” from Bangladesh, factors that complicate their status and their ability to be recognized as refugees or to apply for asylum.U Zaw Htay, a former army major who serves as a spokesman for Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar’s top civilian leader, said the ambush on Friday had been intended to derail the repatriation of Rohingya under an agreement between Myanmar and Bangladesh.“We will start the repatriation process on Jan. 23,” he said. “That’s why ARSA carried out a terrorist attack on Jan. 5, just to delay the repatriation process.”U Win Myat Aye, the minister of social welfare and resettlement, said that refugees would have the choice of living at a temporary center while their homes are being rebuilt, or of returning to their villages to help rebuild the housing themselves, with the government bearing the construction costs.The relocation center is expected to accommodate up to 30,000 people in tents from Belgium and China, he said.“After the construction of their original place is done, they can live in their own place and they can work freely as before,” he said.Despite such assurances, it is unclear how many Rohingya will want to return home given the violent campaign of the past few months.AdvertisementIn his statement, Mr. Atta Ullah said ARSA had “no other option but to combat ‘Burmese state-sponsored terrorism’ against the Rohingya population for the purpose of defending, salvaging and protecting the Rohingya community.”Mr. Horsey, who has closely followed the group, said the rare statement from the rebel leader was a bid to position the organization as a political representative of the Rohingya.“We declare, loud and clear, that we will continue our legitimate struggles in hand-in-hand cooperation with the civilized international community until all our demands are fulfilled,” Mr. Atta Ullah said. “Rohingya people must be consulted in all decision-making that affects their humanitarian needs and political future.”Saw Nang contributed reporting from Mandalay, Myanmar.A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Rohingya Militants in Myanmar Claim Credit for Attack.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
JAN. 7, 2018
Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Download the NYT Cooking app here.Good morning. The feast of the Epiphany was yesterday, Twelfth Night for some, and if you didn’t make Dorie Greenspan’s recipe for galette des rois to celebrate, you really ought to today. It’s delicious, and will bring good luck all year if your slice holds the little trinket traditionally baked into the cake. (Dorie calls for a bean. My mother used a ring. In New Orleans, where a different kind of king cake is served during Mardi Gras, they use a little plastic baby. I like these porcelain dudes.)So make the cake! And have it for dessert this evening after eating something hearty against the cold that grips a big part of the country right now. Perhaps Regina Schrambling’s justly famous recipe for beef stew with Dijon and Cognac? Or this insanely good recipe for Caribbean stew I read about in an old Jim Harrison story and tested into reality? You’ll absolutely love Melissa Clark’s recipe for Japanese chicken and root vegetable stew.On Monday, I think you should keep up the theme, with a pot of spiced brown lentils with yogurt that is rather thicker than stew.AdvertisementTuesday night might be good for a plate of halibut with brown butter, lemon and sage, and you should cook it even if you don’t have halibut. Flounder would be a good substitute, as would sea scallops; down in Florida, I’d use grouper instead.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Pasta with parsnips and bacon would make an excellent Wednesday night meal. I made a good version for years, just out of my head, a take on a dish I once ate in a restaurant. Then I tried Melissa’s recipe, and it was like discovering an extra room in an apartment you already love. Cook that for sure.AdvertisementThursday: Fight the Bolsheviks with a couple of white Russians. Then order a pizza and do as The Times’s James Poniewozik suggested right at the end of 2017: Watch “American Vandal” on Netflix. (What, no recipe tonight? Hey, you made the cocktails, didn’t you?)Then on Friday night, please round out the week with pork gyros or chicken shawarma. It’s early yet, but 2018 is looking very good thus far.Go visit NYT Cooking for thousands and thousands more recipes to cook this week. You will, yes, need a subscription to access them. We have discussed this matter in the past. The new publisher of The Times, A.G. Sulzberger, added to the case in his first note to readers, published early this week. We believe that we are doing work that is worth the price of admission, work that will make your life better and your understanding of the world deeper. And we all hope you agree.You’re not alone, after all. We are here to help if anything goes wrong with a recipe or with the site and apps. Just write cookingcare@nytimes.com and we’ll get back to you. (And if I get something wrong? Write foodeditor@nytimes.com, so I can apologize for my transgression, as I do today for a line on Monday in which I attributed James Bond’s lamentation about the combination of Champagne and Benzedrine to the novel “Casino Royale.” It was “Moonraker,” of course.)Now, before we head off to cook pupusas and curtido, how about a pop quiz, nothing to do with food? Tell me your top 5 novels and why you chose them: foodeditor@nytimes.com. The mail’s been coming in heavily of late so I don’t want to promise that I’ll get back to each person who writes. But I will read everything sent. I’m looking for themes!Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ISABEL KERSHNERJAN. 4, 2018
JERUSALEM — Israel is offering a stark choice to tens of thousands of African migrants in the country: Agree to leave voluntarily by the end of March, with a plane ticket and a grant of $3,500, or face possible incarceration.“Every country must guard its borders,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Wednesday, announcing the plan. “The infiltrators have a clear choice — cooperate with us and leave voluntarily, respectably, humanely and legally, or we will have to use other tools at our disposal, which are also according to the law.”Later, on Facebook, Mr. Netanyahu wrote, “The government approved a plan today that will give every infiltrator two options: a flight ticket out or jail.”It is the latest phase of Israel’s long campaign to expel tens of thousands of African migrants and asylum seekers, mostly Eritrean and Sudanese, who entered the country illegally. At least 20,000 have already left Israel. “The mission now,” Mr. Netanyahu said, “is to deport the rest.”AdvertisementMr. Netanyahu said a few months ago that Israel had reached understandings with African countries willing to absorb the migrants, but without identifying the countries. Based on testimonies of people who have already left, Israeli rights groups say the main destination appears to be Rwanda.AdvertisementAccording to a news report in Rwanda, the country’s foreign affairs minister said in November that it was in negotiations with Israel to take in African migrants who did not want to return to their countries of origin, and that up to 10,000 asylum seekers could eventually be settled in Rwanda.The United Nations refugee agency has expressed concern over such proposals. The agency, and Israeli rights groups, say they are concerned that people who have gone to Rwanda have not found adequate safety or a durable solution to their plight, and have continued on dangerous journeys within Africa or to Europe.“They are not being granted any status or work permits there, nor a safe haven,” said Dror Sadot, a spokeswoman for Hotline for Refugees and Migrants, an Israeli nonprofit group that collected dozens of testimonies from those who left previously for Rwanda and for other countries including Uganda, some of whom later made it to Europe.“They keep going on their journey — many find themselves in Libya,” Ms. Sadot said, adding that many were then exposed to threats such as torture and human trafficking.The new plan — promoted by Interior Minister Aryeh Deri, of the ultra-Orthodox Shas party, and Gilad Erdan, the public security minister, who is from Mr. Netanyahu’s conservative Likud Party — is the latest phase of a long-running political and legal struggle over the African migrants’ fate.Critics have denounced the campaign as an effort to distract from corruption investigations against Mr. Netanyahu, and have asserted that the timing is political, given the whiff of possible early elections in the air. In the past, threats to jail the migrants en masse have not been realized, not least because of the cost and a space shortage in prisons.About 60,000 migrants have surreptitiously crossed into Israel over the once-porous border with Egypt since 2005, most of them Sudanese or Eritreans who cannot be sent back home because of international conventions that prevent the repatriation of asylum seekers to home countries where they could face persecution.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Israeli officials insist that most of the Africans were not fleeing persecution, but came as economic migrants looking for work.AdvertisementAfter protests by the residents of south Tel Aviv, where the new arrivals were concentrated, Israel announced in 2012 that it was stepping up efforts to deter, detain and deport the migrants. Measures including the construction of a steel barrier along Israel’s border with Egypt have since cut the flow of African migrants to almost zero. None arrived in 2017, according to the immigration authority.A detention center, known as Holot, which was built in the desert to house up to 3,000 migrants who entered illegally, is to close down soon, after the Israeli Supreme Court placed limits on the time migrants could be held there and the authorities found it to be no longer effective in encouraging them to leave Israel.The process of seeking asylum in Israel is a slow one. Of nearly 14,000 asylum applications submitted by Eritrean and Sudanese migrants to the Israeli authorities over the last five years, only 10 people have been granted refugee status — eight from Eritrea and two from Sudan, according to Ms. Sadot and the United Nations refugee agency.The agency said another 200 Sudanese from Darfur had recently been granted humanitarian status in Israel. Thousands of asylum requests are pending. The Immigration Authority did not respond to a request for information.Anwar Suleiman Arbab, 38, left the war-torn Darfur region of Sudan in 2003 and went to Libya. After five years there, he tried to make it to Europe but failed. “A friend told me Israel is a good place,” he said in an interview.So in 2008 Mr. Arbab paid Bedouins to help him cross the border into Israel from Egypt. He was detained for five months and released, and then later detained again for 18 months in Holot. For the last two years he has been living in Herzliya, north of Tel Aviv, on a temporary visa, working in a small restaurant and studying English.Given a choice in 2014 of leaving for Africa or being detained in Holot, he chose Holot. He had applied for asylum a year earlier, he said, and has still not received an answer.He said that there was fear and concern among African migrants in Israel as new measures continued to be introduced, but that his answer had not changed.“Today,” he said, “if it’s between going back to Africa or to jail in Israel, I’ll go to jail.”Follow Isabel Kershner on Twitter: @IKershner.A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Israel Offers Cash, or Jail, To African Asylum Seekers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PALKO KARASZJAN. 5, 2018
LONDON — It’s orange, fizzy and tastes like liquid bubble gum.And while whisky is Scotland’s national drink to the world, to many locals, Irn Bru is a close second.The company that makes Irn Bru says it will reduce the amount of sugar in its iconic drink this month, a change that has caused an uproar among its large fan base. The change in recipe, widely attributed to a new soda tax that comes into force in Britain this year, has also led to reports of panic buying in Scottish supermarkets.“It’s one of our symbols of being unique and different in the way we feel about ourselves,” said Stephen M. Blythe, a technology lawyer in Glasgow.After he saw an announcement on the company’s website about the change in his favorite drink, he set up a Facebook page to try to stop the recipe alteration. He has since joined forces with another man who began a Change.org petition for the cause.AdvertisementSome have compared the recipe change to the “new Coke” blunder of 1985. At the time, Coca-Cola replaced its century-old formula with a sweeter drink, only to put “Classic Coke” back on the shelves less than three months later, after facing angry customer complaints.AdvertisementThe makers of Irn Bru, in a series of candid communications with consumers on social media, responded promptly to the growing concerns.“We’ve done a shed-load of tests on this,” read one message from Irn Bru’s official Twitter account. “We hope you’ll agree it still tastes amazing.”
            A message to our fans. And some much-needed facts about BRU. pic.twitter.com/53VqTUSalt But unlike the irritated Coke customers of three decades ago, Irn Bru’s fans have social media at their disposal, and opponents of the change have been vocal.
            This pleases me not #IfItAintBroke #IrnBru https://t.co/p7SSbbULdz The orange-colored fizz first had its debut in 1901 under the name Iron Brew from a secret recipe,  known only to three people. The company’s former chairman still mixes the formula. The family-run company that manufactures the drink, A.G. Barr, renamed its beverage Irn Bru after World War II, when new British rules required names to reflect what products actually contained.The drink does contain ammonium ferric citrate, which is technically iron, but it is not brewed. The new name, however, didn’t keep the company from using a new slogan, later made famous by decades of advertising: “Irn Bru, made in Scotland from Girders,” pronounced with rolled Rs, of course.A spokesman for A.G. Barr said there have been recipe variations over the years, including during World War II, when sugar was in short supply, but they haven’t interfered with the original secret formula.The Irn Bru brand is closely associated with Scotland, and the company’s marketing has played on that persona for decades. Scotland — a largely self-governing entity within Britain with a strong independence movement — has a distinct national identity. Irn Bru is seen as quintessentially Scottish and associated with strength, but also with awkwardness and a wry sense of humor.
            Rest assured, it'll still go down a treat with a morning roll        “The sense of humor, everything that is baked into the Irn Bru personality, matches the Scottish persona,” said Mr. Blythe, the man behind the movement to keep the current recipe.AdvertisementWhile Scots are not the only ones who drink Irn Bru in Britain, sales of the drink soared in the British Parliament after the largest contingent yet of the Scottish National Party members won seats, The Guardian reported. It gave parliamentarians “sustenance,” one Scottish member said.
            About double        Coke sold in Britain currently contains slightly more sugar than Irn Bru, with 35 grams of the white stuff in an average can, compared with Irn Bru’s 34 grams. The new recipe will contain around 15.5 grams in a can (which is still about 4 teaspoons).Some worry that cutting out the sugar will lessen Irn Bru’s purported hangover curative powers.
            Na diet for the mixer does the job fine, only fat irn-bru for the hangover. Boak at sugar-free stuff the next day        Other popular drinks, like Dr Pepper, Fanta and Sprite, have lost up to 30 percent of their sugar content, to no apparent consumer uproar and without affecting sales.Even as some are lamenting the change in their favorite beverage, others see the reduction of sugar in Irn Bru as just a small step in the right direction.
            If irn bru is saying that the new formula means a can will still have four teaspoons of sugar then it’s about time. I’m sorry but we can’t look after ppl if we don’t face facts. Even four is mad         Follow Palko Karasz on Twitter: @karaszpalko.A version of this article appears in print on January 6, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Scottish Soda Is Shedding Some Sugar, Irking Fans.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARCELO ROCHABRÚNJAN. 3, 2018
LIMA, Peru — Peru’s government on Wednesday banned buses from a notorious stretch of road where an intercity bus plunged off a cliff and onto a beach on Tuesday, killing 51 passengers in the deadliest traffic accident in Peru since 2013.Even as emergency workers continued on Wednesday to retrieve bodies from the bus in Pasamayo, anger mounted over the government’s failure to find an alternative to a road so dangerous that for decades it has been called the Devil’s Curve.The road — a section of seaside highway 40 miles north of Lima, the capital — is often so foggy that drivers cannot see the vehicles in front of them. For 14 miles, it curves  52 times atop a cliff overlooking the Pacific Ocean. In many parts, there is no safety rail.The accident on Tuesday morning was not the first time the stretch of road has been the scene of fatalities, and two more people died there, in a separate accident, just hours later. Since 1990, at least 20 traffic accidents have occurred there, many of them involving the loss of life.AdvertisementAn alternative to the infamous road exists, built away from the cliffs. But its use has been restricted to small, private vehicles.AdvertisementPassenger buses and cargo trucks have had no option but to use the Coil of Pasamayo, which is the formal name of the 10-mile stretch of road.President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski announced on Wednesday that he had instructed his minister of transportation and communications, Bruno Giuffra, to stop buses from using the hazardous road and to increase the capacity of the alternative route to accommodate buses.“It’s very painful to us as a country to suffer an accident of this magnitude,” the president wrote on Twitter.Inequality and poverty in Peru are high, meaning that those who rely on buses are often low-income Peruvians, while better-off people can afford to drive smaller vehicles, or share rides in them.“We’ve been building roads for those who can afford cars, not for the people,” said Mariana Alegre, a transit advocate who leads the organization Lima Cómo Vamos.For all its danger, the Coil of Pasamayo is an almost unavoidable part of life in Peru. It is part of the country’s main highway, the Pan-American Highway, which stretches along the entire western edge of the country. This particular stretch dates to the 19th century, when it was built as a railway.Both the Devil’s Curve and the alternative route are managed by a private conglomerate, Norvial, which has a contract to maintain the roads until 2027 and to collect the tolls.AdvertisementNorvial did not respond to a request for comment about the condition of the roads.On Facebook, the company said it regretted the accident and  expressed condolences to families of victims.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Reports prepared by Norvial for the government show that the company has invested heavily in cleaning up sand that falls from the steep cliffs onto the road, but they do not mention efforts to make the road safer.A 2011 report from Peru’s Ministry of Transportation and Communications noted that both Pasamayo roads were among the most heavily traveled stretches of highway in the country. The Devil’s Curve ranked as the second-most transited road for buses; the alternative road was seventh among roads used by personal vehicles.Lorenzo Orrego, who runs Sutran, the agency that regulates vehicular transportation, said speed was a factor in the accident on Tuesday as was a tractor-trailer that drove into the lane occupied by the bus.Mr. Giuffra, the transportation minister, said that both vehicles were moving in excess of the speed limit of 60 kilometers per hour, or about 37 miles per hour.Mr. Orrego said any security precautions in the area would have been the responsibility of Norvial, not the government. But a unit within the ministry that oversees Norvial is said to be facing a restructuring in the wake of the accident, according to local news media reports.According to statistics maintained by Luz Ambar, a transportation safety organization, eight to 10 Peruvians die each day from traffic accidents.Kevin Villalobos Rojas, 27, who was returning home on the bus after spending New Year’s Day in the city of Huacho, was one of just a few survivors from the accident. Reached by phone, his brother Eric said that Mr. Villalobos was in intensive care at a hospital.“The company hasn’t called us, it hasn’t come to the hospital,” Eric Villalobos said. “And the government hasn’t done anything either.”A version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Buses Banned From Road Where 51 Died in Peru.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Karen Miranda-RivadeneiraThough her photographs have touches of the ethereal, Karen Miranda-Rivadeneira insists she does not go out looking for magical moments. Still, she encounters them often in New York, where she was born, and Ecuador, where she was raised, visually teasing out the traditions, routines and beliefs shared by those two places in her heart. In her most recent work, she has returned to a region of Ecuador that she first visited as a child 30 years ago. There, she met people who opened up to her, as she encountered scenes reminiscent of her upbringing, like when she came upon a woman who was passing an egg over her child to cure the evil eye. Her own mother had used the same ritual on her decades earlier. Even her Andean landscapes were transformed when she collaborated with a traditional painter who embellished them with flying people and golden animals.“There was something about the relationship between the ordinary and the extraordinary that I have always seen since childhood,” said Ms. Miranda-Rivadeneira, 34. “It’s not unique to me. A lot of people from Latin America and the Caribbean grew up with that. For me, it stuck around.”Those images will be on display at Miyako Yoshinaga in New York in her first solo show, “In the Mouth of the Mountain Jaguar Everybody Is a Dancing Hummingbird.”  The magical realism reflected in the show’s title refers to the region of El Bolivar province where she pursued her project in seven towns, which was done with the assistance of France’s Musée Quai Branly. She had started her project with a simple concept: to go to a place she was long familiar with and try to look at it through new eyes. At first she had planned to walk through a part of the Andes and photograph the people and places she encountered, but decided to stay more or less out in a part of El Bolivar province, an area that she had often passed through from Guayaquil, where she grew up, to the Amazon.Working with both a medium-format as well as a view camera, she introduced herself to the locals, getting to know them before asking them how they would like to be photographed. In some cases, the encounter was brief. In others, it could stretch over a day or two. The resulting images reveal the degree of trust her subjects had, like the photo of a woman soaking in a tub. Ms. Miranda-Rivadeneira had been wanting to do her portrait when she went to the woman’s home. “I not doing much except taking my Thursday bath,” the woman told her. “Take a portrait of me inside the tub.”Another subject, a young man who aspired to be a musician, suggested they visit some ruins that he thought would be the perfect setting. Once there, he made a surprising admission. He said he wanted his skin to be similar to the texture of the ruins,” she recalled. “Then he said: ‘So, I am going to take off my clothes. Is that O.K.?’  Perfect. He got into position and I took the photo. It developed little by little, interacting and sharing and being present.”In contrast to the documentary-style portraits and daily scenes, her collaboration with Julio Toaquiza, a farmer who was also a painter of traditional pastoral scenes, had mystical overtones. Looking at some color landscapes she had done, she felt they were missing something. Though when she approached Mr. Toaquiza with the idea of his painting on her prints, he was a bit puzzled at first.“Why would I paint on top of a photograph?” she recalled him asking. “He’s a farmer who goes from working with cattle to painting and portraying the stories of his community.”Looking back on her time working on this project, Ms. Miranda-Rivadeneira said it helped her draw the connections between herself and her subjects. And sometimes — like when she saw the mother performing a healing ritual with an egg — it was enough to just savor the moment.“I was so moved and I could have photographed her, but I had already done that with my mother,” she said. “That moment, I breathed it in. Wow, this magic still happens and is still very present in people’s lives.”Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryBy CATHERINE PORTERJAN. 4, 2018
TORONTO — You could call it Canada’s Weinstein moment, take two.One of the country’s most powerful theater directors, Albert Schultz, on Thursday resigned from his post as leader of the Soulpepper Theater Company after four actresses said this week that they had been sexually harassed, groped, touched and repeatedly propositioned by him over 13 years.They filed a lawsuit against him and the company, a nonprofit he co-founded, for a combined $6.2 million, or $7.85 million Canadian dollars.Mr. Schultz said he planned to “vigorously defend myself against the allegations that are being made.”Before he announced his resignation, the actresses spoke at a news conference in the Toronto offices of one of their lawyers. They said they had felt emboldened to come forward now, in part, because of what they said was a culture shift that began in Hollywood, with actresses openly talking about the behavior of the producer Harvey Weinstein.Advertisement“The MeToo campaign has shown us for the first time that people are listening and that people care,” said one of the actresses, Patricia Fagan, who left Soulpepper in 2013, after 13 years working there.AdvertisementThe accusations against Mr. Schultz have made headlines across Canada and thrown the small acting community into turmoil. For many woman, a discomforting déjà vu hangs over the discussion.In 2014, a number of women came forward to The Toronto Star, the country’s largest newspaper, accusing the former rock star and radio host Jian Ghomeshi of punching, biting, choking and suffocating them while on dates. One was a well-known Canadian actress, Lucy DeCoutere.Mr. Ghomeshi was swiftly fired by his employer, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, despite his position that the sexual practices had been consensual — “a mild form of ‘Fifty Shades of Grey,’” as he posted on his Facebook account.The case was front-page news for months, particularly after Mr. Ghomeshi was criminally charged by the Toronto police. And it set off a national soul-searching about the high rates of sexual assault in the country and the low numbers of criminal convictions.For example, according to “It’s Never Okay,” an Ontario government report from 2015, one in three women in Canada experiences sexual violence in her lifetime, but only 3.3 percent of assaults are reported to the police and only 0.3 percent end with a conviction.A Canadian version of #MeToo, called #BeenRapedNeverReported, flooded Twitter at the time, with millions of women telling stories of being assaulted and deciding not to report it to the police.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But the court case against Mr. Ghomeshi did not ultimately encourage more women to step forward. The testimony of one complainant after another was shredded by Mr. Ghomeshi’s defense lawyer, and he did not take the stand.In a scathing ruling in 2016, the judge acquitted Mr. Ghomeshi and called the complainants’ testimony not just inconsistent, but “tainted by outright deception.”AdvertisementThe experience made some activists in Canada look at the growing movement across the border with trepidation.“We’ve been here before,” said Farrah Khan, manager of the office of sexual violence support and education at Toronto’s Ryerson University. “We’ve had our watershed moment in Canada. We had this conversation. And what changed?”The four actresses who have accused Mr. Schultz were all young and starting out their careers when they landed coveted spots at the year-round theater company, which Mr. Schultz started with others in 1998.The power imbalance between them and Mr. Schultz, who took the company to New York last summer, was so great, they didn’t dare challenge him for fear of repercussions, said one of their lawyers, Alexi Wood.“Albert Schultz wasn’t just their boss,” Ms. Wood said. “Mr. Schultz was their mentor, their guide, their teacher and an icon in the theater world.”At the news conference, the women were joined by four fellow actors — three men and one woman — who all announced they would not work with Soulpepper until Mr. Schultz resigned or was fired.“It is our hope we are the tip of the iceberg, rather than the whole story,” said Ted Dykstra, a Soulpepper co-founder and the husband of a plaintiff. “And, really, we’re here to support these women.”A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Toronto Theater Director Resigns on Abuse Claims.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Sam Sifton
 

WHAT TO COOK
JAN. 3, 2018
Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Download the NYT Cooking app here.Good morning. How’s it going with your resolution to eat better in 2018? Some are going big on the shredded tofu and shiitake stir-fries. My interpretation allows that you can serve a two-pound aged rib-eye to seven people, at least so long as there’s a seven-yolk hollandaise to drizzle over the ruby-red slices of meat and a sheet-pan of smashed potatoes and a free-form salad of kale, crushed almonds, goat cheese and dried cranberries to take up the rest of the plate.That salad, incidentally, can stand as our no-recipe recipe of the week, the chance we provide readers each Wednesday to cook off narrative suggestion, rather than from listed instructions. The ratio of nuts and cheese and fruit to greens is up to you (though you can learn a lot about the math behind your decision from Julia Moskin’s ace guide to making salad), but I’ll help with the dressing: a big splash of buttermilk, a dab of Dijon mustard, a healthy squeeze of lemon juice, and enough olive oil to allow it all to come together in an emulsified whole. Salt and pepper to taste. Grate a clove of garlic in there, if you desire. (I like to mix in a few cranberries and nut crumbles as well.) With a baguette and some butter, it’s not a bad Wednesday night meal, not even close.If you’ve got a little more time, or just want to start daydreaming about cooking this coming weekend, check out John Willoughby’s ode to the country-style pork rib and his accompanying recipes: one for braised country-style pork ribs with chipotle; the other for pork stew with pears and sweet potatoes. They’ll bring some joy into your life, absolutely, as all that Doc writes and cooks manages to do. (We call him Doc. Now you can, too.)AdvertisementMelissa Clark has a new recipe as well, and it would make a nice dinner this week or weekend: a salad of roasted golden beets and winter squash. (As would, while we’re at it, her recent recipe for eggs in purgatory, which adds anchovy to the dish to amazing effect.) And, while it’s not quite so new, do consider making David Tanis’s dinner of sizzled five-spice shrimp with red pepper this week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many thousands more recipes are at NYT Cooking. (Why, here is a collection of recipes for healthy weekday lunches! And there a recipe for the chicken Marbella that was in your mom’s “Silver Palate Cookbook”!) Just sign up for a subscription, if you haven’t already, so that you can access them, organize them, rate them (five stars!) and leave notes on them, either for yourself or for our burgeoning community of the delicious.AdvertisementAnd if anything goes wrong along the way? Please reach out for help. We’re pleased to offer it. Just write cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll get back to you.Now, a long way from rutabagas and labneh, have you caught up with “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” yet, on Amazon? It is very, very fun — and holy smokes is Rachel Brosnahan a good actress. (Here’s Rachel Syme’s profile of her, which ran in The Times over Thanksgiving weekend.)How about Season 4 of “Peaky Blinders,” on Netflix? This one’s equal parts violence and close shots of Cillian Murphy’s eyelashes.Finally, since life oughtn’t be just binge-watching television shows and cooking dinner, maybe make some time to read Gabriel Tallent’s “My Absolute Darling” and see what you think. The sentences are beautiful, the language spare and tough. Parul Sehgal, in The Times, called it “accomplished and exasperating,” a book that moves quickly over “swift, shallow water.” And I think that’s about right, though I didn’t fully think it until I read Parul’s review and found myself nodding along. As A.O. Scott has it: Better living through criticism! (Read that book, too.) See you on Friday.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHRIS HORTONJAN. 2, 2018
TAIPEI, Taiwan — It is an age-old arrangement, and one that is usually implicit: Parents pay for their children’s educations, and hope that in their old age the children will support them.But in a case that made its way to Taiwan’s highest court, a mother who had financed her son’s dental training sued him, asserting that he had broken a written agreement to support her from the proceeds of his dental practice.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court sided with his mother.The case attracted considerable attention because the mother and son had put down in a written contract — signed when he was 20 — what is often left unsaid, particularly in a heavily Confucian-influenced society that emphasizes filial piety. The principle is backed up by law in Taiwan, where adults are legally prohibited from abandoning their parents.Each side advanced arguments: The mother urged the court to enforce the contract. The son maintained that he had already paid his mother $1 million and should not have to pay her more.AdvertisementAccording to news outlets in Taiwan, the woman, identified only by her surname, Luo, raised her two sons after she and their father divorced, putting both through dental school. (Her ex-husband remarried.)AdvertisementWhen she filed her lawsuit eight years ago, the woman said she had come from a well-to-do doctor’s family.“When I was young I came from a naïve and wealthy family and married into a military family that didn’t even have a license” to practice medicine, Ms. Luo said, according to Apple Daily in Taiwan. “I sacrificed all of my leisure time.”Ms. Luo’s family provided funds that enabled her to run a dental clinic where her husband, surnamed Chu, practiced until their divorce.Ms. Luo told the Supreme Court that when she worked as a single mother to put her sons through dental school, she was concerned that they might not help support her in old age, so she had each sign an agreement when they turned 20. Her sons both became practicing dentists in 2003, Apple Daily reported.The agreement stipulated that after becoming dentists, her sons would pay her 60 percent of their net profits until the total amount paid reached 50 million new Taiwan dollars, or just under $1.7 million.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.According to a report in The Liberty Times, the younger son told the court that he worked in his mother’s dental clinic and repaid her more than $1 million. Given that he signed the contract when he was only 20 — and that he had already paid back so much of his contractual debt to his mother — he argued that his debt should be cleared.The court disagreed, however, ruling on Tuesday that because he signed the agreement as a legal adult, he was responsible for satisfying its terms.The court ordered Dr. Chu to pay an “upbringing fee” of more than $754,000, with additional interest bringing the total award for his mother to more than $967,000.AdvertisementIn Taiwan, filial piety and education are widely recognized as important virtues, but young people face a tougher economic environment than their parents. The verdict drew mixed reactions.“I believe everyone should want to repay their parents for raising them once they’ve grown old,” one Taipei-based dentist, Wu Chih-hang, 30, said in a phone interview, “so I support the judges’ decision.”“I also sympathize with the dentist’s rough lot,” he said. “His mother went as far as to put a value on raising her son, which is probably a difficult environment for the average person to imagine growing up in.”On the website of EBC, a cable broadcaster, one commenter, Jason Chen, was less sympathetic to the mother. “The old woman got some serious cash — she got $1.7 million to raise a kid,” he wrote. “I’m not even sure if I cost $170,000 to raise.”But a Facebook user, Huang Ya-ling, was critical of Dr. Chu. “Unfilial people are beneath pigs and dogs,” she wrote.Follow Chris Horton on Twitter: @heguisen.A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Dentist in Taiwan Is Told To Pay Mother $967,000.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 23, 2018
Good Tuesday from a really snowy Davos. Here’s what we’re watching:• Jerome Powell won the support of 85 senators.• Three big companies announced their tax-related employee and philanthropic initatives.• Mick Mulvaney tells staff at the C.F.P.B. that there will be no more envelope-pushing.• Airbnb’s C.E.O. and C.F.O. have disagreements on strategy.• White Collar Watch takes a look at the KPMG case.Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.In garnering 85 votes, he enjoyed the broadest margin of approval of any nominee by the Trump administration for office that required Senate approval.AdvertisementPer The Hill, here are some of the lawmakers who opposed Mr. Powell’s nomination:Those opposed included conservative GOP Sens. Ted Cruz (Texas), Rand Paul (Ky.), Marco Rubio (Fla.), and Mike Lee (Utah), and potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidates Sens. Elizabeth Warren (Mass.), Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.), Kamala Harris (Calif.), and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).Mr. Powell is expected to largely continue the policies of his predecessor, Janet Yellen, whose term expires on Feb. 3.AdvertisementWho is Jay Powell: Here’s a refresher.One last defense of Ms. Yellen
            Jerome Powell will be confirmed as Fed Chair in 10 minutes. Let's take a walk down memory lane and remember what senators said about Yellen 4 years ago. As Victoria notes, no Fed Chair has ever gotten fewer votes for confirmation. (Thread) https://t.co/bzLfsSOJME Who had a harder time before the Senate: Martin Goodfriend, who is a nominee to join the Fed’s board of governors. Mr. Goodfriend had a tough time defending his assertion after the 2008 financial crisis that government intervention would spur high inflation — which never came.— Michael J. de la MercedDisneyPer a company press release:• More than 125,000 employees will receive a $1,000 cash bonus• The company will spend $50 million to cover hourly employees’ tuition costs for education or vocational training, including for courses unrelated to their current jobsThe total is $175 million this fiscal year.Notable: Disney C.E.O. Bob Iger is a Democrat who had previously weighed running for president. He didn’t explicitly link his company’s move to the tax bill, but it’s hard not to read the initatives that way.VerizonAnnounced on CNBC as part of the telecom giant’s fourth-quarter earnings rollout (emphasis added):Verizon says employees, other than top management, will receive 50 shares of restricted stock, the price of which will be set on February 1.About 155,000 employees will be affected, Verizon CEO Lowell McAdam told CNBC’s “Fast Money: Halftime Report” on Tuesday. The award could total over $400 million, based on Verizon’s current share price.The company said that it expects to reap an additional $3.5 billion to $4 billion in operating cash flow from the tax code change.JPMorganHere’s what the bank, whose C.E.O. has been a vocal proponent of the tax overhaul, is doing:• Raising wages by about 10 percent on average, to between $15 and $18 an hour, and improving benefits• Expanding branches, at a time when other banks are scaling back• Raising philanthropic giving by 40 percent, to $1.75 billion, over five years• Increasing lending to small businesses by $4 billion• Improving lending to low- to -moderate-income communities and to affordable housing projectsAdvertisementAll that will cost an estimated $20 billion.The comparison to other corporate titans• Walmart is raising minimum hourly wage to $11, from $9; handing out bonuses; and improving parental benefits. The wage rise and bonuses will cost about $700 million.• AT&T is handing out $1,000 bonuses to more than 200,000 employees and increasing capital spending by $1 billion. That’s somewhere north of $1.2 bilion.• Boeing is committing about $300 million to corporate giving, “training and education” for its employees and “workplace of the future” initiatives.Worth remembering: Arguably the wage raises have as much to do with tight labor markets and the desire of companies to keep existing employees or attract new ones as they do with the tax code change.— Michael J. de la MercedFrom a memo that Mr. Mulvaney, who is the acting chief (or one of two, depending on whom you ask) of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, sent to the agency’s staffers today:Indeed, I think it is fair to say that the previous governing philosophy here was to aggressively “push the envelope” in pursuit of the “mission;” that we were the “good guys” and the “new sheriff in town,” out to fight the “bad guys.”Simply put: that is what is going to be different. In fact, that entire governing philosophy of pushing the envelope frightens me a little. I would hope it would bother you as well.And:Writ large, I intend to exercise our statutory authority to enforce the laws of this nation. I intend to execute the statutory mandate of the Bureau to protect consumers. But we will no longer go beyond that mandate. If Congress wants us to do more than is set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act, they can change the law. Until then, we will enforce the law as currently written.The context: Mr. Mulvaney, a longtime critic of the C.F.P.B., has been working to rein in the bureau, a longtime target of Republican ire.— Michael J. de la MercedThe home rental company’s C.E.O., Brian Chesky, isn’t always seeing eye to eye with his C.F.O., Laurence Tosi, according to an article in The Information.In one instance, Mr. Chesky thought about starting an airline as Airbnb weighed a move into the air travel business. Mr. Tosi insisted on a lower-key approach of partnering with an existing app, according to the news site.The context: Mr. Tosi was brought in from Blackstone to help professionalize one of Silicon Valley’s biggest unicorn darlings, much as Ruth Porat joined Alphabet from Morgan Stanley. That was more than likely to foster a clash between Silicon Valley idealism and Wall Street pragmatism.AdvertisementMore from Cory Weinberg of The Information:Mr. Tosi, who moved with his wife and two young children to the Bay Area for the Airbnb job, has tried to fit in, swapping Wall Street suits for jeans and vests. But his arrival also was a shock to Airbnb’s culture, with its emphasis on an idealistic brand. Mr. Tosi sent marching orders across the company in 2016 that it had to get profitable. Before Airbnb could go public, it would have to have a better handle on predicting its earnings. “I believe we have built this path but can do more,” he wrote to employees.Mr. Tosi initiated cost-cutting efforts, including cuts to customer service and food staff, that longtime Airbnb employees saw as hurting the culture. But Airbnb’s cost per customer service “ticket” fell by 30% to 40% between 2016 and mid-2017 last year, an Airbnb official said, thanks largely to Mr. Tosi.Why it matters: Airbnb is expected to pursue an I.P.O. as soon as next year. Which vision for the company will win out?— Michael J. de la MercedThe charges against five former employees of KPMG and a former government accountant show the lengths an accounting firm will go to get a good report from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.The indictment is a bit odd, though, because the defendants are accused of defrauding both the S.E.C. and the accounting board. They used confidential information to help deal with potential problems in KPMG’s audits. But did getting a sneak peek at how they would be evaluated constitute theft, or just a form of cheating?Fraud is a type of larceny, and normally the perpetrator obtains something from the victim, who suffers a loss. But in this case, the scheme was to help KPMG clean up its act to get a better grade in pending reviews.In the world of white-collar crime, most fraud prosecutions involve at least some form of tangible gain to the defendants, and not a better report card. Courts have also required prosecutors to show there was at least some harm to the victim from the misuse of their property.One way around this issue would be to charge a breach of the honest services statute, but that’s not in the indictment. Nor did the Justice Department charged them under a law prohibiting the theft of government records. The S.E.C. did not accuse the accountants of securities fraud, only that they engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.A statement by Steven Peikin, the co-director of the S.E.C.’s enforcement division, said that the defendants were “literally stealing the exam.” I’m not sure that’s quite accurate, however, as it was more like learning when the teacher would give a pop quiz.Is that a fraud?— Peter J. Henning
            Pleased to welcome @anthonynoto as our next CEO, effective March 1! https://t.co/q2RWWOCChS At Twitter, Mr. Noto — former Goldman Sachs banker, former N.F.L. finance chief — was the highest-ranking full-time employee. (Jack Dorsey splits his time with Square, remember.)AdvertisementNow he will finally get to be a C.E.O. He’ll have his hands full at SoFi.The social media network made clear that it has a contingency plan:Noto’s responsibilities for the company’s business operations and revenue generating operations will be assumed by other members of Twitter’s leadership team. Matt Derella, Twitter’s Vice President of Global Revenue and Operations, will continue to lead the company’s advertising sales efforts.Mr. Dorsey offered his own statement on Mr. Noto’s departure:
            I’m really sad to see @anthonynoto leave us, but I’m happy for him and really proud of everything he’s accomplished at Twitter. He’s been a friend, partner, and mentor to me for years. He always has my support and gratitude. Thank you Anthony! We love you. https://t.co/wdI0rJqIck — Michael J. de la MercedHe’ll earn billions of dollars for leading Tesla over the next decade — or nothing.That’s under a new compensation plan that Andrew reported first today. Critics, and there are many, may regard it as yet another publicity stunt by the electric car marker, which has struggled to meet production targets for its Model 3.But Mr. Musk and the head of the Tesla board’s compensation committee said the arrangement would benefit shareholders, since it’s directly linked to company performance.Here’s what Mr. Musk told Andrew:“If all that happens over the next 10 years is that Tesla’s value grows by 80 or 90 percent, then my amount of compensation would be zero,” he said. (His calculations were based on the stock price at the beginning of this year, when the company was worth about $50 billion.)Trivia: California law requires that Tesla pay Mr. Musk minimum wage, even though he doesn’t want a salary. So it cuts him a check for a little over $37,000 each year, which he never cashes.Here’s what movers and shakers are saying in the Swiss Alps:Dara Khosrowshahi on Uber's very bad year:“The leaks, etc. led Uber to finally understand that it had to make the changes that it is making as a company, to break from the past and go forward as a company that does the right thing. And the press played a very very big part in it.”Marc Benioff of Salesforce on why trust has to be a company’s highest value (something he says isn’t always true in Silicon Valley):“What is the most important to you. Is it trust or is it growth? Because if anything trumps trust, then you are in trouble.”Michael Corbat of Citigroup on the “numbness” that has descended upon the global economy:“When the next turn comes — and it will come — it’s likely to be more violent than it would otherwise be if we let some pressure off along the way.”John Studzinski, a Blackstone vice chairman, on the focus on the world’s wealthiest:“Let’s stop talking about that and focus on whether the real working class is actually doing better.”More from the World Economic Forum• Did Emmanuel Macron persuade President Trump to attend? (Axios)• PWC’s latest survey of C.E.O.s survey shows record confidence — but also worries about terrorism, climate change and global politics. (CNBC)• Edelman’s newest trust barometer shows suspicion of public institutions rising fast among Americans — and the opposite in China. (Edelman)A year ago, the online art auctioneer found itself suddenly on its own, after its merger partner of just under a year filed for bankruptcy. Now the company, best known for selling a Wu Tang Clan album to Martin Shkreli, has struck a new deal.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Paddle8 is selling a 15 percent stake to The Native, a Swiss tech and ecommerce company, Michael is the first to report. That partnership will help it incorporate blockchain into its services as it seeks to expand into the wider luxury market. (And The Native has the option to buy a majority stake.)Advertisement“This is a way for us to show we can better align with a new generation of collectors,” Alexander Gilkes, a founder of Paddle8, told Michael.The virtual currency flyaround• UBS’s chairman, Axel Weber, warned that Bitcoin is speculative and is not advising clients to invest in it. (CNBC)• South Korea will ban the use of anonymous bank accounts in virtual currency trading, hoping to clamp down on crimes like money laundering. (Reuters)• The I.R.S. has similar concerns. (NYT)• Investors are desperate to buy into Coinbase, but shareholders aren’t allowed to sell. (Recode)• Alphaville parsed recent comments by the S.E.C.’s chief, Jay Clayton, about initial coin offerings. (FT)• Adding “blockchain” to your company’s name still pays off. (Bloomberg)Congress reopened the government after a three-day impasse. But the fate of the young immigrants known as Dreamers remains unclear. Moderate lawmakers prevailed after a bipartisan meeting that involved a Native American talking stick. Many liberal activists are unhappy.President Trump’s reaction:In the compromise: $31 billion in tax cuts, including a temporary delay for three health care taxes.The policy flyaroundAdvertisement• Read a draft of the White House’s infrastructure plan, including the lack of a higher gas tax. (Axios)• The F.B.I. director, Christopher Wray, threatened to resign if Attorney General Jeff Sessions removed his deputy Andrew McCabe, according to unnamed sources. (Axios)• The White House’s message for 2018: It’s all about the economy. (WaPo)• The Trump administration’s energy agenda faces a tougher year. (Politico)• Montana became the first state to roll out net neutrality rules after the F.C.C.’s were repealed. (Axios)The big tariffs the White House imposed yesterday on imported washing machines and solar energy components appear aimed at countries like China and South Korea. They may respond in kind, as well as by appealing to the W.T.O.Meanwhile, shares in affected companies appeared little changed. “Investors are not too worried about the news, because these sectors have already discounted possible tariff moves by Trump,” Linus Yip, the chief strategist at First Shanghai Securities, told Bloomberg.Mike Bloomberg, however, wasn’t happy.Britain’s Competition and Markets Authority said in a provisional ruling that 21st Century Fox’s offer was “not in the public interest.” So where does that leave Rupert Murdoch’s quest for control?Fox said that it still expects to win over the regulator before its final ruling in June.Sky is looking on the bright side, saying the authority suggested potential remedies. (Those included selling Sky News or protecting it from Murdochian influence.)AdvertisementIn other Murdoch news: Mr. Murdoch argued that Facebook and Google should pay trusted publishers a fee similar to the carriage payments that cable companies pay to channel operators. (Sky has long enjoyed some exceptions.)The media and tech flyaround• Another stellar earnings report from Netflix lifted its stock price, at least in after-hours trading. (FT)• Kevin Roose’s modest proposal for fixing Facebook: Make it more like Instagram. (NYT)• How Facebook reckoned with election fallout f and, overall, a not-so-great year. (WaPo)• Big tech companies set a record for spending on lobbying last year. (Axios)• Scott Galloway, a widely followed N.Y.U. professor of marketing, argues that the big four tech companies should be broken up. (Axios)• Bacardi will buy the 75 percent of Patron that it doesn’t already own, valuing the tequila maker at $5.1 billion. (Bloomberg)• The governor of Puerto Rico said it would sell its highly indebted power company. (WSJ)• Elliott Management and Bluescape are part of a consortium that has invested $2.5 billion in FirstEnergy, and could end up owning at least 16 percent of the troubled utility company. (WSJ)• A.I.G. agreed to buy Validus Holdings for $5.56 billion, signaling a return to expansion. (A.I.G.)• Dalian Wanda has hired Citigroup, CLSA and UBS to underwrite the I.P.O. of its sports business, according to unnamed sources. (Reuters)AdvertisementShareholder activism corner• Dan Loeb’s Third Point has pressed Nestlé to consider selling more brands — and keeping its L’Oréal stake. (NYT)• Alexion Pharmaceuticals said it had added Deborah Dunsire, a medical doctor and former C.E.O. of Millennium Pharmaceuticals, to its board, with the consent of Elliott. (Alexion)• Cerberus Capital Management’s founder, Stephen Feinberg, is the White House’s top pick to lead Mr. Trump’s Intelligence Advisory Board, according to unnamed sources. (Foreign Policy)• K.K.R. is opening a new office in Frankfurt, to be led by Christian Ollig, who worked on the proposed acquisition of Unilever’s spread business. (K.K.R.)• Six weeks after firing Harold E. Ford Jr. for misconduct, Morgan Stanley clarified that the misbehavior was not sexual. (NYT)• Bill Ackman is cutting almost a fifth of staff at Pershing Square and seeking less of a public profile after three years of losses, according to people familiar with the move. (Reuters)• China is considering adopting a property tax that could reshape and perhaps even destabilize its economy. (NYT)• Ando, a meal-delivery enterprise started by the chef David Chang, will be absorbed by Uber Eats. (NYT)Advertisement• The buyout industry is on a tear, but there are alarming signs that the boom could turn to bust. Buyout firms went out of business after a period of similar frenzied activity a decade ago. (FT)• The level of capital being injected into start-ups in China has raised concerns that it is the quantity of money available, rather than the quality of the investments, that will determine the outcomes. (FT)• The owner of an oil refinery rescued from the brink of closure by Carlyle in 2012 has filed for bankruptcy protection to restructure its debts. (FT)• Some of what’s at stake in Nafta negotiations: bacon, jeans and beer. (NYT)• To effectively combat misuse of shell companies, the U.S. would need a detailed registry of their owners. The cost of that might be the greatest impediment to real change in how assets can be hidden, writes the White Collar Watch columnist. (NYT)• Five former employees of KPMG and a former government accountant have been charged by federal prosecutors with plotting to help the firm get a leg up in a regulatory review of its auditing. (NYT)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JOHN WILLOUGHBYJAN. 2, 2018
When it comes to pork, most home cooks know the chop, the tenderloin, the loin roast, even the Boston butt. But because I am a sucker for the underdog and the oddball, I have a new favorite cut of pork: the country-style rib.Why oddball? First, it suffers from something of an identity crisis, since despite its name it’s not really a rib. Second, it has an indeterminate composition, consisting of both light and dark meat. Finally, it has a tendency to slide into disreputable territory, since its name is sometimes appropriated for less desirable cuts.But like any good antihero, the country-style rib has hidden virtues. It has rich, deep pork flavor; it is generally the most inexpensive cut of pork at the meat counter; and it is ideal for those slow-cooked dishes we crave in cool weather.To understand this cut, you first need to know the blade pork chop. This chop is cut from the two ribs at the shoulder end of the pork loin. Because it comes from the intersection of the tender loin and the more fat-laden and gnarly shoulder, it has qualities of both.Butchers used to have difficulty selling this chop, because it didn’t look as lean and smooth as those from the center of the loin. So it generally ended up as an ingredient in sausages or, less reputably, secreted at the bottom of a wrapped package of “loin chops.”AdvertisementThen sometime back in the late 1960s or early ’70s, a Chicago-area butcher, Cliff Bowes, came up with the idea of taking advantage of the popularity of ribs by fashioning these lowly chops into strips that resembled ribs. To do so, he butterflied the chops and cut through the ribs.AdvertisementYou can recognize these traditional country-style ribs by the slender section of rib that curves prettily along the bottom. I asked butchers in New York and Boston to cut me country-style ribs, and both did it this way.In a world in which everyone used the same words to mean the same thing, that would be the end of the story. But the approach of butchers tends to be more like that of Humpty Dumpty, who said in “Through the Looking-Glass,” “When I use a word, it means just what I choose it to mean.” So it’s not surprising that three other cuts are often marketed under this name.Sometimes instead of a curving rib bone, you’ll find a flat little two- or three-inch section of bone lurking along one edge of your country-style ribs. This means the chop was cut from the section of the shoulder just adjacent to the ribs; the bone is a piece of the scapula. But this is really not a big deal. Ribs fabricated in this fashion will have somewhat more fat and connective tissue and more dark meat, but are still close cousins of the more traditional cut, and cook up the same way.That’s not the end of it, though. Some butchers will cut the lower part of the pork shoulder into strips and label them “boneless country-style ribs.” They are still tasty and work well in long-cooking recipes, but you have to pay closer attention to what you’re getting and avoid those with excess amounts of fat and gnarl.Then there’s the higher-class impostor. Sometimes boneless rib-eye chops are fashioned into long, slender pieces and called country-style ribs. You can tell them clearly from their much lighter color and higher price — usually twice as expensive as the real thing. But since this portion of the pig is much leaner and therefore cooks differently, we’ll bypass these ersatz ribs for now.Any of the other versions, though, will work just fine, particularly in stews and braises.In addition to its proportion of lean meat to fat and collagen, the country-style rib also has a shape that makes it ideal for stews. It’s hard to find pre-cut pork stew meat in the supermarket, and even if you do it’s not a good idea to buy it, since it usually consists of ragged little odds and ends from around the pig.So the usual drill is to buy a Boston butt and butcher it, which is a considerable amount of work. Country-style ribs, on the other hand, have considerably less fat and gnarl than the butt and come in neat pieces that are easily sliced up.AdvertisementIn a similar way, country-style ribs brown quickly and fit neatly into a Dutch oven for long, slow braising.I don’t often go for pre-salting meat, because I rarely think far enough ahead to do it. But these ribs do benefit from the process, which somehow evens out the cooking times of the darker and lighter sections, so I recommend it.If you forget it, though, forge ahead. The results will still be delicious.Recipes: Braised Country-Style Pork Ribs With Chipotle | Pork Stew With Pears and Sweet PotatoesFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Kindest Cut, Simmered.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Margaret RenklNASHVILLE — Two weeks ago I was reading a book by a brilliant writer whose life was cut short by melanoma — “Dying: A Memoir,” by Cory Taylor — when I noticed a weird little growth on the skin just above my heart. A weird little growth right where long ago I used to slather a baby-oil-and-iodine concoction as I sat on a dorm roof during my college years. A weird little growth that suddenly struck me as almost certainly malignant melanoma.In the midst of a miraculous book, I tend to go overboard on empathy. I walk around inside a little bubble of mirth when I’m reading a really funny essay collection, and I carry a lingering sense of disquiet when I’m in the middle of an unsettling novel. If I read a memoir about dying, pretty soon I will believe I’m dying myself.When that little growth — really, more of an overachieving mole — popped up on my skin, I made an appointment with a dermatologist. It seemed like a good idea to ask a person with an actual medical degree to decide whether the irregular mole just above my heart was anything to be concerned about.A memoir about death by malignant melanoma is definitely not good waiting-room reading in a dermatologist’s office, so I studied the posters on the walls. There were ads for CoolSculpting, which can somehow eliminate a double chin in one hour without surgery; stem-cell injections that “Harness the Power of Platelet-Rich Plasma”; a “dermal filler” designed to “plump” inappropriately plumpless areas of the face; saline injections to reduce unsightly veins; a cream offering “free-radical protection”; and a plan for banishing underarm sweat that leaves patients “clean, confident, carefree forever.” There was also a small pamphlet on Botox, which seemed a little 20th century in the shiny new age of Platelet-Rich Plasma.Looking at this panoply of options for correcting errors of appearance I had carelessly committed with my 56-year-old skin and my drugstore moisturizer, I did not think, “Gosh, I should really look into getting myself some free-radical protection.” What I thought was, “Wouldn’t it be a luxury to spend any amount of time worrying about underarm sweat?” What I thought was, “I wish I lived in a world where my greatest worry was underarm sweat.”I spent last year in mourning for my country. I volunteered on behalf of people imperiled by the results of the 2016 election. I wrote checks to resistance efforts, hoping they would make a bigger difference than I could make by myself, and blog posts about nature, hoping they would focus my mind on eternal things. The devastations — to the poor, to the environment, to immigrants, to people of many faiths and races, to our nation’s very institutions — kept coming anyway. And all because a minority of my fellow citizens, through the auspices of an antique electoral system, had sent a lying, selfish, irrational, jingoistic, uneducable, race-baiting misogynist to the White House.“You’re a sentient being, and this is a stressful time to be a sentient being,” my longtime primary-care doctor said at my annual checkup in November. Since there is very little he can do to reform American politics, this wonderful doctor has devised an eating plan designed to reduce the flood of stress hormones into the bloodstream. He gave me a handwritten instruction sheet, suggesting I try it for a month after the holiday fire hose of brownies and Brie had shut down for another year.I wasn’t completely convinced. Not all that long ago, I publicly disavowed diets, and my doctor’s eating plan for sentient beings is so low in carbohydrates that it carries a strong whiff of dieting. Also, red wine does not appear on his list of permissible food items, so I made him no promises.Instead, I’m pledging this year to fight despair any way I can. Not just my own despair, but the despair of people who largely put this president in office. A republic cannot survive in a state of cataclysmic despair. A democracy relies on optimism, but the very wealthy are the only people who have any reason to enter the new year in a state of optimism, and their giddiness won’t last through even the first quarter of 2018. (Very wealthy people tend to be uncommonly gloomy. Which only goes to show that money truly can’t buy love or happiness, though it can buy the United States Congress.)In 2018, I’m resolved to do better at listening to people on every side. Empathy is always the best tool for fighting despair, and since trying to hear what’s behind all this anger and all this fear and all this defeatism is the surest route to empathy, I have unhidden the Bernie-or-busters I cut from my Facebook feed in 2016. And I’m listening to them alongside all the people I know who somehow believe the jury is still out on President Trump. I hope they’re listening to me, too. I hope we’re all listening to one another.The new year arrives in a flash of fireworks and a clink of glasses and a smiling kiss for a beloved. It’s a time for believing anything is possible, for setting out-of-reach goals and trying to reach them anyway, and for today, at least, I’m feeling a tiny little tug of optimism. The old, sad year is gone now, the darkest winter night is past, and the new year is open and whole and waiting. And this is the way the world changes: by trusting it can change.Margaret Renkl is a contributing opinion writer.AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 24, 2018
Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching:• The fallout from the Presidents Club dinner is growing.• An awkward dinner shared by Travis Kalanick and Dara Khosrowshahi at the World Economic Forum.• Qualcomm’s big fine by the E.U.• Tech giants’ struggles in Washington.• The fight atop Och-Ziff.• Katerra, a construction start-up, wins the backing of the SoftBank Vision Fund.Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.The Presidents Club dinner was a little-known charity event held at the posh Dorchester Hotel until yesterday, when the FT published a scathing investigation into the all-male-attendee event. What the news outlet discovered from its undercover reporting was what it described as a bacchanalia filled with drinking — and the groping of women hostesses.AdvertisementFrom the article by Madison Marriage, who said she, while working undercover, had been harassed:All of the women were told to wear skimpy black outfits with matching underwear and high heels. At an after-party many hostesses — some of them students earning extra cash — were groped, sexually harassed and propositioned.The event has been a mainstay of London’s social calendar for 33 years, yet the activities have remained largely unreported — unusual, perhaps, for a fund-raiser of its scale.Here’s what Anne Milton, an education minister, said of the event in a session of Parliament today:“There is an association between rich, wealthy people and this sort of behavior. It is quite extraordinary to me that in the 21st century allegations of this kind are still emerging. People need to know there is a line and where it is. This is also about attitude.”The responses • The Presidents Club said that it would not host any more events.• WPP, which had bought a table at the event over the years, said early today that it had ended its association with the event.Advertisement• An organizer of the event, the businessman David Meller, has stepped down from a nonexecutive chairman position at the Department of Education.• British lawmakers demanded that companies that had attended the event publish their employee gender ratios quickly.• The Bank of England said that Mark Carney would not follow through on a lunch that was auctioned off at the dinner.• Reporters began looking into the charity’s public financial reports, and were left unimpressed:
            Worth noting that as recently as 2014 Presidents Club annual dinner had income of £694,000 but cost £673,000.Starts to look a little like a massive party with a smaller charity attached.        • Britain’s charity overseer has begun an investigation into the allegations of sexual harassment.— Michael J. de la MercedHere at Davos, people are buzzing about businesses’ need to do good for society. (There’s an Equality Lounge on site at the World Economic Forum, and attendees are still talking about BlackRock’s new initiative.) And the singer Usher is here for a celebration of what would have been Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday.Travis Kalanick is at the World Economic Forum. He doesn’t have an official attendee badge, but he made the rounds at dinners and parties last night.Of course, officially invited is Uber’s current C.E.O., Dara Khosrowshahi, who was on a panel discussion that Andrew moderated yesterday. (Mr. Khosrowshahi told CNBC that his relationship with his predecessor was “fine, but strained.”)AdvertisementWhere it got awkward: Both men attended a dinner hosted by Jack Ma of Alibaba, according to our spies. They sat on opposite ends of the table.More from the Swiss Alps• As President Trump prepares to fly to the World Economic Forum, he is likely to feel vindicated coming to a club of elites that had long scorned him. (NYT)• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin argued that a weaker dollar is a good thing. (CNBC)• The #MeToo movement has sparked new discussions on gender equality. (NYT)• Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India urged attendees to embrace globalization and fight climate change. He is one of several world leaders expected to push back against Mr. Trump’s more nationalistic agenda. (NYT)• China’s point person here is Liu He, the architect of his government’s economic policy. (Bloomberg)• David Rubenstein of the Carlyle Group is worried that people aren’t worried. (CNBC)• The fashion industry is shaping the agenda of the World Economic Forum. (NYT)The slide in the American dollar gained momentum Wednesday after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said a weaker dollar was good for the United States.Robert Rubin, who served as Treasury Secretary in the Clinton Administration, was sharply critical of Mr. Mnuchin’s comments.Advertisement“I’ve always felt that our self interest was in having a strong dollar,” Mr. Rubin said in an interview in his office at the Council on Foreign Relations, where he is chairman emeritus.The best way for United States companies to compete globally, Mr. Rubin said, is for them to be “productive, efficient, and effective.” And the best way for the government to help them do that, he said, is through investments in education, infrastructure and other programs that improve the country’s long-term competitiveness.“Promote our ability to export by our investments in our economy,” Mr. Rubin said, “not by weakening our terms of trade.”Abandoning the United States’ longstanding strong-dollar policy, Mr. Rubin said, would carry risks to both the United States economy and the global financial system.“A loss of confidence in our currency could also undermine our interest rate markets and our equities markets,” he said. A strong-dollar policy, by contrast, will “maintain the confidence of the world in our currency and our economy.”— Ben CasselmanThe big fine from European antitrust regulators bolsters Margrethe Vestager’s standing as perhaps the world’s most aggressive overseer of tech companies.More from Chad Bray of the NYT:The penalty of 997 million euros follows a two-year investigation into allegations that the company abused a dominant market position in Europe. Officials in Brussels say that Qualcomm offered financial incentives to Apple so that it would buy equipment solely from Qualcomm. Qualcomm can appeal the ruling, which would probably extend a case that was originally announced in the summer of 2015, for years to come.The Democratic Party once embraced Silicon Valley. But with questions arising about the power of companies like Google and Facebook — as well as the role they played in Russia’s interference with the 2016 election — politicians and activists alike are calling for tighter scrutiny and regulation.More from Cecilia Kang and Daisuke Wakabayashi in the NYT:“Democrats and progressives still strongly feel that there are shared values with Silicon Valley, but there is also a real concern over the industry’s increasingly concentrated wealth and power,” said Daniel Sepulveda, an ambassador and deputy assistant secretary at the State Department for the Obama administration.(Democrats are also pressing for disclosures into whether Russian bots are helping to manipulate public opinion on Robert Mueller’s investigation.)AdvertisementMeanwhile, frenemies are applying pressure. AT&T is arguing that net neutrality rules should apply to Facebook and Google if they are to be applied to broadband service providers.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The tech flyaround• Airbnb’s C.E.O., Brian Chesky, and its C.F.O., Laurence Tosi, are increasingly disagreeing over strategy as the company prepares for a potential initial public offering next year. (The Information)• Read Facebook’s user survey on the trustworthiness of news publications. (BuzzFeed)• The $100 million sale of Practice Fusion, a medical records start-up, made its executives millions but left employees with nothing. (CNBC)• The Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, said that funding for the White House’s proposed border wall is off the negotiating table as Democrats and Republicans resume negotiations over the fate of the young immigrants known as Dreamers. (NYT)• The Senate confirmed Jerome Powell as the Federal Reserve’s next chairman, by 84-13. (The Hill)• Both Attorney General Jeff Sessions and James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, answered questions from Robert Mueller as part of the special counsel’s investigation. And Mr. Trump reportedly asked Andrew McCabe, the F.B.I.’s deputy director, how he voted in the 2016 election as the White House weighed replacements for Mr. Comey. (NYT, WaPo)• Have Mr. Trump’s solar panel tariffs endangered the industry in the U.S.? (NYT)• Representative Patrick Meehan, Republican of Pennsylvania, denied harassing a much-younger aide but admitted that he responded poorly when he learned that she had a boyfriend. (NYT)What was supposed to be a seamless transition from Dan Och to his heir apparent, Jimmy Levin, has become a cold war within the $33 billion hedge fund, according to the WSJ.AdvertisementNow Mr. Och has indicated that he does not want the younger executive to take over. Och-Ziff is interviewing outside candidates for C.E.O. Mr. Levin is thinking about leaving. And some investors are considering withdrawing money amid the turmoil.What happened: As Mr. Levin grew in stature, he began to press for more responsibility and money, irritating his mentor, the newspaper reported.More from Greg Zuckerman and Rob Copeland of the WSJ:In late December, the five independent directors of Och-Ziff’s seven-member board presented the plan to move forward with the succession this year and unanimously voted to approve it.“This is where the board wants to go,” a board member told Mr. Och.Mr. Och said he wouldn’t accept the plan.Here’s what Disney, Verizon and JPMorgan Chase are doing:• Disney will spend $175 million on cash bonuses and a new education initiative.• Verizon will give out stock awards to employees that could total more than $400 million.• JPMorgan will spend $20 billion over the next five years on hourly wage raises, bigger philanthropic giving and more bank branches in economically disadvantaged areas.The bigger pictureFrom Jim Tankersley of the NYT:The gap between what companies are saving and how they are, so far, rewarding workers, doesn’t mean that the new law won’t eventually lead to substantial wage increases. Economists across the political spectrum agree it’s simply too soon to tell whether — and to what degree — that will happen.The Japanese giant’s Vision Fund has led an $865 million investment in Katerra, a three-year-old construction firm. It’s the latest big bet by SoftBank.Katerra — founded by the former Flextronics C.E.O. Michael Marks, the Silver Lake co-founder Jim Davidson and the real estate investor Fritz Wolff — is essentially a one-stop shop for offices and apartment buildings, from architectural design through actual construction.The bigger picture: Katerra wants to go public eventually, Mr. Marks, told Michael. “Over time, we expect that we might get offers — but this is intended to stay an independent company,” he said. “This will be a public company at some point.”• ComScore, which had been under pressure from Starboard Value, has hired Goldman Sachs to explore a sale, according to unidentified sources. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• The parent company of the dating app Bumble has hired JPMorgan Chase to run a potential sale that could value it at $1.5 billion, according to unidentified sources. (CNBC)• JD.com is considering a public listing for its logistics business. (CNBC)• HNA Group is seeking outside investors for two Hong Kong properties that it bought last year for $1.8 billion. (Bloomberg)The next big growth could be in Bitcoin spinoffs in which developers clone Bitcoin software, release it with a new name, a new coin and perhaps new features. The clones have included Bitcoin God and Bitcoin Pizza.More on the phenomenon from Olga Kharif of Bloomberg:“Unfortunately, most fork-based projects we see today are more of a sheer money grab,” said George Kimionis, chief executive officer of Coinomi, a wallet that lets Bitcoin owners collect their new forked coins. “Looking back a few years from now we might realize that they were just mutations fostered by investors blinded by numerical price increases.”In other virtual currency news: Stripe is ditching Bitcoin as a payment method. And here’s a profile of Brandon Chez, the man behind CoinMarketCap.com, a top source of market data for digital currencies.• Anthony Noto is leaving Twitter to become SoFi’s C.E.O. Shares in the social media company fell 2.5 percent after the announcement. (NYT)• Facebook’s chief marketing officer, Gary Briggs, is retiring to advise companies like Lending Club and to become more active helping Democrats in upcoming elections. (Recode)• Uber has hired Bo Young Lee from the financial services firm Marsh as its first chief diversity officer. (Recode)“We’ve done Davos. Now I just need to do Burning Man.”— Overheard by a DealBook tipster at Davos.• Donations are being pulled by the likes of WPP from the Presidents Club Charitable Trust after an FT investigation revealed sexual harassment of women at its men-only charity dinner. (FT, FT)Advertisement• Companies in France have not waited to take advantage of new rules in the country’s labor overhaul that make it easier to hire and fire employees. But other changes designed to cushion the blow, like retraining programs, have not yet been put into place. (NYT)• Steve Varsano — the owner of Jet Business, whose retail space in London is the world’s only walk-in storefront jet dealership — sees President Trump’s election as a harbinger of great things for his industry. (NYT)• When it comes to fighting climate change, the idea that countries can be cajoled into cutting emissions further or that laggards can be shamed into falling into line is just wishful thinking, Eduardo Porter writes. (NYT)• Kimberly-Clark, the maker of Huggies and Kleenex, is laying off about 13 percent of its work force and shedding factories amid declining birthrates and a retail price war. (NYT)• Toys “R” Us plans to close about 180 stores in the United States as it seeks to exit from bankruptcy proceedings. (WSJ)• The Department of Education plans to offer students prepaid bank cards that would hold loan money that is not needed for tuition, giving the government and financial services providers a peek at students’ spending. (NYT)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By LUIS FERRÉ-SADURNÍDEC. 31, 2017
Minutes before Sunday Mass at St. Martin of Tours Roman Catholic Church in the Bronx, as the music began, a man approached the Rev. Cosme Fernandes.“Good morning, Father,” the man said. “I used to live in this neighborhood and I just drove in a truck full of clothes, but they told us they can’t take any more donations. What do I do?”Father Fernandes had no answer for the man, who had brought the donations for the survivors of a fire that killed 12 people on Thursday. The fire, the deadliest in New York City in more than 25 years, destroyed an apartment building in the mostly-immigrant neighborhood of Belmont, two blocks from the church.A collection drive organized by the Police and Fire Departments turned into a remarkable outpouring of support that was ended after just one day because of the overwhelming response. On Sunday, people were turned away.Advertisement“The way we’ve received support from the Bronx and beyond is a sign that the victims are not alone, that we are united,” Father Fernandes said during the homily at a Spanish Mass. Father Fernandes, 49, also reminded the congregation that Emmanuel Mensah, an Army National Guard soldier who died trying to get people out of the building, was once a parishioner.Advertisement“Many of you asked me how we should make sense of this tragedy,” he said. “Brothers, I don’t have all the answers. But we can live through this event by supporting each other.”Next door, at a gym leased by the church to Public School 51, police officers and volunteers sorted through mounds of coats piled on plastic tables. Hundreds of trash bags stuffed with clothes obstructed the way. Toy trucks, diapers and canned goods were stacked high.María Luisa Guzmán, a volunteer, said that by 2 p.m. Saturday the gym had overflowed with donations. Another collection site was opened at the nearby Our Lady of Mount Carmel Roman Catholic Church, and it also filled to capacity.“People suffered in our community,” Ms. Guzmán, 54, said. “One day it may be us suffering like this, and I’m sure people will be there to help, too.”“We just had to do something, especially this time during the Christmas season,” said Jean Reynolds, 68, a Eucharistic minister and longtime parishioner at St. Martin’s. “Even though it’s a tragedy, it can be considered a wake-up call to be there for our neighbors.”Outside the gym, a police officer stood watch, holding a cardboard sign that read: “No more donations. Thanks.”Detective Roberto Oviedo turned away dozens of people driving in with packed trunks.“It’s great, the generosity from the city, but we’re overwhelmed here,” Detective Oviedo said.AdvertisementAmanda Finn, 33, of Stamford, Conn., walked away from the gym with bags of toiletries, gloves and jeans she and her mother, Barbara Finn, had just bought.“That’s amazing that so many people came,” said Amanda Finn, a graduate student studying social work at Fordham University. She said they might try to drop the donations at a nearby shelter.“Makes you want to cry,” Barbara Finn, 56, added.Jessica Cadiz, 43, drove from Rockland County after she saw the need for donations on Facebook. She, too, was turned away.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I bought children’s clothes and did my New Year’s Eve cleanup for this,” Ms. Cadiz said.Later Sunday, Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan visited Engine Company 88, the firehouse nearest to the scene of the fire. Cardinal Dolan thanked the firefighters, said James Long, a spokesman for Fire Department.Near the scorched building, many shops on 187th Street remained closed on Sunday. Hundreds of candles lined the sidewalk, most blown out by the cold wind, but passers-by occasionally stopped to relight them.In black marker on a white balloon, someone wrote: “RIP Maria B. Watch over our princess. We love you always.”Walking past the balloon, Victoria Almonte, 35, told a friend about Maria Batiz, who died in the fire along with her 7-month-old granddaughter, Amora.Ms. Almonte, who lives in a neighboring building, said she frequently saw Ms. Batiz “walk up and down the street with that very happy baby.”“That same day of the fire, that morning, I saw her with the girl at the bodega here,” Ms. Almonte said in Spanish, standing next to a photo of Ms. Batiz and Amora.Follow Luis Ferré-Sadurní on Twitter @luisferre.A version of this article appears in print on January 1, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Overwhelmed by Donations, From Near and Far, for Bronx Fire Survivors.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
California Today By                     
 TIM ARANGO
 
JAN. 24, 2018
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Across Los Angeles, they sleep in tents, under tarps or out in the open air, and their numbers are growing. Last year the population of homeless people on the streets of Los Angeles increased 23 percent, and officials believe the numbers have continued to rise.This week the city will start to find out just how much.Starting Tuesday night in the San Fernando, Santa Clarita and San Gabriel Valleys, thousands of volunteers fanned out to neighborhoods to count the homeless, an annual three-day exercise that in recent years has confirmed an alarming crisis in Los Angeles County.The count, along with demographic surveys, will help policymakers decide how to spend public money: $355 million per year raised by Los Angeles county from a special sales tax, and a $1.2 billion city bond issue to build housing for the homeless.Once mostly associated with Skid Row, the vast tent encampment in downtown Los Angeles, the homeless are now spread out across the city, setting up tents under highway overpasses and moving into affluent neighborhoods like Bel-Air, where a wildfire that threatened the area’s mega-mansions was sparked last year by a cooking fire at a homeless encampment.AdvertisementAs the homeless population has grown, the old stereotypes — of single men, mentally ill or addicted — have been upended. Now the crisis, not just in Los Angeles but across California, is closely connected with another of state’s challenges: an overheated housing market. Many of those who have recently fallen into homelessness have jobs, but have been pushed to the streets by skyrocketing rents.Advertisement“I think the causes are pretty clear and explicit,” said Peter Lynn, executive director of the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority. “Los Angeles is absolutely at the center of a crisis of housing affordability.”So far, officials say 7,500 people have signed up as volunteers. But they want a few more, and hope to have roughly 8,000 people participate, the same number as last year. There is still time, they say, to join the effort on Wednesday night, in East and West L.A. and South Bay/Harbor Cities, and Thursday, in Metro and South L.A. and in the Antelope Valley.Are you one of the volunteers? Or, if you did you not participate, do you have an experience to share about your interactions with the homeless? We’d like to hear from you at CAtoday@nytimes.comThe news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• A growing number of Democrats are becoming disillusioned with Silicon Valley, fearing that sites like Facebook have become a conduit for disinformation campaigns directed at our democracy. [The New York Times]• Oprah for… county supervisor? Forget running for president, the columnist Joe Mathews advises Oprah Winfrey. Instead, her own community in Santa Barbara, ravaged by fires and mudslides, needs her more Mr. Mathews writes. [Zocalo Public Square]• “The eerie thing about these nights in Montecito has to do with absence,” writes the novelist T. Coraghessan Boyle for The New Yorker. [The New Yorker]Advertisement• Civic pride: With Lady Bird, the coming-of-age drama set in Sacramento, capturing five Oscar nominations, a writer wonders if the movie’s success will lead to more filmmaking in the capital and its environs. [The Sacramento Bee]• An American immigrant story. She was born in Arizona in 1925, but as a child her family was sent back to Mexico. She came back to America, settled in Los Angeles, built up a successful tortilla business, founded a bank and went on to become the top Mexican-American in the Nixon Administration. Romana Acosta Banuelos died on Jan. 15 in Redondo Beach. She was 92. [Los Angeles Times]• Democrats are beginning to line up to boycott President Trump’s State of the Union speech. Among them: Representative Maxine Waters of California. (Roll Call)• The California state payroll increased by $1 billion last year, twice the rate of growth of the previous year. This reflects labor agreements that gave state workers substantial raises. [Sacramento Bee]• 40 Days of Devastation. The Thomas Fire blazed through 280,000 acres of Santa Barbara and Venture counties, becoming the state’s largest wildfire on record. To tell the scope of that story, the Los Angeles Times produced an interactive 3D map. [Los Angeles Times]• The Olympics begin Feb. 9, and from bobsled to figure skating to skiing, California will be well represented. [The Sacramento Bee]• Google won’t be helping to send someone to the moon anytime soon. The company said Tuesday it would cancel its Lunar X Prize competition, which had sought to launch the first privately funded mission to the moon, because none of the entrants could make the deadline in March. [The New York Times]• Pam MacKinnon, a Tony-winning director, is the next leader of the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco. [The New York Times]Advertisement• San Francisco has a new interim mayor: Mark Farrell, a city supervisor and former venture capitalist will run the city until a special election in June. The replacement of London Breed, an African American woman, stirred charges of racism from Ms. Breed’s supporters. [San Francisco Chronicle]We recently asked you what you thought about a bill that was introduced recently by two state lawmakers from Los Angeles to name surfing the state’s official sport.You had plenty to say.“Ridiculous.”“Absurd.”“Great.”“All for it.”There was no consensus, clearly, but the question stirred passions.Some said that surfing, even though it is closely identified with California culture, is not reflective of the state’s diversity, both in matters of ethnicity and race and geography. “Surfing — a white man’s sport,” one reader wrote. Another wrote that surfing is, “characterized by young whites, mainly males, mainly from middle-class to affluent backgrounds in coastal areas. Let’s try again folks.”Arguing in favor, one writer, of the “early Boomer generation,” said that surfing is already the state’s unofficial sport. “Bringing this phenomenon into ‘official’ status will celebrate exactly what we Californians already know. Hang ten!”Some offered up alternatives, saying they were more democratic. Sports like soccer, hiking, biking, skateboarding and skiing. Others said they were fine with it if doing so would give California more ability to protect the oceans, and push back on a Trump administration plan to open coastal areas to offshore drilling.Still others thought the question was simply a waste of time, for lawmakers and readers, and wondered why we were having the discussion in the first place. As one reader put it, “Why not leave it as it is, with no state sport, that way people will not be angry about something that is so unimportant?”California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
JAN. 24, 2018
Good morning on this clear-skied Wednesday.Here’s a riddle that some in the city are trying to solve: How do you stage a winter festival when winter is unseasonably warm?Short answer: technology.During the last few years, Winter Jam in Central Park has become a climatological crapshoot.The event, which typically offers sledding, snowshoeing and ski lessons to around 15,000 New Yorkers, was called off in 2012 because there was not enough snow, and it was canceled again four years later — because of a blizzard. Last year, the festival, billed as New York City’s “ultimate snow day,” went on with no snow at all.“We’ve learned to work with what we have,” said Anthony Sama, the director for special events for the city’s Parks Department. “That means moving forward with or without help from Mother Nature.”AdvertisementWhile the event used to depend on actual snow, the Parks Department now relies on a platoon of “snow guns” brought in from an upstate ski resort to build artificial snow hills.AdvertisementEven then, it’s not easy.To create a hill that’s large enough to survive warm weather and rain, the snow guns must spray microscopic droplets of water into air that is 28 degrees, or below, for five days.Winter Jam is this Saturday, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., by the Naumburg Bandshell. To see how the snowscape was holding up, we stopped by the park this week. On an empty roadway, a group of 12-foot piles of snow sat glistening in the sun, protected by police-style barricades. It was the only snow around, and it wasn’t very fluffy.“It has a hard icy surface from the rain, but that’s covering the powder underneath,” Mr. Sama said. On Friday, he added, a snow groomer will break up what’s left and shape it into hills of white. Ideally.If the snow doesn’t last until the weekend, the Parks Department has a backup plan — winter-themed activities that don’t require snow: “arctic golf,” a version of miniature golf where ice sculptures replace the windmills, and “arctic bowling,” regular bowling but outdoors.With sunny skies and a predicted high near 50, the Parks Department is also breaking out other warm-weather activities — dodge ball and shuffleboard — just in case.Here’s what else is happening:Rock your shades, it’s a brilliant day.But don’t get too comfortable. It’s cooler than yesterday — the high is 39 — and you’ll want to take a warm coat.Leave the umbrella at home.• Grandma the clown, a revered star of the Big Apple Circus, resigned after it was revealed that he pressured a 16-year-old aerialist into posing for pornographic photos. [New York Times]• An appeals court freed a man who had been found guilty on marijuana charges after a series of mishaps and court mishandlings caused him to have to wait seven years for his trial to begin. [New York Times]Advertisement• Mayor Bill de Blasio set a target of opening up 20 of his 90 homeless shelters that were laid out in his “vision” plan before the end of 2017. Only 10 have opened. [New York Times]• Opening statements were made in the federal corruption trial of Joseph Percoco, a former friend and adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. [New York Times]• New York City has sued Big Pharma drug companies over the opioid crisis, joining a national campaign to hold those companies responsible for costs related to the epidemic. [New York Times]• Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey signed an executive order aimed at loosening the state’s restrictive medical marijuana policies. [New York Times]• The Brooklyn district attorney, Eric Gonzalez, has formed a committee of more than 50 criminal justice experts in hopes of sustaining his predecessor’s legacy of reform. [New York Times]• In “About New York,” the columnist Jim Dwyer contemplates how the feud between the governor and the mayor is holding New York City back. [New York Times]• Wyatt Tee Walker, a Harlem leader and chief of staff to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died at 88. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• The city has chosen four artists who will work with different agencies to develop projects and use public art projects to address social issues affecting the city. [New York Times]Advertisement• After her work was absent from New York stages for 17 years, the Japanese choreographer Kei Takei returned to speak about Juilliard, technique and finding dance in nature. [New York Times]• An inmate at Rikers Island allegedly called for medical assistance for nearly an hour before the staff responded, five days before his death. [New York Daily News]•The soldier who gave his life rescuing others in the deadly Bronx fire last month will have a street named after him. [PIX 11]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Thank You for Your Service”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Break a sweat, and relax, at a meditative yoga class, at the Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 9:30 a.m. [Free]• Bring your existential questions to the Ask a Philosopher booth at Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan. Noon to 4 p.m. [Free]• The author Vanessa K. Valdes discusses her book “Diasporic Blackness: The Life and Times of Arturo Alfonso Schomburg” at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• Learn how to make fish soup with lemongrass and tomatoes at a Lao cuisine cooking class at the Alley Pond Environmental Center in Little Neck, Queens. 7 p.m. [$24]Advertisement• The graphic artists R. Sikoryak and Sasha Matthews discuss graphic literature at Book Culture on the Upper West Side. 7 p.m. [Free]• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.The Off Broadway Alliance has kicked off its biannual 20at20 promotion, which offers theatergoers $20 tickets to most Off Broadway shows through Feb. 11.Among the 27 productions offering discounted tickets are a few New York Times Critic’s Picks.• “Avenue Q,” a musical puppet show for adults, won the Tony for Best Musical in 2004, besting “Wicked” in a huge upset. Even through its multiple iterations, from Off Broadway to Broadway and back, it has charmed our critic Ben Brantley, who wrote that “pretty much anyone who remembers arriving in New York, fresh from school, without a trust fund or a sugar daddy (or momma), will find grounds for identifying with those rudderless figures onstage.”• “Bright Colors and Bold Patterns” reopened at the end of last year at the SoHo Playhouse. “Plays do not get much gayer than ‘Bright Colors,’” our critic wrote. “Set poolside, this 80-minute evening is essentially an audience with Gerry, who suffers from a serious case of ADHD, throws back cocktails as if they were cleansing juices, possesses a voluminous knowledge of pop culture (who is Shannon Elizabeth, anyway?), wields an acerbic wit that could flay you at 50 paces and has no off button.”• “Drunk Shakespeare.” The conceit here is simple: A truncated version of a Shakespeare classic is performed while one cast member takes shots. Our critic wrote that what sets “Drunk Shakespeare” apart from other productions where actors are impaired “is that alcohol isn’t the main character. It’s more like an enabler, allowing the actors (sober and drunk) to take all sorts of liberties with Shakespeare, but skillfully.”You can see a list of the other discounted Off Broadway productions and read our reviews here.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHRIS STANFORDJAN. 23, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• It’s over, three days after it began.The federal government reopened Monday night after Senate Democrats agreed to a short-term spending bill without addressing the fate of young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.The vote exposed a rift between moderate Democrats who are up for re-election this year in states President Trump won and their more liberal counterparts. Here’s how every senator voted.Tucked into the measure that will fund the government through Feb. 8: $31 billion more in tax cuts.• Immigration activists were furious, but our chief Washington correspondent notes the quandary that Democrats faced: “While the Dreamers may be a highly sympathetic group, using them as a rationale for shuttering the federal government was not playing well.”• Talks to rework the North American Free Trade Agreement, which President Trump has called a “disaster,” resume this week.AdvertisementWith the future of the 24-year-old pact uncertain, we looked at three products that Nafta has shaped.Advertisement• Separately on Monday, the U.S. slapped steep tariffs on washing machines and solar energy cells and panels, the first major step to erect the kind of trade barriers that Mr. Trump has said are necessary to protect American manufacturers.• Turkey is waging an all-out assault against Syrian Kurds, American allies against the Islamic State. Turkey considers them terrorists and a threat to its territorial sovereignty.The offensive, carried out over the protests of the U.S. but apparently with the assent of Russia, demonstrates how much leverage Washington has lost in Syria, where the American focus has been on vanquishing Islamist militants.• Now that ISIS is in retreat, the White House is trying to maintain relations with the Kurdish fighters without further alienating the Turks. Here’s background information on the conflict.• Attorney General Jeff Sessions was questioned for several hours last week by the special counsel’s office as part of the investigation into Russia’s meddling in the election, according to a Justice Department spokeswoman.•  It is  the first time that investigators for the special counsel, Robert Mueller III, are known to have interviewed a member of President Trump’s cabinet.• An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.9 struck 170 miles off the southern coast early today, prompting a tsunami warning.AdvertisementThere were no immediate reports of damage.• A strong quake also struck off the southern coast of the Indonesian island of Java, rocking buildings in the capital, Jakarta.• In the latest decision striking down political maps that unduly favor one party, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said on Monday that Republican-nominated districts “clearly, plainly and palpably” violated the state’s Constitution.A new map must be submitted by next month, the court said.• We looked at  the ruling’s implications for Pennsylvania’s electoral future.The border wall has become the symbol of President Trump’s hard-line immigration policy. So why did Democrats offer to fund it if Republicans protect young undocumented immigrants?• The World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, begins today. There’s a sense of optimism as populist movements wane. (There’s also plenty of snow.)The conversation is already dominated by one topic: What will President Trump say? You can find all of our Davos coverage here.• Elon Musk has agreed to stay on as Tesla’s chief executive for the next decade, with his pay tied to $50 billion increases in the company’s valuation. Otherwise, he makes zero.• Six weeks after firing the former congressman Harold Ford Jr. for unspecified misconduct, Morgan Stanley clarified that the misconduct was not sexual in nature.• One of our tech columnists asks: Is a healthier Facebook like … Instagram?• U.S. stocks were up on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• The best trick to increase productivity? Just get started.Advertisement• How to maintain friendships.• Recipe of the day: Make the best broccoli and Cheddar soup you’ve ever had.• Partisan writing you shouldn’t missWriters from across the political spectrum discuss the end of the government shutdown.• In memoriamNaomi Parker Fraley was the long-unrecognized inspiration for Rosie the Riveter, a bit of 1940s popular culture who became a feminist touchstone in the late 20th century. She was 96.• And the nominees are …“The Shape of Water,” directed by Guillermo del Toro, led today’s nominations for the 90th Academy Awards, with 13.“Dunkirk” and “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri” were close behind. Here’s the full list of nominees.The Oscars ceremony is March 4.• A new coach in New YorkThe Giants, who lost 13 games this season for the first time in the team’s 92-year history, named Pat Shurmur as head coach.He was formerly the offensive coordinator with the Minnesota Vikings.• You asked. Our new publisher answered.AdvertisementA. G. Sulzberger responded to questions from readers about his role and the future of The Times.Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Best of late-night TVThe shutdown ended, but Seth Meyers wasn’t exactly rejoicing.• Quotation of the day“People normally do not throw a bachelor party without a bachelor.”— Justice Clarence Thomas, writing the majority opinion in a Supreme Court ruling that the police were entitled to arrest late-night partygoers at what some had claimed was a bachelor party.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.“Remember the Maine!” was a rallying cry of the Spanish-American War. Many North Americans surely remember the Alamo. But has the U.S.S. Pueblo been forgotten?On this day in 1968, the Pueblo, a Navy intelligence ship, was attacked and seized by North Korean patrol boats. Its 83 crew members were taken to Pyongyang and charged as spies, drawing a tense Cold War standoff.A Times editorial called the attack “humiliating,” and a prisoner drama — marked by fraught negotiations, forced confessions and propaganda ploys — dragged on for 11 months. Here’s more about the Pueblo incident.The Americans told of beatings, torture and deprivation, but they still found ways to get back at their captors. They slipped outrageous puns into self-written confessions, such as this one by the ship’s commander, and surreptitiously raised their middle fingers in films and photographs. (The sailors said it was the Hawaiian good luck salute.)AdvertisementIn the end, Washington reluctantly apologized, and the Pueblo crew was home in time for Christmas. The Pueblo itself is still in Pyongyang, where it’s a tourist attraction at the Victorious War Museum.Charles McDermid contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Sunday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ANDY NEWMANJAN. 23, 2018
One of America’s most revered circus performers, Grandma the clown, has resigned from the world-renowned Big Apple Circus after it was revealed that he pressured a 16-year-old aerialist into posing for pornographic photos in 2004.Barry Lubin, 65, who played Grandma in a wig, pearls and a lumpy red dress to audiences of millions, offered his resignation on Friday shortly after the former aerialist contacted the circus to accuse him, said the circus’s chairman, Neil Kahanovitz, on Tuesday.Mr. Lubin, through his lawyer, released a statement Tuesday night acknowledging and apologizing for his conduct. “The allegations,” the statement said, “are true. What I did was wrong, and I take full responsibility for my actions.”Dr. Kahanovitz had told the accuser, Zoey Dunne, after receiving her letter, “We found the allegations put forth in your correspondence very disturbing.”AdvertisementThe circus just finished its annual three-month run at Lincoln Center in Manhattan, and will now open in Alpharetta, Ga., on Friday without its longtime star. Mr. Lubin, who spent decades at the pinnacle of his profession, becomes the latest antagonist in the string of sexual-misconduct scandals involving men who have taken advantage of less powerful people.AdvertisementMs. Dunne initially contacted the circus about Mr. Lubin in 2012. But at that time, he had recently left Big Apple, and a circus official told her they recognized the seriousness of her allegations, but that there was little they could do.Then three months ago, Ms. Dunne, now 29, married, and pursuing a doctorate in school psychology in Seattle, learned on Facebook that he had rejoined the circus.“I saw this ad that said ‘Grandma is back!,’” she said on Monday, “and I almost threw up on the bus.”The circus had changed hands in early 2017. Dr. Kahanovitz said that he did not know about Ms. Dunne’s earlier accusation.“I was not aware of any allegations until Friday,” he said, adding that no one at the circus whom Ms. Dunne had reached out to in 2012 was still with the circus at the time that Mr. Lubin was rehired last year.Ms. Dunne said that she first met Mr. Lubin when she was touring New England with Circus Smirkus, a youth troupe that Mr. Lubin helped coach as recently as last summer. (Circus Smirkus also runs a summer camp; Mr. Lubin never taught there.)She gave the following account:During Big Apple’s 2004 New York season, Mr. Lubin contacted her and offered her work with Big Apple’s mini-troupe for hire. Ms. Dunne, then known as Zoey Phillips, had dreamed of a circus career. She was thrilled.Advertisement“All I can remember is feeling that it was like this great mentorship opportunity,” she said.But first, Mr. Lubin told her, he had another job for her: modeling, for what he described as his personal photography business.She came to Lincoln Center, and he escorted her to his trailer.The photos, Mr. Lubin explained, were for a Japanese paint-on tattoo company. First, he had her lie on a bed in a bathing suit and pretend to be sleeping. Then he showed her photos of her favorite actor, Ashton Kutcher, and told her to imagine getting ready for a date with him and to think about how excited she would feel.“I felt overwhelmingly sad, not excited,” Ms. Dunne recalled.Mr. Lubin told her to take off her underwear. She declined, saying she was uncomfortable.He directed her to change into a thong, spread her legs and hold a paintbrush up to her genital area. The tattoo company, he explained, would superimpose an image of a tattoo on her inner leg.To get the best angle and show the most skin, she needed to pull her underpants to the side, Mr. Lubin said.Ms. Dunne complied.Mr. Lubin paid her $100 in cash and warned her not to tell the circus, because they would be angry that he was doing outside work in their trailer.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Lubin scheduled a second photo session. The night before it, Ms. Dunne said she vomited. She told him she could not make it. He insisted, saying that his clients would be mad if he did not send the second round of photos on time.Ms. Dunne returned to the trailer. Mr. Lubin told her the first round of photos had gone over well. “They told me that you’re one of the sexiest girls they’ve ever seen,” he told her. Ms. Dunne posed again, and was paid another $100.Ms. Dunne’s father, Tom Phillips, said that after the photo sessions, “She had a haunted look in her face that I still remember.” But she told her parents that everything was fine.AdvertisementThen that chapter was over, and Ms. Dunne said it was as if it had never happened. Mr. Lubin made good on his offer to get her freelance work dancing and tumbling through the air on long silk streamers for Big Apple’s “Circus to Go.” She performed with them several times, she said.Years went by. Grandma continued to delight children and grown-ups alike, eating popcorn off people’s heads and squirting himself with a malfunctioning hose. He taught physical comedy to college students and was inducted into the Ring of Fame, one of the circus industry’s highest honors.But Ms. Dunne could not put the photo sessions behind her. She lost faith in herself.“He had given me these opportunities,” she said, “and after this happened, I started to feel that it wasn’t based on my merit, and how could I have been so stupid, and really the only thing he was interested in was me as a sexual object.”She quit the circus world and drifted for several years. “I just felt really confused and lost and ashamed,” she said.Around 2008, while in therapy, she told her parents about the photos, Mr. Phillips said.In 2011 or 2012, Ms. Dunne said, she went to the police in New York and they told her that the statute of limitations for pursuing any charges had expired. Federal child pornography law forbids sexually explicit depiction of someone younger than 18, and the definition of sexually explicit is broad. “A picture of a naked child may constitute illegal child pornography if it is sufficiently sexually suggestive,” the Department of Justice’s website says.Later in 2012, Ms. Dunne wrote to Big Apple officials that Mr. Lubin had done things to her that were “sexual in nature.” She asked to speak to him in the presence of a Big Apple representative. But Mr. Lubin, who joined the circus in 1982, had left.“Your allegations against Barry Lubin are indeed serious,” the circus’s executive director, Lynn Stirrup, wrote to Ms. Dunne. But Mr. Lubin was no longer an employee and the circus could not compel him to meet with her, she explained. Ms. Dunne let the matter drop.Ms. Stirrup, who left the circus in 2015, said Tuesday night that she did not remember Ms. Dunne’s 2012 email or her response. “I had no recollection of any of this, I’m sorry to say,” she said. “The circus was in complete crisis the entire time I was there. It was constant chaos.”AdvertisementMs. Stirrup said she did not contact the circus after she learned that Mr. Lubin was rehired, nor does it appear that any of the other recipients of the 2012 email did, either.Last week, when Ms. Dunne wrote to Big Apple again, action was swift. Ms. Dunne said that on Friday, within hours of the circus receiving her letter describing the photos, Dr. Kahanovitz wrote back that Mr. Lubin had been placed on leave.Mr. Lubin, in his statement, apologized directly to Ms. Dunne, using her maiden name, Phillips. “I know that what happened has had a lasting impact on her life, for which I am sorry,” he said. “I not only failed Ms. Phillips, but I also failed in my responsibility as a man, an adult, a father, and as a representative of the Big Apple Circus.”Ms. Dunne’s father, a retired journalist, recalled how shocked he was when she first told him of the photos.“I did not suspect Barry Lubin because he had the perfect cover,” he said. “He’s the friendly grandma, how could he harm you? It’s like Bill Cosby: He’s not the character he plays.”An earlier version of this article misstated where Zoey Dunne first met Barry Lubin. She met him while she was participating in Circus Smirkus’s touring youth troupe, not its camp in Vermont.Follow Andy Newman on Twitter: @andylocal.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Circus’s Esteemed Clown Resigns Over Allegation.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By STEPHEN CASTLEJAN. 23, 2018
TEESSIDE, England — As an aging train pulls into view, two men wait patiently in the biting cold, taking photos as the diesel-driven carriages grind slowly to a halt, before jumping quickly aboard.It is not a good idea to miss the 2:56 p.m. service to Darlington: The next train will call here in precisely one week.At England’s least popular railway station, here in Teesside, the only travelers these days are those attracted by the novelty and rarity of their journey, which lasts a maximum of 14 minutes.“The more obscure it is, the more interesting it is for rail enthusiasts,” said one of the men, Henry Kennedy, from Southampton. Along with Murray Colpman, he had traveled hundreds of miles by train, then walked for 45 minutes, to reach this obscure transportation outpost in northeastern England.AdvertisementIt was not meant to be like this.Teesside Airport rail station, about an hour’s drive north of Leeds, was built in 1971 along an existing line to bring thousands of passengers to and from a regional airport, now called Durham Tees Valley Airport, whose terminal building lies less than a mile away.AdvertisementThere is no longer a bus service from the rail station to the airport terminal, and the numbers flying from Durham Tees Valley are greatly reduced; it once attracted around 900,000 passengers a year, but now serves around 125,000, connecting to just a few destinations. So rail bosses have sidelined the stop for years, halting just two trains here a week, one in each direction.Then, in December, the service was cut again — to one train a week.Yet the various rail authorities cannot agree to close Teesside Airport rail, preferring to retain a zombie station that has come to symbolize some of the dysfunctions of Britain’s transport network.Under private ownership, a fragmented rail transport system has evolved in Britain, where a historic aversion to central planning sometimes comes at a price for passengers. British railways may have a good safety record, but the network is expensive and overcrowded, and opinion polls show that a majority of voters support rail nationalization.“This is a good example of the sort of disconnected nature of British transport policy,” said Stephen Joseph, the executive director of the Campaign for Better Transport, an advocacy group, referring to Teesside Airport. He contrasted Britain’s piecemeal approach with “other countries where rail, aviation and economic development are planned together at a national level.”Mr. Joseph also noted that when other little-used routes have been expanded with increased train frequencies, commuters have responded. “When you do put on a decent service, they tend to get used,” he said.Hidden away at the back of the airfield, Teesside Airport station is not even easy to find, and the facilities are minimal — two platforms, linked by a footbridge supported by scaffolding; a shelter; and a pay phone, a relic of the era when this station was used regularly. When the airport changed its name, the signs at the rail station were not even updated.For the few locals who know of its existence, this ghost station has become a “laughingstock,” in the words of one transport campaigner, Suzanne Foster, who for three years, has run a Facebook page, “SAVE Teesside Airport.” Alex Nelson, the station master of nearby Chester-le-Street station, calls the situation “perfectly absurd.”AdvertisementIronically, it was this part of the world that pioneered rail transportation. Along tracks not far from here ran the first railway to operate freight and passenger service with steam traction. On that journey, from Stockton to Darlington in September 1825, the train was initially preceded by a man on horseback who carried a flag reading Periculum privatum utilitas publica (“The private danger is the public good”).But even in the land where rail travel was born, closing a station can be a complex, sometimes costly process. And in Britain a plethora of bodies are involved — including in this case the train franchise operator, Northern Rail; Network Rail, which is responsible for the track; the airport; and Rail North, which brings together local transport authorities across the north of England.Keeping a skeleton operation — or “parliamentary service” in the jargon that refers to legislators’ role in deciding on closings — keeps things simple, if surreal.Behind this particular impasse lies a fight over the future of Durham Tees Valley Airport, which has suffered declining fortunes recently even though its runway is large enough to accommodate big planes, including Air Force One during a 2003 visit by President George W. Bush.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The airport is responsible for the rail station’s maintenance under an agreement made when its majority owner, Peel Airports, took over operations in 2003.When the airport said last month that instead of operating two services a week, there would be only one from Teesside Airport, it blamed the aging infrastructure, including the footbridge, and argued that the cost of maintaining it “could be as high as six million pounds over the next five years” — a figure disputed by Ms. Foster, the campaigner.Ben Houchen, the mayor of Tees Valley, which covers five boroughs, wants a revamp of the airport and its rail link. He said that Peel Airports had wanted to close Teesside Airport rail halt, but that he had objected.“If you now decided to close the rail station at the airport, it would be significantly more difficult again to reopen it,” Mr. Houchen said, adding that “there are airports, regional airports especially, that would die for the connectivity that Teesside Airport has got, actually having a station.”Mr. Houchen wants to create a consortium to take over the airport, and fears that Peel’s “ultimate long-term goal is to close the airport and turn it into a housing estate,” because that would turn an easier profit.AdvertisementPeel said that it had discussed closing the rail station, but that it had also considered moving it to a new site closer to the terminal. It rejected the claim that it wanted to run down the airport and sell it off for housing.In a statement, the airport said that, “as our chairman has stated previously, we are not looking to sell the airport and remain committed to delivering our business plan to secure its future and deliver growth.”That plan involved “a range of developments on land not required to aviation operations,” including some housing, though “the proceeds of the residential development will all be reinvested into airport operations,” the statement added.As the fate of the airport remains unclear, its rail station stays on life-support, though it seems to be getting some attention, although for the wrong reasons.Onboard the 2:56 on a recent Sunday, the conductor, Sally Holtham, said that in five years of doing her job, she had worked on only three services that stopped at this station.“It’s the first time I’ve sold any tickets from Teesside Airport,” she said before asking, with a long laugh, a deliberately pointless question: “Would you like a single or a return ticket?”An earlier version of this article misidentified a railway stop near Teesside Airport train station. It is Chester-le-Street, not Chester-le-Track.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Zombie Station Lacks Trains but Attracts Enthusiasts.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Jonathan WolfeGood morning on this tempestuous Tuesday.Here’s a nice thought on this rainy day: It’s a new year and your vacation days have been replenished.If you can’t tour distilleries in Scotland, hike the Route of Parks in Chile or visit one of our other 52 places to go this year, why not hop on a ferry and explore New York?As part of our series highlighting what to eat, drink, see and do in neighborhoods near the new NYC Ferry landings, we spent a few days in Sunset Park.When you disembark at the Brooklyn Army Terminal, you’ll want to push past the neighborhood’s industrial waterfront to explore its vibrant inland Latin community, tranquil green spaces and Brooklyn’s largest Chinatown.What to see.  Green-Wood Cemetery. Spending an afternoon at this 478-acre graveyard that borders Sunset Park feels anything but macabre. Even during the cooler months you can tour its Civil War history by trolley, visit the graves of some of its more famous residents like Jean-Michel Basquiat, Leonard Bernstein and William (Boss) Tweed, or look for native woodpeckers and sparrows and the not-so-native monk parakeets. Legend has it that the bright green parakeets colonized the cemetery in the 1960s after a shipping crate full of them smashed at Kennedy Airport, but pet owners are more likely the culprits.What to eat. Tacos. Let’s be honest: It’s hard to find a good taco in New York. Our saving grace is Sunset Park. Here the best tacos are simple: warm tortillas stuffed with braised or grilled meat and finished with minced raw onion and fresh cilantro. At Tacos el Bronco, try the tacos campechanos, tender flank steak with crispy fried chorizo, and the tacos al pastor made with spiced beef and sweet roasted pineapple. If you’re feeling adventurous, try the seasoned beef tongue tacos at nearby Tacos Matamoros.What to drink. Vietnamese coffee. After strolling past the vegetable sellers, Chinese banquet halls and toy stores on Eighth Avenue, stop into Ba Xuyen for a strong cup of Vietnamese coffee. The secret to this dessert-like drink is a few generous spoonfuls of condensed milk, or at nearby Thanh Da II, a touch of cream.What to do. Explore Industry City. The converted warehouses of this 30-acre industrial park now house outlets, studio spaces, outdoor play areas and a large food hall. During the winter, it’s home to Brooklyn Flea and Smorgasburg, the popular food vendor market. While you’re there, try local craft vodka on a tour of the Industry City Distillery, or learn how to make Japanese street food or French pastries at a cooking class at the Brooklyn Kitchen.How to get there: Take the Rockaway or South Brooklyn ferry routes. Travel time from Wall Street/Pier 11 is about 15 to 30 minutes, depending on the route.Looking for more vacation ideas for the year ahead? The New York Times Travel Show brings three days of travel ideas, globe-trotting tips and advice from travel experts to the Javits Center in Midtown this Friday through Sunday.Here’s what else is happening:We hope you haven’t lost your umbrella: We’re expecting showers — and possibly a thunderstorm — today.It’s going to be windy, too, so the rain may come at you sideways. The high, at least, is 57.The sun should come out tomorrow.• The New Jersey town of Leonia has banned all nonresident traffic routed during rush hours into its neighborhood via traffic navigation apps like Waze and Google Maps. [New York Times]• Cyrus R. Vance Jr., Manhattan’s district attorney, will no longer accept contributions from lawyers with pending cases, after facing criticism for not prosecuting celebrity clients. [New York Times]• Joon H. Kim, who replaced Preet Bharara, reflects on his short but busy tenure as the United States attorney in Manhattan. [New York Times]• A judge will decide if the police legally stopped a suspect in a murder case and whether the evidence should be used in the trial. [New York Times]•  Councilman Jumaane Williams, a Democrat, is testing the waters for a run for lieutenant governor, despite opposition from members of his own party. [New York Times]• Lower Manhattan residents oppose a plan to build glass elevators to provide subway access to the disabled, arguing that they could become a terror target. [New York Times]• The Health Department launched the NYC HelpMeQuit app, a free tool to help New Yorkers quit smoking. [BK Reader]• New York City is suing a landlord who it says turned rent-stabilized apartments into illegal hotels via Airbnb and other platforms. [Metro]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Hair Tip on the No. 7”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• An evening of classical music at the Miller Theater at Columbia University. 6 p.m. [Free]• The poet Kevin Young and Rebecca Carroll, a critic at large for The Los Angeles Times, talk about the rise of hoaxes, post-facts and fake news at the New York Public Library Stephen A. Schwarzman Building in Midtown Manhattan. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• Bring a blanket to a screening of “Wonder Woman” under the palm trees inside Brookfield Place in Lower Manhattan. 7 p.m. [Free]• Watch 80 one-minute plays at the Indie Theater One Minute Play Festival at the New Ohio Theater in Greenwich Village. 8 p.m. [$20]• Devils at Bruins, 7 p.m. (MSG). Nets at Thunder, 8 p.m. (YES). Rangers at Ducks, 10 p.m. (MSG+). Knicks at Warriors, 10:30 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.Yesterday we told you about the new protected crosstown bike lanes that will be installed in Midtown this year.We asked our readers for their opinions on bike lanes, which were installed after an increase in fatalities last year. Here’s what a few had to say.“I strongly believe that we already have too many bike lanes. I have never seen more than two bikes in a bike lane. Frequently they are empty. I find many bicycles running red lights, on sidewalks and going in the wrong direction. In addition, I feel like the bike lanes are ageist. Bicycles are used exclusively by younger people, not seniors and definitely not the disabled.”— Helene Polonsky, 65, Murray Hill“People tend to complain about cyclist behavior, but it’s important to point out that nearly all of the cyclists who were killed in 2017 were obeying the law when they died. A crosstown bike lane might have saved Dan Hanegby, who was killed by a bus driver who allegedly passed him too closely. I’m thankful that the Department of Transportation is finally solving the problem of safe crosstown travel for New Yorkers on bikes.”— Doug Gordon, 44, Park Slope, Brooklyn“I live on the street with the proposed protected bike lanes. Although I’m an avid Citi Biker and pro-safety, I know that the extra width on my block is super critical to allow fire trucks to pass traffic when they get called out. I’m not looking forward to the blasting horns I will now hear because there is no ‘passing lane.’”— Allison Robin, 35, Murray Hill“If people are really complaining about the loss of a few parking spaces, one might ask why that is an efficient use of public space. About 25 percent of Manhattan households own cars. Why does the city provide public space, free of charge, for storage of private property that is, for most people, a discretionary expenditure?”— Jeremy M. Posner, 42, Upper East SideNew York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.AdvertisementBy MEHER AHMADJAN. 23, 2018
KARACHI, Pakistan — A top Karachi police commander known for harsh tactics has been forced out after what he called a shootout with the Taliban ended in the death of an aspiring model popular on social media, triggering days of protests.The commander, former Senior Superintendent Rao Anwar, had long been prominent in the fight against militancy in the northern neighborhoods of Karachi he oversaw. Those areas were once notorious for being practically run by the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups, who inflicted heavy tolls on the security forces until 2015.Campaigns by the superintendent’s forces, along with paramilitary groups like the Sindh Rangers, began turning the balance of power around. But the effort was haunted by accusations of extrajudicial killings, as it began looking as much like an indiscriminate crackdown on ethnic Pashtun communities as a targeted campaign against the militants who sheltered among them. The commander’s methods, in particular, began coming under intense criticism.An episode this month may end up being the final straw. On Jan. 13, Superintendent Anwar released a statement claiming that he and his officers had thwarted a deadly attack on Karachi’s airport, killing four unidentified militants who he said had a history of killing “police, Rangers and army personnel.”AdvertisementThree days later, the family of Naqeebullah Mehsud, a 27-year-old shopkeeper with dreams of becoming a model, received his bullet-riddled body from the authorities, along with the news that he had been among the supposed militants shot by the police.AdvertisementMr. Mehsud and his family are part of a community of hundreds of thousands of Pashtuns who used to live in the tribal areas of Pakistan and were displaced to Karachi over years of violence with the Taliban and other militant groups that dominated some of those places.Mr. Mehsud’s relatives insist that he has never had militant ties and was targeted just because he was Pashtun. “We’re still in shock about what happened,” said Manzoor Ahmed, a family friend and social activist. “His entire family is trying to understand why this happened to Naqeebullah.”An internal police investigation into the supposed Taliban shootout supports the family’s side of events, finding the superintendent’s account of the clash “doubtful” and uncovering no apparent links between Mr. Mehsud and any militant group.What he did have, however, was a Facebook page with a large following, fans of the glamorous photos he posted as he tried to develop a modeling career. When news of Mr. Mehsud’s death was posted there, it spread quickly.Outraged fans and activists rejected the characterization of Mr. Mehsud as a militant, claiming his innocence with posts under #JusticeforNaqeeb. Protesters took to the streets of Karachi in the days after, demanding that the commander be removed.Superintendent Anwar’s crusading style and triumphant announcements of terrorists killed or arrested had made him a regular on Karachi television over the years. But for just as long, his name and claims had become bywords for suspicious police encounters. Though he has been suspended several times since joining the force in 1984, nothing has ever stuck, and he has inevitably resumed his post after a few days or weeks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This time seems different. The superintendent was dismissed outright on Saturday. And after he failed to appear for a mandatory interview before the National Commission for Human Rights on Monday, the local police said they were preparing to issue an arrest warrant if he skips another session.On Tuesday, the former superintendent was turned away by immigration officers at Rawalpindi’s international airport — roughly 900 miles north of Karachi — when he tried to take a flight to Dubai, officials said. In a long statement he released by WhatsApp afterward, Mr. Anwar appeared to put the blame for Mr. Mehsud’s death on Pakistan’s weak judicial system, in effect saying that he did what he had to do.Advertisement“Karachi, don’t forget the blasts. Karachi, don’t forget the target killings,” he wrote. “If you take that into consideration, then you know that some of the work that should have been done by judges was done by officers like Rao Anwar.”Mr. Anwar may be the biggest focus of criticism right now, but concerns about the security’s forces methods are far from uncommon. A 2016 Human Rights Watch report found several police officers “openly admitted to the practice of false or faked ‘encounter killings,’ in which the police stage an armed exchange to kill an individual already in custody.” By the Karachi police’s own estimation, “184 criminals and 73 terrorists” were killed in roughly 480 police encounters in 2017 alone.“This isn’t a recent phenomenon,” said Amir Rana, director of the Pak Institute for Peace Studies, an independent think tank based in Islamabad. Mr. Rana said it had been difficult to get successful convictions of militants through the courts, leaving the police and other security forces more likely to simply shoot to kill. “The easiest solution to that problem for agencies is extrajudicial killings,” he said.Though many law enforcement agencies in Karachi stand accused of similar tactics to Mr. Anwar’s, they appear to be responding to public outrage by closing ranks against him.“This is an opportunity to deter extrajudicial and unjust killings, and for law enforcement to correct itself,” said the head of Karachi’s counterterrorism department, Sanaullah Abbasi. “It’s an opportunity to give justice to the people.”Earlier versions of this article incorrectly listed the number of terrorism suspects reported to have been killed by the Karachi police in 2017. The police said that 73 had been killed, not 7,373.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Pakistani Police Commander Is Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Farhad Manjoo
 

STATE OF THE ART
JAN. 12, 2018
Imagine you’re a cookie mogul. You figured out a way to make lots of money by giving away delicious cookies for free, and in less than a decade, you created a global cookie behemoth.But recently your cookie kingdom has begun to crumble. Scientists are worried that people are eating so many of your cookies that they’re making themselves sick — yet they keep eating more, because who can say no to free cookies? There are concerns that your cookies are crowding out the market for normal food; after your success, fruit and vegetable companies have pivoted to free cookies, and now much of the global food supply is just cookies. Rising cookie addiction might even have helped a foreign government influence your country’s election.So you decide to do something. You convene your best bakers, and you tell them, look, from now on, we don’t just care about how many free cookies we can shove into people’s gullets. We want to take a holistic look at the overall cookie experience. We want people to eat some cookies, sure, but we don’t want them to eat too many, so we will have to make our free cookies less addictive and more “meaningful.” Let’s maybe put carrots and kale and broccoli in the cookies.What sort of cookie company wants people to eat fewer cookies?One named Facebook, apparently.On Thursday, Mark Zuckerberg announced that as part of his effort to turn the social network into a force for good, the company would make a significant change to its News Feed. The feed — the list of status updates the app displays on its primary screen — will prioritize posts that elicit what Facebook calls “meaningful” interactions with friends and family, and will downgrade things like links to articles and videos, which it says encourages you to passively scroll through the News Feed.AdvertisementThe effort sounds helpful, even noble, given that Mr. Zuckerberg acknowledged the change could be bad for business in the short run. But if you think about Facebook’s primary service as free cookies rather than social networking, the underlying difficulties with the plan become obvious, and even existential.Do people really want a more “meaningful” Facebook any more than they want healthy cookies? Didn’t we get hooked on Facebook for its easy outrages in the first place — for the sugar, not for the broccoli? And if Facebook’s underlying business model is based on how much time we all spend eating there, can the company ever truly resist the pressure to keep plying us with more cookies?AdvertisementThese questions don’t mean that Mr. Zuckerberg’s new plan will fail. But if he really does want to make the time we spend on Facebook count as “time well spent,” I suspect Facebook will have to change much more radically than it is now letting on. It can’t just become a slightly healthier cookie company; it may have to get out of the sugar business altogether. And what, then, happens to all those billions in future profits? (On Friday, the stock market seemed to harbor the same worry; Facebook’s stock fell 4.5 percent.)Mr. Zuckerberg says his concerns are raised by research showing that some uses of social networking make people feel bad about themselves. As two of Facebook’s researchers described in a recent blog post, mindlessly reading the News Feed without interacting much — just scrolling and pressing Like occasionally — was associated with lower mental well-being.But a study that Facebook’s scientists conducted with outside researchers found that deeper sharing on the network — “sharing messages, posts and comments with close friends and reminiscing about past interactions,” per the blog post — improves a person’s well-being. It’s this sort of activity that Facebook is trying to encourage with the new design. Think of it as the kale cookie of Facebook.Facebook is conceding that when the good kind of social networking is given priority over the bad kind, people are likely to spend less time on the service. What’s unclear is how much less time. According to data collected by Nielsen and crunched by Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research Group, American adults spent about 37 minutes a day on Facebook in September. What if it turns out that if we’re going to spend only worthwhile time on Facebook, we need only 10 or 15 minutes there a day?It’s likely that Facebook has a very good idea of how its changes will affect engagement; the company is obsessive about running experiments and modeling its changes using data, and it probably would not have pushed this change if the numbers were catastrophic.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But its modeling is most likely only a guide to the short term. What Facebook can’t predict is how the outside world might react — how users, advertisers, investors and competitors will alter their behavior in the face of a less immediately engaging News Feed.AdvertisementMr. Zuckerberg is a famously fierce and ruthless competitor. If it looks like Facebook’s business is starting to suffer because of the healthier News Feed, and if some competitor comes along to offer us all the free cookies that Facebook is denying us, I doubt Mr. Zuckerberg will be able to stick to his guns.There is a story that veterans at Facebook like to tell to illustrate the power of the News Feed. When Facebook first unveiled the feed back in 2006, many users hated it. They thought a running list of people’s status updates was a kind of invasion of privacy — before, updates were hidden on people’s walls — and lots of people mobilized against it.People started creating Facebook groups promising to boycott Facebook, and within days those groups quickly grew to hundreds of thousands of members — the biggest groups that had ever formed on Facebook. Which, oddly, backfired. To the News Feed’s creators, the protests only served to prove the News Feed’s utility; it was only thanks to the viral power of the News Feed that people were able to mobilize against News Feed.All these years later, the story also suggests how hard it will be to alter the purpose of the feed. The News Feed’s killer app has always been easy, viral outrage. It’s always been just clicking Like on something you’re kinda, sorta passionate about, then forgetting about it.It’s always been cookies, not broccoli. It’s hard to see how that changes now.Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo.A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: A ‘Meaningful’ News Feed ….  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MARTIN SELSOE SORENSENJAN. 15, 2018
COPENHAGEN — About 1,000 adults and adolescents may face prosecution for sharing online video of two 15-year-olds having sex, and more people may be charged for spreading the images, the Danish National Police said Monday.Consensual sex between 15-year-olds is legal in Denmark, but anyone who forwarded the video violated the law against distributing child pornography, the police explained. The two video clips — one 50 seconds long, the other 9 seconds — were shared through Facebook’s Messenger app.The case prompted outrage when it was first reported last year, because the video appeared to show the girl being abused, penetrated with foreign objects. The girl has said that she consented to sex, but not to the abuse or to the recording.The police notified 1,004 people on Monday that they faced preliminary charges, which the police can issue on their own; prosecutors will decide whether to proceed with charges and take the cases to trial. Investigators are looking into whether the video was distributed on platforms other than Facebook.Advertisement“It may sound very dramatic that we’re charging with child pornography,” said Flemming Kjaerside, a police superintendent. “Many had no intention to distribute child pornography, but objectively speaking, that’s what they’ve done.”AdvertisementWith the ubiquity of phone cameras, cases like this one have become a recurring phenomenon around the world, testing accepted legal standards. In some instances, including a highly publicized case in North Carolina, minors have faced criminal charges for sending explicit pictures of themselves. In others, like a Colorado case involving more than 100 high school students, the authorities have declined to bring any charges.Those found guilty in the Danish case are unlikely to go to prison, but the convictions will remain on their records for 10 years, barring them from becoming police officers and from taking certain jobs working with children. Some have already confessed, Mr. Kjaerside said, as the police across the country contacted the accused and their parents, and conducted the first rounds of questioning.It is not clear whether all of the people charged knew that the boy and girl in the videos were under 18, the minimum age for legally distributed pornography. If they convince a judge that they had no way of knowing, the child pornography charges could be dropped, but they could still be charged with distributing the material without the consent of the couple in the images.All but eight of the accused are under 25 years old, and four-fifths of them are male. A few 14-year-olds who also shared the video are not being prosecuted, the police said.Mira Bech, 19, who received notice to contact the police for questioning, admitted seeing and storing the video, but she denied sharing it. She said she knew others who also had the video but had not been charged.“This will ruin my life,” she told TV2, a national television station. “It’s the world’s most ridiculous case. I couldn’t tell that the people in the video were under 18.”Mr. Kjaerside, the police superintendent, said that charges were leveled only against those who had shared the video.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The case came to light in the fall of 2017, after Facebook alerted the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in the United States, and that group contacted American and international authorities. Danish police spent months identifying the social media users, their IP addresses, phone numbers and names.AdvertisementThe recordings were made at a party by friends of the couple, who were the first to share them online. Two of them were fined last year for their part in the distribution.The girl in the video later told Information, a Danish newspaper, that one of the people responsible tried to use the recordings to blackmail her. She said she received a message saying: “I have a video of you. If you don’t send me a nude photo, I’ll share it with all of my friends.”“I tried to forget that evening,” she said. “I knew that it was filmed, but I didn’t realize they would think of passing the videos on to others.”Kuno Sorensen, a psychologist with Save the Children Denmark, said, “Youngsters are afraid of reporting these cases to the police,” and they are embarrassed to discuss them with their parents or other authority figures.“A lot of the charged are under 18 years,” he said. “It’s sad that they become hostages in this, but at the same time they’ve committed a crime with a heavy impact on the victims.”For years, Danes have discussed the issue of sexual images shared without consent, so it is hard to believe that the people who spread the video were ignorant of the consequences, said Emma Holten, who is known for her campaign against cyberbullying.“Four years ago, I would have felt sorry for them,” she said. “Back then you could have argued that they were not aware of that it was illegal, but today they know.”Rather than tell children not to take explicit images, she said, adults should tell them not to bully or humiliate others, just as they do in school or on playgrounds.“Telling them to not take photos is like trying to forbid them to have sex,” she said. “That’s been tried for 10,000 years and it didn’t work.”A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Danish Police Charge 1,000 in Child Porn Case.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 17, 2018
Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching:• How Apple plans to capitalize on the new tax plan• Could antitrust law fell the tech giants?•Bank of America reported $2.4 billion in fourth-quarter profit, as well as a $2.9 billion charge tied to the new tax law. • Goldman Sachs reported a $1.9 billion loss, and a $4.4 billion tax charge. Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.Write the NYT’s Brian X. Chen and Daisuke Wakabayashi:Less than four weeks after President Trump signed the most consequential tax legislation in three decades, the world’s most valuable public company — Apple — laid out how it planned to capitalize on the new rules.The iPhone maker said it plans to make a $350 billion contribution to the American economy over the next five years. Some of its new investments will come from bringing back the vast majority of the $252 billion in cash that it has long held abroad.Under the new tax law, foreign earnings sitting offshore would be considered to be automatically repatriated and taxed at reduced rates.AdvertisementThe tech giant said it will pay $38 billion in taxes to repatriate its overseas cash because of the new law.AdvertisementHere’s what Apple plans to do:• Invest about $30 billion in capital expenditures in the United States over the next five years. • Create more than 20,000 new jobs in the United States, a 24 percent increase from the roughly 84,000 employees in the country currently.• Issue stock-based bonuses worth $2,500 to employees, according to Bloomberg.That’s the provocative question posed by Greg Ip of the WSJ. And it reflects governments’ growing wariness toward the tech industry.Google, Amazon and Facebook aren’t like the Standard Oil or AT&T of old, gouging consumers on price. (Indeed, many of their services are free.) But if the question is “Are consumers better off?” then could there be an opening for regulatory action?More from Mr. Ip:If market dominance means fewer competitors and less innovation, consumers will be worse off than if those companies had been restrained. “The impact on innovation can be the most important competitive effect” in an antitrust case, says Fiona Scott Morton, a Yale University economist who served in the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division under Barack Obama.Where tech has support: In its efforts to keep net neutrality regulations, with a lawsuit against the F.C.C. by 22 state attorneys general and a bill by Senate Democrats to undo the repeal using the Congressional Review Act.Goldman once seemed invincible. Its trading business was a profit machine.This morning it posted a quarterly loss in part because of the poor performance in its trading unit.The numbers:• $1.9 billion. Goldman’s fourth-quarter loss.• $4.4 billion. The charge Goldman took related to the new tax law, which wiped out nearly half of Goldman's earnings for the year, according to the WSJ.• $5.68. The Wall Street firm’s profit per share excluding the tax-related charge, beating the consensus estimate of $4.90 from Wall Street analysts.Advertisement•$7.8 billion. Goldman’s revenue for the quarter, down 4 percent. Goldman is the only big bank to report a decline in revenue so far.• $2.37 billion. Goldman’s trading revenue for the fourth quarter, down 34 percent from a year ago. That was the steepest decline of any of banks reporting so far. Citigroup, JPMorgan and Bank of America have reported declines in trading revenue of 19 percent, 17 percent and 9 percent.• $1 billion. Goldman’s revenue from buying and selling bonds, commodities and currencies, half of what it generated a year ago. To put that in perspective: Goldman’s fixed-income division at its peak churned out nearly a billion dollars every two weeks.Federal prosecutors in Manhattan unsealed an indictment charging Nicolas De-Meyer, 40, with stealing $1.2 million worth of rare wine from a former employer. The former employer in question was Mr. Solomon, who employed Mr. De-Meyer as a personal assistant, according to two sources familiar with the matter.According to the indictment, the wine was stolen from around October 2014 to around October 2016, when Mr. De-Meyer had been asked to transport it from his former employer’s Manhattan apartment to his wine cellar in East Hampton, N.Y.Mr. De-Meyer was arrested in Los Angeles on Tuesday, according to a spokesman for the Los Angeles federal prosecutor’s office. He could not immediately be reached for comment.“The theft was discovered in the fall of 2016 and reported to law enforcement at that time,” a Goldman spokesman said.Bank of America reported $2.4 billion in fourth-quarter profit, after taking a $2.9 billion charge tied to the new tax law.AdvertisementThe numbers:• $5.3 billion, or 47 cents a share. BofA’s profit in the fourth quarter excluding the tax-related charge. Analysts had expected the bank to report earnings of 44 cents per share.• $21.1 billion. BofA’s earnings for 2017, excluding the tax-related charge. That matches its biggest annual profit since 2006.•$20.4 billion. The bank’s revenue for the fourth quarter, up from $19.99 billion a year ago.•$2.66 billion. BofA’s fourth-quarter trading revenue, down about 9 percent from a year ago.• $11.46 billion. The bank’s net-interest income, up 11 percent.Let’s recount the hits that U.S. banks took from the tax overhaul:• Citigroup: $22 billion• JPMorgan Chase: $2.4 billion• Goldman Sachs: $4.4 billionWe’ll ignore Wells Fargo for now (it gained). The bigger point is that, thanks to lower corporate rates and preferential treatment for pass-through entities, financial institutions are some of the new code’s biggest winners.More from Jim Tankersley of the NYT:“The good news is that tax reform has produced both current and future benefits for our shareholders,” PNC’s president and chief executive, Bill Demchak, told analysts on Friday. He said the bank’s preference would be to divert the tax savings “toward dividend” — which is to say, to return a higher dividend to shareholders.The conglomerate itself isn’t planning on going that far just yet.Here’s John Flannery, its chief, on a conference call yesterday:“We are looking aggressively at the best structure or structures for our portfolio to maximize the potential of our businesses. Our results, over the past several years, including 2017 and the insurance charge, only further my belief that we need to continue to move with purpose to reshape G.E.”The contextMr. Flannery didn’t say anything out of line with his past remarks. It’s just that he said it as G.E. announced an unrelated $6.2 billion charge connected to its legacy insurance portfolio.Other conglomerates, from Honeywell to United Technologies to Tyco, have explored restructuring to varying degrees, as Wall Street analysts question the viability of the model.G.E. and its advisers are still thinking about how to reshape the 125-year-old group, whose complexity may mask yet more problems. The company promises an update in spring, and is unlikely to announce something that only fiddles around the edges. But don’t expect plans for it to become three or four fully separate companies.AdvertisementCritics demand more boldness• Lex writes, “Once a paragon of management acumen, it is now a rolling train wreck of unexpected and expensive blunders.” (FT)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Brook Sutherland writes, “The reasons for keeping G.E. together — shared resources and technology — look increasingly tenuous.” (Gadfly)• Justin Lahart and Spencer Jakab write, “The problem is that G.E.’s parts might be worth a lot less than even the company’s sharply diminished value today.” (Heard on the Street)The deadline: 12:01 a.m. Eastern on SaturdayThe issues• Immigration, of course: President Trump still insists on funding for a border wall and Democrats are fuming over his comments on African countries.• Republicans are weighing whether to use funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program as a carrot — or stick — for Democrats to join a stopgap funding measure.The state of playRed-state Democrats are uneasy about allowing a shutdown in an election year. Some Republicans are irked by a stream of temporary funding resolutions, rather than a full agreement that would permit more military spending.House Speaker Paul Ryan’s proposal for a continuing resolution — which includes delays to several health care taxes in addition to CHIP funding — has support among many, but not all, Republicans. It has little among House Democrats.The politics flyaround• Steve Bannon has been subpoenaed by both Robert Mueller and the House Intelligence Committee. (NYT)Advertisement• The C.F.P.B. will reconsider rules on high-interest payday loans, in a potential win for the industry. (WSJ)• N.Y. Governor Andrew Cuomo unveiled a state budget meant to counter the tax-code changes that hurt high-tax states: “Washington hit a button and launched an economic missile and it says ‘New York’ on it, and it’s headed our way.” (NYT)• Support for the new tax code has grown, according to a SurveyMonkey poll. (NYT)• G.M.’s chief, Mary Barra, urged Mr. Trump to be cautious about withdrawing from Nafta. (NYT)• How Michael Wolff got into the White House. (Bloomberg)The biggest thing about virtual currencies isn’t how much their prices rise (or fall). It’s the technology that makes them work, argues Steven Johnson in the NYT Magazine.More from Mr. Johnson:What Nakamoto ushered into the world was a way of agreeing on the contents of a database without anyone being “in charge” of the database, and a way of compensating people for helping make that database more valuable, without those people being on an official payroll or owning shares in a corporate entity.We’ll count him as a skeptic: Dick Kovacevich, the former Wells Fargo C.E.O., told CNBC that he thinks Bitcoin is “a pyramid scheme” that “makes no sense.”Beware cryptoheists: North Korea looks to be using the same malware found in the Sony Pictures hack and the Wannacry assault against digital currency investors.Virtual currency quote of the day, from Bloomberg:“I have a Zen philosophy that you just go with the flow,” said George Tasick, a part-time cryptocurrency trader in Hong Kong whose day job is making fireworks. “I’m not really changing my behavior in any way.”Issue one: Some potential buyers may want to pick up the troubled studio through the bankruptcy process, to cleanse it of legal liabilities.Issue two: Advocates for women who have brought allegations against Harvey Weinstein worry that could deny them justice.AdvertisementMore from Jonathan Randles and Peg Brickley of the WSJ:A Chapter 11 filing would halt lawsuits brought by women against the studio, forcing them to line up with low-ranking creditors to await their fate. Once the money from a sale comes in, bankruptcy law dictates who gets paid first — the banks that kept Weinstein Co. in business — and who gets paid last — women claiming that Weinstein Co. was part of Mr. Weinstein’s pattern of alleged sexual misconduct.But it’s complicated. A bankruptcy filing could provide legal structures for Mr. Weinstein’s accusers, like a judge’s supervision of sales and settlements.A suitor from the past: Among the bidders is the previous studio founded by the Weinstein brothers, Miramax, according to Bloomberg.What about RICO? DealBook’s White Collar Watch takes a look at using the racketeering law against Mr. Weinstein and his company:RICO lawsuits are tempting. They allow a plaintiff to sue a variety of defendants by claiming that they acted together and seek an award of triple damages, a bonanza in some business disputes that can run into millions of dollars. But these cases should also come with a bright red warning sign: Tread lightly or see your case thrown out of court before it even gets started.• Nestlé finally struck a deal to sell its U.S. confectionary business, with Ferrero paying $2.8 billion. Gadfly asks if Hershey should jump on the deal bandwagon. (NYT, Gadfly)• Qualcomm had a busy deal day yesterday. It made its case against Broadcom’s $105 billion hostile bid, as its own $38.5 billion offer for NXP Semiconductor was rejected by the money manager Ramius. (Qualcomm, Ramius)• Silver Lake put up a hefty $1.7 billion equity check as part of its $3.5 billion bid for Blackhawk Network. (NYT)• Celgene is in talks to buy Juno Therapeutics, maker of a cancer treatment, according to unidentified people. (WSJ)• Bill Miller, the value investor who beat the S. & P. 500 15 years running (and whose faith in banks was mocked in the movie “The Big Short”), has donated $75 million to the philosophy department of Johns Hopkins University. (NYT)• YouTube said it had altered the threshold at which videos could accept advertisements and pledged more oversight of top-tier videos. It’s said similar things before. (NYT)Advertisement• Amazon has advertised for an expert in health privacy regulations, suggesting it plans to work with outside partners that manage personal health information. (CNBC)• A federal judge indicated he would approve a $290 million settlement by Pershing Square Capital Management and Valeant Pharmaceuticals with Allergan shareholders who accused them of profiting improperly from a failed takeover bid. (WSJ)• Informa, which owns the shipping journal Lloyd’s List, is in talks to buy the exhibitions and events company UBM, creating a company worth more than 9 billion pounds, or about $12.4 billion. (FT)• The National Retail Federation’s annual trade show is starting to look more like CES. (NYT)• Joseph A. Rice, who fought a hostile takeover of the Irving Bank Corporation as its chairman and chief executive in the 1980s, died on Jan. 8 at 93. (NYT)• Greenlight Capital’s David Einhorn is betting on Twitter, saying revenue should grow after user-experience improvements. (Bloomberg)• Melrose Industries, which specializes in turning around manufacturers, has made a hostile public bid worth about $10 billion for GKN, a British maker of aerospace and automotive parts that could face trading issues as Brexit looms. (Bloomberg)Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Breakingviews By                     
ROBERT CYRAN

JAN. 9, 2018
GoPro’s genius discount grows larger. The wearable-camera maker styled itself a media company when it went public in 2014, but even its hardware business is suffering job cuts as sales fall short. Success is even harder than usual when — as at Snap, which fancied itself a camera company — the boss wastes time and resources chasing whims.The company’s portable cameras are popular among snowboarders, sky divers and mountain bikers, but its media partnerships and attempts to launch action shows never amounted to much. GoPro shut down those efforts in 2016. A bid to crack the drone market hasn’t fared any better. The firm now says it will exit that business, blaming competition and a hostile regulatory environment.While GoPro chased those dreams, competition in its core business of making portable cameras grew ever tougher. Asian rivals caught up on quality while cutting prices. And the emergence of waterproof smartphones with quality lenses and better editing software has caused some customers to wonder why they need a separate camera at all.It’s one thing to turn a good idea into a thriving business, as GoPro’s founder, Nick Woodman, did with small, rugged cameras for action sports. But one success hardly guarantees another, no matter how clever the vision. Snap, for example, has seen features like its disappearing messages, face filters and story format copied by Facebook. And the company’s camera glasses have proved to be a dud, prompting it to take a $40 million charge against inventory last quarter.Investors now attach a hefty discount to the idea that Mr. Woodman can produce a string of hit products. GoPro stock is down more than 90 percent from its peak. It doesn’t take a genius to see that knowing your limits can be more valuable than trying to defy them.Robert Cyran is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Compiled by NANCY WARTIKJAN. 20, 2018
Four alumni of The New York Times met Tuesday on Facebook Live to recount the dramatic events surrounding our 1971 publication of the Pentagon Papers, a watershed moment in the history of press freedom.The Washington Post’s publication of the Pentagon Papers returned to the national spotlight with the release last week of the feature film “The Post.” But The Times was the first to publish portions of the Papers, starting June 13, 1971. We published three articles over a period of two days before a federal court ordered us to stop. On July 1, 1971, we resumed publication after winning a landmark Supreme Court decision.Four retired staff members of The New York Times spoke with the newspaper's historian, David Dunlap, about what it was like to defy the Nixon administration and break the pivotal story.During Tuesday’s Facebook Live, the Times alumni described the secrecy surrounding their work on the Papers and their frustration with the public’s initial reaction to our publication. Here are some excerpts from their conversation, condensed and edited for clarity.David Dunlap: I’m David Dunlap, I’m a retired reporter at The New York Times and I have gathered today four very distinguished New York Times alumni who are also alumni of the Pentagon Papers. AdvertisementI’ve brought them together so that we can talk about what’s wrong and what’s right with the new Steven Spielberg movie “The Post,” but more importantly to tell the very dramatic story of how the Pentagon Papers were obtained, developed, produced, edited, curated, published against the threat of tremendous legal liability from the Nixon administration — a dramatic enough story in itself that would have made, we believe, for a very good movie called “The Times.”AdvertisementI’m going to ask them to introduce themselves in the order in which they first came into contact with the Pentagon Papers in the late spring of 1971. Allan Siegal?Allan Siegal: I’m Allan Siegal. I was, at the time, an assistant foreign editor. I was called upon to join the team that was gathering to edit the stories and texts.Linda Amster: My name is Linda Amster, I was the head of news research at The Times and I was brought in very early on in the preparation of the Pentagon Papers to make sure that all of the material we published was accurate. That was my main responsibility.Betsy Wade: My name is Betsy Wade, I came into the Pentagon Papers project a week before publication began, when Al Siegal asked me if I wanted to join Project X, and did I mind going to jail?James Goodale: My name is James Goodale. I first came in contact with the Pentagon Papers when I was at this fancy black-tie dinner in Washington, D.C., male only by the way, and [NYT Washington bureau chief] Max Frankel whispered into my ear, “Have you heard, we’ve got classified documents?” That was it. One sentence. But those documents turned into the Pentagon Papers. Dunlap: “The importance of the classified documents is critical to this discussion because what The Times had in its possession were 7,000 pages of documents that were a top-secret, classified history of American involvement in Vietnam, in Indochina, going back to the Truman administration, every page of which had been stamped “top secret,” “sensitive,” “classified.” Part of the mission of The Times was to present the history of the Vietnam War as it had been recorded under the orders of then-Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara who wanted to find out, how did we get into this mess?AdvertisementThe people who compiled the report had access to all kinds of cables, memos and notes, which betrayed — when you read them closely — that one administration after the next had engaged in exactly the kind of double-dealing that critics of the war had always maintained was going on. But here was the Pentagon saying it, in its own voice.Because of that, it was critical, as far as The Times saw it, to reproduce the documents themselves. Not simply interpret them or rely on them for narrative articles, but to actually expose the public to the words of the decision makers. And that meant that we were trading in classified information on a scale that perhaps had never been undertaken before.What kind of pause did that give any of you as you worked with this material? Amster: Well, I was among the first people to join the team and I knew nothing about it. It was very early on.When I was taken to the Hilton Hotel where the team was working on the papers — not in the headquarters of The Times but in the hotel — I was told that we had these papers and it was of course against the law to have these papers and it could even be treasonous to have these papers, and if I did not want to work on them, I was free not to work on them.And of course I wanted to work on them, but right off the bat it was clear that imprisonment was a possibility and I’m sure everybody else felt that way too. Goodale: Well, the documents caused me problems. I’m a lawyer.The Pentagon Papers were split into documents, and into regular text. The regular text, in fact, was based on New York Times articles, no problem. I warned everybody at the beginning that it’s going to be a lot more dangerous to publish the regular text, if you leave the documents out. And that ignited a huge argument within The Times in which the news people finally said, “If you don’t run the documents, you’re not going to run anything.”From a personal point of view, when I read the material to be published and I had a chance to read the documents that had been picked out, I remember reading one particularly from national security adviser and strong proponent of the war McGeorge Bundy that shocked me. And I said this has got to be published, the public has never seen anything like this. Go with the documents. Dunlap: I have a question from a viewer. … Yes, thank you for the question. A viewer wants to know: “Has the culture for whistle-blowers changed in the last half-century?”Advertisement Goodale:  If we take all of the whistle-blowing we’ve had in the last decades, I would say that Daniel Ellsberg, the military analyst who originally gave the Papers to The Times, set the gold standard for whistle-blowing. If you say that’s the best you can do, I think subsequent whistle-blowing has been more or less at his level. To answer the question: I don’t think it’s changed. It’s been very good. Dunlap: I might propose a distinction. And that is to make the point to viewers that The Times, very importantly, spent three months with these 7,000 pages of documents. And among our goals, it seems to me, besides presenting as cohesive a narrative as we could from these documents, was to ensure that military secrets that would compromise the identity of C.I.A. agents, for example, that would put into harm’s way any troops, that such material not be published. I think perhaps you could draw the distinction between the very careful in essence curation of a classified document against the dumps that we now see with WikiLeaks and other sources that just put the material out there, consequences be damned. Goodale: Well I think that there is something in what you say. But I think we have to be careful when we paint WikiLeaks with a big, bad brush because the first WikiLeaks leak that became notorious, was one that was curated.The New York Times got Wikileaks’s materials. It curated them. It didn’t publish all of them. There were other papers, The Guardian included, that did the same thing. And then after they had done what they had done, WikiLeaks changed what it was going to deliver to the public and curated itself.I would admit, however, as we look at what’s taken place thereafter, WikiLeaks has been more of a “dump” than it was before. But you have to be careful how you describe that. Dunlap: Now, in a discussion that all of us had just before the Facebook session, several of us spoke of a marvelous affidavit that was filed in the Pentagon Papers case by Max Frankel, who was then the Washington bureau chief, in which he described in some detail the way in which reporters and government officials routinely traded in classified information. It was absolutely the coin of the realm. The only problem that government officials seem to have with classified information is when it doesn’t paint them in the light they’d like to be painted in. Otherwise they trade in it with impunity, it seems.Advertisement Goodale: Can I comment on Max Frankel’s affidavit? Max Frankel wrote an affidavit in which he described how information is traded, even though it’s classified. And the ultimate conclusion of that statement is that classification in the real world means zero.You might be interested in the history of that affidavit. Max had a lawyer assigned to him — we had five lawyers in the case; I was running the case, and we signed different parts of it — and he didn’t like the lawyer, who was a perfectly capable, competent lawyer.And Max would say what you just implied in your statement, to this lawyer. And the lawyer would say, “It can’t be! It can’t be that people really don’t pay attention to the classification stamp!” Argument, back and forth, back and forth. It was very important to turn that lawyer. Because if a lawyer didn’t turn around and reflect our point of view, it was going to come through in what he said.And Max finally threw up his hands. He said, “I’ll write an affidavit.” So he wrote this affidavit, in which he describes how this works in the real world. All the stuff that’s traded back and forth is classified because everything’s classified. “When everything’s classified” — I’m quoting the Supreme Court — ”nothing is classified.” Wade: When I was being indoctrinated on the foreign desk, Al Siegal said, “You know what “classified” means? Classified means you put them in some kind of order, any kind of order, alphabetical, numerical.” [Laughter] He said, “top secret, now we’re talking about something.” And for many years, the foreign desk did not use classified to mean “secret” or “not to be distributed.” It had to be further modified. Am I not correct, boss? Siegal: I don’t remember, to be perfectly honest. But I do know that we were careful not to wave the red flag of “classified” around in the paper. Because the feeling was that stories that you could write with perfect impunity would suddenly become controversial within the government if you rubbed their nose in the fact that you were flouting classification. Dunlap: Some other questions have come in. Facebook viewer Jauhn Asfar Awraghr: How did you work with so many documents? Nowadays we have USB keys or laptops but how did you do that, then? Were you driving a minivan with all the files? Wade: We were carrying shopping bags through Times Square, between The New York Times and the Hilton Hotel, among other things, trying to appear as innocent as possible. Some of them were grocery carts.Advertisement Siegal: And using more people than we would have had to use nowadays. Dunlap: And it was also the case that basically an independent and secret newsroom was established in the New York Hilton Hotel, a place so anonymous that as Mr. Siegal has observed on more than one occasion:  Siegal: You could lead a camel through the lobby of that hotel on a tether, and nobody would take note. Dunlap: And so it appeared that for all of our weeks there, with dozens and dozens and dozens of staff members, with filing cabinets and typewriters, our presence was not detected.Facebook viewer David W. Jones: When preparing the publication of the Pentagon Papers, was there much discussion on how the public was expected to react? Wade: The beginning was a terrible disappointment to us. Nobody leaped up and said, “They stole those things! These are stolen documents!” Silence. Siegal: And nobody leaped up and said, “The government lied to the public for all of these many years.” And I think we went into it expecting that there would be a large public reaction against government deceit. Some of that developed but it developed slowly. Amster: And while I was working on it, I kept thinking that the publication of the papers would soon lead to the end of the Vietnam War because there was so much damning material about Lyndon Johnson and John F. Kennedy. And I thought Nixon would take advantage of that to try to end the war — I didn’t take into account his paranoia and other reasons for suing The Times. Dunlap: I want to reflect one last question as we wrap up. Facebook viewer Lynn Moffat: Can the panel discuss technology’s role in changes that have affected the national secrecy system and the role of journalists? Dunlap: And I would also append to that question, the notion that the internet now perhaps makes possible the publication of information with less of an eye on being enjoined by the government. AdvertisementWhen The Times has seen that threat approaching, as it did with the Risen and Lichtblau story, the notion is, get it up on the web before they even try to stop us. So I’ll put that to you. Technology: How has that changed the reporting of classified information? Amster: Well it’s certainly changed the research involved in doing something like the Pentagon Papers. This is pre-Google, pre-any electronic source of information available and so it really relied on printed matter, mostly. Which was the clipping file, the huge New York Times morgue and also books, magazines, that kind of thing. I think it would be much easier now and quicker to get the information it took so long to get, to verify that. Siegal: But also much harder, if you want to consider something as crass as a newspaper’s competitive position, much harder to keep secrets and keep an exclusive, exclusive. Amster: Within the newsroom itself, everyone was quite aware that something was going on, but nobody knew what. I think there’s no question about it that with social media that would have leaked out so quickly. It would have been very evident that The Times was working on something and it might have curtailed our ability to prepare the Papers. Dunlap: So while it’s true the Pentagon Papers might have fit easily into a thumb drive, we wouldn’t have been able to keep that a secret for very long at all. I thank Allan Siegal, Linda Amster, Betsy Wade and James Goodale for talking about The New York Times’s role in the Pentagon Papers.Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
On Technology By                     
 JOHN HERRMAN
 
JAN. 9, 2018
In a series of studies published in 2012, two psychologists, Ara Norenzayan and Will Gervais, set out to test a simple question: When people think about God, do they feel or act as if they are being monitored? Subjects of varying religiosity were primed to think about God, then asked to complete self-evaluations based on statements like “I am sometimes irritated by people who ask favors of me” and “No matter whom I’m talking to, I’m always a good listener.” Results, researchers said, were consistent with what they call the “supernatural-monitoring hypothesis” — that is, that “thinking of God triggers the same social cognitive processes that are activated by real-time social surveillance.” A sense that you’re being seen — whether by a fellow human or by a supreme consciousness from which no thought can be withheld — does seem to change how you see yourself as well as how you behave.Since 2012, online platforms have moved to the center of hundreds of millions more lives, popularizing their particular brands of social surveillance. Services like Facebook and Twitter and Instagram are inextricably tied to the experience of being monitored by others, which, if it doesn’t always produce “prosocial” behavior in the broad psychological sense, seems to have encouraged behaviors useful to the platforms themselves — activity and growth. These businesses serve many different purposes, but the one thing they have in common is that they have figured out new ways to monetize the powerful twin sensations of seeing and being seen by others.But alongside this exhilarating, debilitating, empowering and terrifying human spectacle, these sites have also fostered — inadvertently — a new but not entirely unfamiliar feeling, that of being watched from above. There is little about the ruthless, marketlike social-media experience that primes you to think about any sort of god. But there are, I’ve noticed, persistent and ever-more-obvious experiences that remind you of another kind of higher power: the automated systems on which these platforms run.Services that used to depend on asking me questions — What do you like? Whom do you want to follow? — have started making more assumptions based on my behavior. I’m reminded that my actions are being recorded and factored into my experience when I am greeted on Twitter by a series of recommendations derived, apparently, from things I’ve liked, looked at or reposted. I’m implicitly prompted to think about algorithmic surveillance when, the day after I wasted a few minutes scrolling through a cycling publication’s account, my Instagram app floods my Explore tab with photos of mountain bikes. Weeks after tapping an unfamiliar name on Facebook and scrolling through the recent posts — a postmarriage surname change, a new profile photo — this person, a former acquaintance I haven’t spoken to in years, is given the same feed placement as current close friends.AdvertisementThese experiences manifest beyond social networks as well. Searches for holiday gifts haunt web browsing, as Amazon “retargeting” ads place the products I looked at, briefly — a thermos, headphones, binoculars — next to, above and in the middle of news articles. They find their way back over the walls too, placing reminders of my recorded behavior in my Instagram feed — ads that say, “We’d like you to buy running gear,” not quite so loudly as they say, “We’ve got eyes everywhere.”Of course, this is the deal we have entered into with such services: our data for their products. That this surveillance is happening is obvious, even if the ways we’re reminded of it can still be jarring. Spotify, the music-streaming service, recently began an ad campaign that mined and cheekily broadcast actual individual listening habits: “Dear person who played ‘Sorry’ 42 times on Valentine’s Day: What did you do?”; “To the person in NoLIta who started listening to holiday music way back in June: You really jingle all the way, huh?” The company was boldly showing off its intimate knowledge of current users in an effort to gain new ones — a harmlessly creepy example of a strategy that could easily backfire.Lately I’ve been wondering if a growing awareness of this peculiar arrangement might have secondary consequences. Maybe knowing that we’re being monitored by judgmental algorithms could affect our behavior, too. If this is the case — if awareness of mechanical all-seeing eyes changes how we see and comport ourselves — then, well, how? I started thinking about a version of this question a few months ago, recording small instances where I could. What I ended up with was a list not of behavioral improvements or of flashes of self-aware accountability but of tiny, neurotic evasions.AdvertisementFor example, I thought better of searching for a friend with whom I had lost touch, knowing that his posts would then climb the ladder of my Facebook feed, turning a flash of guilt into a persistent reminder of my failure. For work, I sometimes need to watch videos made by a range of toxic, hateful or just unappealing vloggers, and I found that I’d avoid watching them on my phone, waiting instead until I could get to my laptop, where I could more quickly and totally log out, go incognito and avoid filling my future YouTube recommendations with bile. During the holidays, I shopped in anonymous tabs, assuming that gifts could be revealed during an idle Instagram scroll on the couch.As with performing on social media for friends, family or co-workers — posting your best pictures, documenting your most exciting activities or professionally marketing yourself — these individually tiny elisions weren’t entirely honest. But unlike these social displays, they were first and foremost intentionally deceptive, and they were rooted in antagonism.Believers in an omniscient God tend to assume that nothing can truly be hidden, including doubt. Pascal’s Wager, for example, which supposes that believing in God is simply a safer bet against even vanishingly narrow odds of eternal damnation, leans on a potentially fatal premise: Surely any conceivable God would know you’re just making a bet? But we ascribe no such powers to algorithms. Machine surveillance can be fooled in small ways and big ones: by the creation of blacked-out spaces, the introduction of strategically tainted data and the performance of a particular version of the self.Social platforms also expect faith from their users: that data will be used responsibly, that at least some forms of privacy among people will be respected. But the flashing reminders of the automatic surveillance on which they are increasingly built can undermine those expectations and remind us instead of our ability to withdraw. Residents in neighborhoods that have been flooded by drivers following directions from Waze — which is owned by Google and supplies data to for Google Maps — have resorted to filing false accident reports to divert drivers. Waze has sought to curb these reports, but in so doing, it has come across less as omniscient than unthinking and defensive — and above all, corporate. Knowing that our maps were watching us produced individual acts of defiance that amounted to collective acts of resistance.Increased awareness of automated surveillance, in other words, is most effective at demystifying the systems doing the watching, not reifying their wisdom and authority. It clarifies our relationships with them: each recommendation or subtle change reminds us not only that we’re being watched, but also that we’ve consented to it. And such awareness will also be a necessity should one or all of these platforms — through more brazen exploitation, calamitous hacking or even greater sharing with governments — cause us to well and truly lose faith. They may aspire to divine levels of omniscience, but they risk driving away their followers in the process.John Herrman is a David Carr fellow at The New York Times.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week. A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page MM14 of the Sunday Magazine.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BENEDICT CAREYJAN. 2, 2018
Fake news evolved from seedy internet sideshow to serious electoral threat so quickly that behavioral scientists had little time to answer basic questions about it, like who was reading what, how much real news they also consumed and whether targeted fact-checking efforts ever hit a target.Sure, surveys abound, asking people what they remember reading. But these are only as precise as the respondents’ shifty recollections and subject to a malleable definition of “fake.” The term “fake news” itself has evolved into an all-purpose smear, used by politicians and the president to deride journalism they don’t like.But now the first hard data on fake-news consumption has arrived. Researchers last week posted an analysis of the browsing histories of thousands of adults during the run-up to the 2016 election — a real-time picture of who viewed which fake stories, and what real news those people were seeing at the same time.The reach of fake news was wide indeed, the study found, yet also shallow. One in four Americans saw at least one false story, but even the most eager fake-news readers — deeply conservative supporters of President Trump — consumed far more of the real kind, from newspaper and network websites and other digital sources.AdvertisementWhile the research can’t settle the question of whether misinformation was pivotal in the 2016 election, the findings give the public and researchers the first solid guide to asking how its influence may have played out. That question will become increasingly important as online giants like Facebook and Google turn to shielding their users from influence by Russian operatives and other online malefactors.Advertisement“There’s been a lot of speculation about the effect of fake news and a lot of numbers thrown around out of context, which get people exercised,” said Duncan Watts, a research scientist at Microsoft who has argued that misinformation had a negligible effect on the election results. “What’s nice about this paper is that it focuses on the actual consumers themselves.”In the new study, a trio of political scientists — Brendan Nyhan of Dartmouth College (a regular contributor to The Times’s Upshot), Andrew Guess of Princeton University and Jason Reifler of the University of Exeter — analyzed web traffic data gathered from a representative sample of 2,525 Americans who consented to have their online activity monitored anonymously by the survey and analytic firm YouGov.The data included website visits made in the weeks before and after the 2016 election, and a measure of political partisanship based on overall browsing habits. (The vast majority of participants favored Mr. Trump or Hillary Clinton.)The team defined a visited website as fake news if it posted at least two demonstrably false stories, as defined by economists Hunt Allcott and Matthew Gentzkow in research published last year. On 289 such sites, about 80 percent of bogus articles supported Mr. Trump.The online behavior of the participants was expected in some ways, but surprising in others. Consumption broke down along partisan lines: the most conservative 10 percent of the sample accounted for about 65 percent of visits to fake news sites.Pro-Trump users were about three times more likely to visit fake news sites supporting their candidate than Clinton partisans were to visit bogus sites promoting her.Still, false stories were a small fraction of the participants’ overall news diet, regardless of political preference: just 1 percent among Clinton supporters, and 6 percent among those pulling for Mr. Trump. Even conservative partisans viewed just five fake news articles, on average, over more than five weeks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.There was no way to determine from the data how much, or whether, people believed what they saw on these sites. But many of these were patently absurd, like one accusing Mrs. Clinton of a “Sudden Move of $1.8 Billion to Qatar Central Bank,” or a piece headlined “Video Showing Bill Clinton With a 13-Year-Old Plunges Race Into Chaos.”Advertisement“For all the hype about fake news, it’s important to recognize that it reached only a subset of Americans, and most of the ones it was reaching already were intense partisans,” Dr. Nyhan said.“They were also voracious consumers of hard news,” he added. “These are people intensely engaged in politics who follow it closely.”Given the ratio of truth to fiction, Dr. Watts said, fake news paled in influence beside mainstream news coverage, particularly stories about Mrs. Clinton and her use of a private email server as secretary of state. Coverage of that topic appeared repeatedly and prominently in venues like The New York Times and the Washington Post.The new study does not rule out the possibility that fake news affected the elections, said David Rand, an associate professor of psychology, economics and management at Yale University.Americans over age 60 were much more likely to visit a fake news site than younger people, the new study found. Perhaps confusingly, moderately left-leaning people viewed more pro-Trump fake news than they did pro-Clinton fake news.One interpretation of that finding, Dr. Rand said, may be that older, less educated voters who switched from Obama in 2012 to Trump in 2016 were particularly susceptible to fake news.“You can see where this might have had an impact in some of those close swing states, like Wisconsin,” Dr. Rand said. “But this of course is a matter of conjecture, reasoning backward from the findings.”The study found that Facebook was by far the platform through which people most often navigated to a fake news site. Last year, in response to criticism, the company began flagging stories on its site that third-party fact-checkers found to make false claims with a red label saying “disputed.”Most people in the new study encountered at least some of these labels, but “we saw no instances of people reading a fake news article and a fact-check of that specific article,” Dr. Nyhan said. “The fact-checking websites have a targeting problem.”AdvertisementIn December, Facebook announced a change to its monitoring approach. Instead of labeling false stories, Facebook will surface the fact-checks along with the fake story in the user’s news feed.A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Sizing Up the Impact of Fake News.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Yes, it’s driven by greed — but the mania for cryptocurrency could wind up building something much more important than wealth.By STEVEN JOHNSONJAN. 16, 2018
layer innocent nothing argue pottery winner cotton menu task slim merge maidThe sequence of words is meaningless: a random array strung together by an algorithm let loose in an English dictionary. What makes them valuable is that they’ve been generated exclusively for me, by a software tool called MetaMask. In the lingo of cryptography, they’re known as my seed phrase. They might read like an incoherent stream of consciousness, but these words can be transformed into a key that unlocks a digital bank account, or even an online identity. It just takes a few more steps.On the screen, I’m instructed to keep my seed phrase secure: Write it down, or keep it in a secure place on your computer. I scribble the 12 words onto a notepad, click a button and my seed phrase is transformed into a string of 64 seemingly patternless characters:1b0be2162cedb2744d016943bb14e71de6af95a63af3790d6b41b1e719dc5c66This is what’s called a “private key” in the world of cryptography: a way of proving identity, in the same, limited way that real-world keys attest to your identity when you unlock your front door. My seed phrase will generate that exact sequence of characters every time, but there’s no known way to reverse-engineer the original phrase from the key, which is why it is so important to keep the seed phrase in a safe location.That private key number is then run through two additional transformations, creating a new string:0x6c2ecd6388c550e8d99ada34a1cd55bedd052ad9That string is my address on the Ethereum blockchain.Ethereum belongs to the same family as the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, whose value has increased more than 1,000 percent in just the past year. Ethereum has its own currencies, most notably Ether, but the platform has a wider scope than just money. You can think of my Ethereum address as having elements of a bank account, an email address and a Social Security number. For now, it exists only on my computer as an inert string of nonsense, but the second I try to perform any kind of transaction — say, contributing to a crowdfunding campaign or voting in an online referendum — that address is broadcast out to an improvised worldwide network of computers that tries to verify the transaction. The results of that verification are then broadcast to the wider network again, where more machines enter into a kind of competition to perform complex mathematical calculations, the winner of which gets to record that transaction in the single, canonical record of every transaction ever made in the history of Ethereum. Because those transactions are registered in a sequence of “blocks” of data, that record is called the blockchain.The whole exchange takes no more than a few minutes to complete. From my perspective, the experience barely differs from the usual routines of online life. But on a technical level, something miraculous is happening — something that would have been unimaginable just a decade ago. I’ve managed to complete a secure transaction without any of the traditional institutions that we rely on to establish trust. No intermediary brokered the deal; no social-media network captured the data from my transaction to better target its advertising; no credit bureau tracked the activity to build a portrait of my financial trustworthiness.AdvertisementAnd the platform that makes all this possible? No one owns it. There are no venture investors backing Ethereum Inc., because there is no Ethereum Inc. As an organizational form, Ethereum is far closer to a democracy than a private corporation. No imperial chief executive calls the shots. You earn the privilege of helping to steer Ethereum’s ship of state by joining the community and doing the work. Like Bitcoin and most other blockchain platforms, Ethereum is more a swarm than a formal entity. Its borders are porous; its hierarchy is deliberately flattened.Oh, one other thing: Some members of that swarm have already accumulated a paper net worth in the billions from their labors, as the value of one “coin” of Ether rose from $8 on Jan. 1, 2017, to $843 exactly one year later.You may be inclined to dismiss these transformations. After all, Bitcoin and Ether’s runaway valuation looks like a case study in irrational exuberance. And why should you care about an arcane technical breakthrough that right now doesn’t feel all that different from signing in to a website to make a credit card payment?But that dismissal would be shortsighted. If there’s one thing we’ve learned from the recent history of the internet, it’s that seemingly esoteric decisions about software architecture can unleash profound global forces once the technology moves into wider circulation. If the email standards adopted in the 1970s had included public-private key cryptography as a default setting, we might have avoided the cataclysmic email hacks that have afflicted everyone from Sony to John Podesta, and millions of ordinary consumers might be spared routinized identity theft. If Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, had included a protocol for mapping our social identity in his original specs, we might not have Facebook.The true believers behind blockchain platforms like Ethereum argue that a network of distributed trust is one of those advances in software architecture that will prove, in the long run, to have historic significance. That promise has helped fuel the huge jump in cryptocurrency valuations. But in a way, the Bitcoin bubble may ultimately turn out to be a distraction from the true significance of the blockchain. The real promise of these new technologies, many of their evangelists believe, lies not in displacing our currencies but in replacing much of what we now think of as the internet, while at the same time returning the online world to a more decentralized and egalitarian system. If you believe the evangelists, the blockchain is the future. But it is also a way of getting back to the internet’s roots.AdvertisementOnce the inspiration for utopian dreams of infinite libraries and global connectivity, the internet has seemingly become, over the past year, a universal scapegoat: the cause of almost every social ill that confronts us. Russian trolls destroy the democratic system with fake news on Facebook; hate speech flourishes on Twitter and Reddit; the vast fortunes of the geek elite worsen income equality. For many of us who participated in the early days of the web, the last few years have felt almost postlapsarian. The web had promised a new kind of egalitarian media, populated by small magazines, bloggers and self-organizing encyclopedias; the information titans that dominated mass culture in the 20th century would give way to a more decentralized system, defined by collaborative networks, not hierarchies and broadcast channels. The wider culture would come to mirror the peer-to-peer architecture of the internet itself. The web in those days was hardly a utopia — there were financial bubbles and spammers and a thousand other problems — but beneath those flaws, we assumed, there was an underlying story of progress.Last year marked the point at which that narrative finally collapsed. The existence of internet skeptics is nothing new, of course; the difference now is that the critical voices increasingly belong to former enthusiasts. “We have to fix the internet,” Walter Isaacson, Steve Jobs’s biographer, wrote in an essay published a few weeks after Donald Trump was elected president. “After 40 years, it has begun to corrode, both itself and us.” The former Google strategist James Williams told The Guardian: “The dynamics of the attention economy are structurally set up to undermine the human will.” In a blog post, Brad Burnham, a managing partner at Union Square Ventures, a top New York venture-capital firm, bemoaned the collateral damage from the quasi monopolies of the digital age: “Publishers find themselves becoming commodity content suppliers in a sea of undifferentiated content in the Facebook news feed. Websites see their fortunes upended by small changes in Google’s search algorithms. And manufacturers watch helplessly as sales dwindle when Amazon decides to source products directly in China and redirect demand to their own products.” (Full disclosure: Burnham’s firm invested in a company I started in 2006; we have had no financial relationship since it sold in 2011.) Even Berners-Lee, the inventor of the web itself, wrote a blog post voicing his concerns that the advertising-based model of social media and search engines creates a climate where “misinformation, or ‘fake news,’ which is surprising, shocking or designed to appeal to our biases, can spread like wildfire.”For most critics, the solution to these immense structural issues has been to propose either a new mindfulness about the dangers of these tools — turning off our smartphones, keeping kids off social media — or the strong arm of regulation and antitrust: making the tech giants subject to the same scrutiny as other industries that are vital to the public interest, like the railroads or telephone networks of an earlier age. Both those ideas are commendable: We probably should develop a new set of habits governing how we interact with social media, and it seems entirely sensible that companies as powerful as Google and Facebook should face the same regulatory scrutiny as, say, television networks. But those interventions are unlikely to fix the core problems that the online world confronts. After all, it was not just the antitrust division of the Department of Justice that challenged Microsoft’s monopoly power in the 1990s; it was also the emergence of new software and hardware — the web, open-source software and Apple products — that helped undermine Microsoft’s dominant position.The blockchain evangelists behind platforms like Ethereum believe that a comparable array of advances in software, cryptography and distributed systems has the ability to tackle today’s digital problems: the corrosive incentives of online advertising; the quasi monopolies of Facebook, Google and Amazon; Russian misinformation campaigns. If they succeed, their creations may challenge the hegemony of the tech giants far more effectively than any antitrust regulation. They even claim to offer an alternative to the winner-take-all model of capitalism than has driven wealth inequality to heights not seen since the age of the robber barons.That remedy is not yet visible in any product that would be intelligible to an ordinary tech consumer. The only blockchain project that has crossed over into mainstream recognition so far is Bitcoin, which is in the middle of a speculative bubble that makes the 1990s internet I.P.O. frenzy look like a neighborhood garage sale. And herein lies the cognitive dissonance that confronts anyone trying to make sense of the blockchain: the potential power of this would-be revolution is being actively undercut by the crowd it is attracting, a veritable goon squad of charlatans, false prophets and mercenaries. Not for the first time, technologists pursuing a vision of an open and decentralized network have found themselves surrounded by a wave of opportunists looking to make an overnight fortune. The question is whether, after the bubble has burst, the very real promise of the blockchain can endure.To some students of modern technological history, the internet’s fall from grace follows an inevitable historical script. As Tim Wu argued in his 2010 book, “The Master Switch,” all the major information technologies of the 20th century adhered to a similar developmental pattern, starting out as the playthings of hobbyists and researchers motivated by curiosity and community, and ending up in the hands of multinational corporations fixated on maximizing shareholder value. Wu calls this pattern the Cycle, and on the surface at least, the internet has followed the Cycle with convincing fidelity. The internet began as a hodgepodge of government-funded academic research projects and side-hustle hobbies. But 20 years after the web first crested into the popular imagination, it has produced in Google, Facebook and Amazon — and indirectly, Apple — what may well be the most powerful and valuable corporations in the history of capitalism.Blockchain advocates don’t accept the inevitability of the Cycle. The roots of the internet were in fact more radically open and decentralized than previous information technologies, they argue, and had we managed to stay true to those roots, it could have remained that way. The online world would not be dominated by a handful of information-age titans; our news platforms would be less vulnerable to manipulation and fraud; identity theft would be far less common; advertising dollars would be distributed across a wider range of media properties.To understand why, it helps to think of the internet as two fundamentally different kinds of systems stacked on top of each other, like layers in an archaeological dig. One layer is composed of the software protocols that were developed in the 1970s and 1980s and hit critical mass, at least in terms of audience, in the 1990s. (A protocol is the software version of a lingua franca, a way that multiple computers agree to communicate with one another. There are protocols that govern the flow of the internet’s raw data, and protocols for sending email messages, and protocols that define the addresses of web pages.) And then above them, a second layer of web-based services — Facebook, Google, Amazon, Twitter — that largely came to power in the following decade.AdvertisementThe first layer — call it InternetOne — was founded on open protocols, which in turn were defined and maintained by academic researchers and international-standards bodies, owned by no one. In fact, that original openness continues to be all around us, in ways we probably don’t appreciate enough. Email is still based on the open protocols POP, SMTP and IMAP; websites are still served up using the open protocol HTTP; bits are still circulated via the original open protocols of the internet, TCP/IP. You don’t need to understand anything about how these software conventions work on a technical level to enjoy their benefits. The key characteristic they all share is that anyone can use them, free of charge. You don’t need to pay a licensing fee to some corporation that owns HTTP if you want to put up a web page; you don’t have to sell a part of your identity to advertisers if you want to send an email using SMTP. Along with Wikipedia, the open protocols of the internet constitute the most impressive example of commons-based production in human history.To see how enormous but also invisible the benefits of such protocols have been, imagine that one of those key standards had not been developed: for instance, the open standard we use for defining our geographic location, GPS. Originally developed by the United States military, the Global Positioning System was first made available for civilian use during the Reagan administration. For about a decade, it was largely used by the aviation industry, until individual consumers began to use it in car navigation systems. And now we have smartphones that can pick up a signal from GPS satellites orbiting above us, and we use that extraordinary power to do everything from locating nearby restaurants to playing Pokémon Go to coordinating disaster-relief efforts.But what if the military had kept GPS out of the public domain? Presumably, sometime in the 1990s, a market signal would have gone out to the innovators of Silicon Valley and other tech hubs, suggesting that consumers were interested in establishing their exact geographic coordinates so that those locations could be projected onto digital maps. There would have been a few years of furious competition among rival companies, who would toss their own proprietary satellites into orbit and advance their own unique protocols, but eventually the market would have settled on one dominant model, given all the efficiencies that result from a single, common way of verifying location. Call that imaginary firm GeoBook. Initially, the embrace of GeoBook would have been a leap forward for consumers and other companies trying to build location awareness into their hardware and software. But slowly, a darker narrative would have emerged: a single private corporation, tracking the movements of billions of people around the planet, building an advertising behemoth based on our shifting locations. Any start-up trying to build a geo-aware application would have been vulnerable to the whims of mighty GeoBook. Appropriately angry polemics would have been written denouncing the public menace of this Big Brother in the sky.But none of that happened, for a simple reason. Geolocation, like the location of web pages and email addresses and domain names, is a problem we solved with an open protocol. And because it’s a problem we don’t have, we rarely think about how beautifully GPS does work and how many different applications have been built on its foundation.The open, decentralized web turns out to be alive and well on the InternetOne layer. But since we settled on the World Wide Web in the mid-’90s, we’ve adopted very few new open-standard protocols. The biggest problems that technologists tackled after 1995 — many of which revolved around identity, community and payment mechanisms — were left to the private sector to solve. This is what led, in the early 2000s, to a powerful new layer of internet services, which we might call InternetTwo.For all their brilliance, the inventors of the open protocols that shaped the internet failed to include some key elements that would later prove critical to the future of online culture. Perhaps most important, they did not create a secure open standard that established human identity on the network. Units of information could be defined — pages, links, messages — but people did not have their own protocol: no way to define and share your real name, your location, your interests or (perhaps most crucial) your relationships to other people online.This turns out to have been a major oversight, because identity is the sort of problem that benefits from one universally recognized solution. It’s what Vitalik Buterin, a founder of Ethereum, describes as “base-layer” infrastructure: things like language, roads and postal services, platforms where commerce and competition are actually assisted by having an underlying layer in the public domain. Offline, we don’t have an open market for physical passports or Social Security numbers; we have a few reputable authorities — most of them backed by the power of the state — that we use to confirm to others that we are who we say we are. But online, the private sector swooped in to fill that vacuum, and because identity had that characteristic of being a universal problem, the market was heavily incentivized to settle on one common standard for defining yourself and the people you know.The self-reinforcing feedback loops that economists call “increasing returns” or “network effects” kicked in, and after a period of experimentation in which we dabbled in social-media start-ups like Myspace and Friendster, the market settled on what is essentially a proprietary standard for establishing who you are and whom you know. That standard is Facebook. With more than two billion users, Facebook is far larger than the entire internet at the peak of the dot-com bubble in the late 1990s. And that user growth has made it the world’s sixth-most-valuable corporation, just 14 years after it was founded. Facebook is the ultimate embodiment of the chasm that divides InternetOne and InternetTwo economies. No private company owned the protocols that defined email or GPS or the open web. But one single corporation owns the data that define social identity for two billion people today — and one single person, Mark Zuckerberg, holds the majority of the voting power in that corporation.AdvertisementIf you see the rise of the centralized web as an inevitable turn of the Cycle, and the open-protocol idealism of the early web as a kind of adolescent false consciousness, then there’s less reason to fret about all the ways we’ve abandoned the vision of InternetOne. Either we’re living in a fallen state today and there’s no way to get back to Eden, or Eden itself was a kind of fantasy that was always going to be corrupted by concentrated power. In either case, there’s no point in trying to restore the architecture of InternetOne; our only hope is to use the power of the state to rein in these corporate giants, through regulation and antitrust action. It’s a variation of the old Audre Lorde maxim: “The master’s tools will never dismantle the master’s house.” You can’t fix the problems technology has created for us by throwing more technological solutions at it. You need forces outside the domain of software and servers to break up cartels with this much power.But the thing about the master’s house, in this analogy, is that it’s a duplex. The upper floor has indeed been built with tools that cannot be used to dismantle it. But the open protocols beneath them still have the potential to build something better.One of the most persuasive advocates of an open-protocol revival is Juan Benet, a Mexican-born programmer now living on a suburban side street in Palo Alto, Calif., in a three-bedroom rental that he shares with his girlfriend and another programmer, plus a rotating cast of guests, some of whom belong to Benet’s organization, Protocol Labs. On a warm day in September, Benet greeted me at his door wearing a black Protocol Labs hoodie. The interior of the space brought to mind the incubator/frat house of HBO’s “Silicon Valley,” its living room commandeered by an array of black computer monitors. In the entrance hallway, the words “Welcome to Rivendell” were scrawled out on a whiteboard, a nod to the Elven city from “Lord of the Rings.” “We call this house Rivendell,” Benet said sheepishly. “It’s not a very good Rivendell. It doesn’t have enough books, or waterfalls, or elves.”Benet, who is 29, considers himself a child of the first peer-to-peer revolution that briefly flourished in the late 1990s and early 2000s, driven in large part by networks like BitTorrent that distributed media files, often illegally. That initial flowering was in many ways a logical outgrowth of the internet’s decentralized, open-protocol roots. The web had shown that you could publish documents reliably in a commons-based network. Services like BitTorrent or Skype took that logic to the next level, allowing ordinary users to add new functionality to the internet: creating a distributed library of (largely pirated) media, as with BitTorrent, or helping people make phone calls over the internet, as with Skype.Sitting in the living room/office at Rivendell, Benet told me that he thinks of the early 2000s, with the ascent of Skype and BitTorrent, as “the ‘summer’ of peer-to-peer” — its salad days. “But then peer-to-peer hit a wall, because people started to prefer centralized architectures,” he said. “And partly because the peer-to-peer business models were piracy-driven.” A graduate of Stanford’s computer-science program, Benet talks in a manner reminiscent of Elon Musk: As he speaks, his eyes dart across an empty space above your head, almost as though he’s reading an invisible teleprompter to find the words. He is passionate about the technology Protocol Labs is developing, but also keen to put it in a wider context. For Benet, the shift from distributed systems to more centralized approaches set in motion changes that few could have predicted. “The rules of the game, the rules that govern all of this technology, matter a lot,” he said. “The structure of what we build now will paint a very different picture of the way things will be five or 10 years in the future.” He continued: “It was clear to me then that peer-to-peer was this extraordinary thing. What was not clear to me then was how at risk it is. It was not clear to me that you had to take up the baton, that it’s now your turn to protect it.”Protocol Labs is Benet’s attempt to take up that baton, and its first project is a radical overhaul of the internet’s file system, including the basic scheme we use to address the location of pages on the web. Benet calls his system IPFS, short for InterPlanetary File System. The current protocol — HTTP — pulls down web pages from a single location at a time and has no built-in mechanism for archiving the online pages. IPFS allows users to download a page simultaneously from multiple locations and includes what programmers call “historic versioning,” so that past iterations do not vanish from the historical record. To support the protocol, Benet is also creating a system called Filecoin that will allow users to effectively rent out unused hard-drive space. (Think of it as a sort of Airbnb for data.) “Right now there are tons of hard drives around the planet that are doing nothing, or close to nothing, to the point where their owners are just losing money,” Benet said. “So you can bring online a massive amount of supply, which will bring down the costs of storage.” But as its name suggests, Protocol Labs has an ambition that extends beyond these projects; Benet’s larger mission is to support many new open-source protocols in the years to come.Why did the internet follow the path from open to closed? One part of the explanation lies in sins of omission: By the time a new generation of coders began to tackle the problems that InternetOne left unsolved, there were near-limitless sources of capital to invest in those efforts, so long as the coders kept their systems closed. The secret to the success of the open protocols of InternetOne is that they were developed in an age when most people didn’t care about online networks, so they were able to stealthily reach critical mass without having to contend with wealthy conglomerates and venture capitalists. By the mid-2000s, though, a promising new start-up like Facebook could attract millions of dollars in financing even before it became a household brand. And that private-sector money ensured that the company’s key software would remain closed, in order to capture as much value as possible for shareholders.And yet — as the venture capitalist Chris Dixon points out — there was another factor, too, one that was more technical than financial in nature. “Let’s say you’re trying to build an open Twitter,” Dixon explained while sitting in a conference room at the New York offices of Andreessen Horowitz, where he is a general partner. “I’m @cdixon at Twitter. Where do you store that? You need a database.” A closed architecture like Facebook’s or Twitter’s puts all the information about its users — their handles, their likes and photos, the map of connections they have to other individuals on the network — into a private database that is maintained by the company. Whenever you look at your Facebook newsfeed, you are granted access to some infinitesimally small section of that database, seeing only the information that is relevant to you.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Running Facebook’s database is an unimaginably complex operation, relying on hundreds of thousands of servers scattered around the world, overseen by some of the most brilliant engineers on the planet. From Facebook’s point of view, they’re providing a valuable service to humanity: creating a common social graph for almost everyone on earth. The fact that they have to sell ads to pay the bills for that service — and the fact that the scale of their network gives them staggering power over the minds of two billion people around the world — is an unfortunate, but inevitable, price to pay for a shared social graph. And that trade-off did in fact make sense in the mid-2000s; creating a single database capable of tracking the interactions of hundreds of millions of people — much less two billion — was the kind of problem that could be tackled only by a single organization. But as Benet and his fellow blockchain evangelists are eager to prove, that might not be true anymore.AdvertisementSo how can you get meaningful adoption of base-layer protocols in an age when the big tech companies have already attracted billions of users and collectively sit on hundreds of billions of dollars in cash? If you happen to believe that the internet, in its current incarnation, is causing significant and growing harm to society, then this seemingly esoteric problem — the difficulty of getting people to adopt new open-source technology standards — turns out to have momentous consequences. If we can’t figure out a way to introduce new, rival base-layer infrastructure, then we’re stuck with the internet we have today. The best we can hope for is government interventions to scale back the power of Facebook or Google, or some kind of consumer revolt that encourages that marketplace to shift to less hegemonic online services, the digital equivalent of forswearing big agriculture for local farmers’ markets. Neither approach would upend the underlying dynamics of InternetTwo.The first hint of a meaningful challenge to the closed-protocol era arrived in 2008, not long after Zuckerberg opened the first international headquarters for his growing company. A mysterious programmer (or group of programmers) going by the name Satoshi Nakamoto circulated a paper on a cryptography mailing list. The paper was called “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,” and in it, Nakamoto outlined an ingenious system for a digital currency that did not require a centralized trusted authority to verify transactions. At the time, Facebook and Bitcoin seemed to belong to entirely different spheres — one was a booming venture-backed social-media start-up that let you share birthday greetings and connect with old friends, while the other was a byzantine scheme for cryptographic currency from an obscure email list. But 10 years later, the ideas that Nakamoto unleashed with that paper now pose the most significant challenge to the hegemony of InternetTwo giants like Facebook.The paradox about Bitcoin is that it may well turn out to be a genuinely revolutionary breakthrough and at the same time a colossal failure as a currency. As I write, Bitcoin has increased in value by nearly 100,000 percent over the past five years, making a fortune for its early investors but also branding it as a spectacularly unstable payment mechanism. The process for creating new Bitcoins has also turned out to be a staggering energy drain.History is replete with stories of new technologies whose initial applications end up having little to do with their eventual use. All the focus on Bitcoin as a payment system may similarly prove to be a distraction, a technological red herring. Nakamoto pitched Bitcoin as a “peer-to-peer electronic-cash system” in the initial manifesto, but at its heart, the innovation he (or she or they) was proposing had a more general structure, with two key features.First, Bitcoin offered a kind of proof that you could create a secure database — the blockchain — scattered across hundreds or thousands of computers, with no single authority controlling and verifying the authenticity of the data.Second, Nakamoto designed Bitcoin so that the work of maintaining that distributed ledger was itself rewarded with small, increasingly scarce Bitcoin payments. If you dedicated half your computer’s processing cycles to helping the Bitcoin network get its math right — and thus fend off the hackers and scam artists — you received a small sliver of the currency. Nakamoto designed the system so that Bitcoins would grow increasingly difficult to earn over time, ensuring a certain amount of scarcity in the system. If you helped Bitcoin keep that database secure in the early days, you would earn more Bitcoin than later arrivals. This process has come to be called “mining.”For our purposes, forget everything else about the Bitcoin frenzy, and just keep these two things in mind: What Nakamoto ushered into the world was a way of agreeing on the contents of a database without anyone being “in charge” of the database, and a way of compensating people for helping make that database more valuable, without those people being on an official payroll or owning shares in a corporate entity. Together, those two ideas solved the distributed-database problem and the funding problem. Suddenly there was a way of supporting open protocols that wasn’t available during the infancy of Facebook and Twitter.These two features have now been replicated in dozens of new systems inspired by Bitcoin. One of those systems is Ethereum, proposed in a white paper by Vitalik Buterin when he was just 19. Ethereum does have its currencies, but at its heart Ethereum was designed less to facilitate electronic payments than to allow people to run applications on top of the Ethereum blockchain. There are currently hundreds of Ethereum apps in development, ranging from prediction markets to Facebook clones to crowdfunding services. Almost all of them are in pre-alpha stage, not ready for consumer adoption. Despite the embryonic state of the applications, the Ether currency has seen its own miniature version of the Bitcoin bubble, most likely making Buterin an immense fortune.AdvertisementThese currencies can be used in clever ways. Juan Benet’s Filecoin system will rely on Ethereum technology and reward users and developers who adopt its IPFS protocol or help maintain the shared database it requires. Protocol Labs is creating its own cryptocurrency, also called Filecoin, and has plans to sell some of those coins on the open market in the coming months. (In the summer of 2017, the company raised $135 million in the first 60 minutes of what Benet calls a “presale” of the tokens to accredited investors.) Many cryptocurrencies are first made available to the public through a process known as an initial coin offering, or I.C.O.The I.C.O. abbreviation is a deliberate echo of the initial public offering that so defined the first internet bubble in the 1990s. But there is a crucial difference between the two. Speculators can buy in during an I.C.O., but they are not buying an ownership stake in a private company and its proprietary software, the way they might in a traditional I.P.O. Afterward, the coins will continue to be created in exchange for labor — in the case of Filecoin, by anyone who helps maintain the Filecoin network. Developers who help refine the software can earn the coins, as can ordinary users who lend out spare hard-drive space to expand the network’s storage capacity. The Filecoin is a way of signaling that someone, somewhere, has added value to the network.Advocates like Chris Dixon have started referring to the compensation side of the equation in terms of “tokens,” not coins, to emphasize that the technology here isn’t necessarily aiming to disrupt existing currency systems. “I like the metaphor of a token because it makes it very clear that it’s like an arcade,” he says. “You go to the arcade, and in the arcade you can use these tokens. But we’re not trying to replace the U.S. government. It’s not meant to be a real currency; it’s meant to be a pseudo-currency inside this world.” Dan Finlay, a creator of MetaMask, echoes Dixon’s argument. “To me, what’s interesting about this is that we get to program new value systems,” he says. “They don’t have to resemble money.”Pseudo or not, the idea of an I.C.O. has already inspired a host of shady offerings, some of them endorsed by celebrities who would seem to be unlikely blockchain enthusiasts, like DJ Khaled, Paris Hilton and Floyd Mayweather. In a blog post published in October 2017, Fred Wilson, a founder of Union Square Ventures and an early advocate of the blockchain revolution, thundered against the spread of I.C.O.s. “I hate it,” Wilson wrote, adding that most I.C.O.s “are scams. And the celebrities and others who promote them on their social-media channels in an effort to enrich themselves are behaving badly and possibly violating securities laws.” Arguably the most striking thing about the surge of interest in I.C.O.s — and in existing currencies like Bitcoin or Ether — is how much financial speculation has already gravitated to platforms that have effectively zero adoption among ordinary consumers. At least during the internet bubble of late 1990s, ordinary people were buying books on Amazon or reading newspapers online; there was clear evidence that the web was going to become a mainstream platform. Today, the hype cycles are so accelerated that billions of dollars are chasing a technology that almost no one outside the cryptocommunity understands, much less uses.Let’s say, for the sake of argument, that the hype is warranted, and blockchain platforms like Ethereum become a fundamental part of our digital infrastructure. How would a distributed ledger and a token economy somehow challenge one of the tech giants? One of Fred Wilson’s partners at Union Square Ventures, Brad Burnham, suggests a scenario revolving around another tech giant that has run afoul of regulators and public opinion in the last year: Uber. “Uber is basically just a coordination platform between drivers and passengers,” Burnham says. “Yes, it was really innovative, and there were a bunch of things in the beginning about reducing the anxiety of whether the driver was coming or not, and the map — and a whole bunch of things that you should give them a lot of credit for.” But when a new service like Uber starts to take off, there’s a strong incentive for the marketplace to consolidate around a single leader. The fact that more passengers are starting to use the Uber app attracts more drivers to the service, which in turn attracts more passengers. People have their credit cards stored with Uber; they have the app installed already; there are far more Uber drivers on the road. And so the switching costs of trying out some other rival service eventually become prohibitive, even if the chief executive seems to be a jerk or if consumers would, in the abstract, prefer a competitive marketplace with a dozen Ubers. “At some point, the innovation around the coordination becomes less and less innovative,” Burnham says.The blockchain world proposes something different. Imagine some group like Protocol Labs decides there’s a case to be made for adding another “basic layer” to the stack. Just as GPS gave us a way of discovering and sharing our location, this new protocol would define a simple request: I am here and would like to go there. A distributed ledger might record all its users’ past trips, credit cards, favorite locations — all the metadata that services like Uber or Amazon use to encourage lock-in. Call it, for the sake of argument, the Transit protocol. The standards for sending a Transit request out onto the internet would be entirely open; anyone who wanted to build an app to respond to that request would be free to do so. Cities could build Transit apps that allowed taxi drivers to field requests. But so could bike-share collectives, or rickshaw drivers. Developers could create shared marketplace apps where all the potential vehicles using Transit could vie for your business. When you walked out on the sidewalk and tried to get a ride, you wouldn’t have to place your allegiance with a single provider before hailing. You would simply announce that you were standing at 67th and Madison and needed to get to Union Square. And then you’d get a flurry of competing offers. You could even theoretically get an offer from the M.T.A., which could build a service to remind Transit users that it might be much cheaper and faster just to jump on the 6 train.How would Transit reach critical mass when Uber and Lyft already dominate the ride-sharing market? This is where the tokens come in. Early adopters of Transit would be rewarded with Transit tokens, which could themselves be used to purchase Transit services or be traded on exchanges for traditional currency. As in the Bitcoin model, tokens would be doled out less generously as Transit grew more popular. In the early days, a developer who built an iPhone app that uses Transit might see a windfall of tokens; Uber drivers who started using Transit as a second option for finding passengers could collect tokens as a reward for embracing the system; adventurous consumers would be rewarded with tokens for using Transit in its early days, when there are fewer drivers available compared with the existing proprietary networks like Uber or Lyft.As Transit began to take off, it would attract speculators, who would put a monetary price on the token and drive even more interest in the protocol by inflating its value, which in turn would attract more developers, drivers and customers. If the whole system ends up working as its advocates believe, the result is a more competitive but at the same time more equitable marketplace. Instead of all the economic value being captured by the shareholders of one or two large corporations that dominate the market, the economic value is distributed across a much wider group: the early developers of Transit, the app creators who make the protocol work in a consumer-friendly form, the early-adopter drivers and passengers, the first wave of speculators. Token economies introduce a strange new set of elements that do not fit the traditional models: instead of creating value by owning something, as in the shareholder equity model, people create value by improving the underlying protocol, either by helping to maintain the ledger (as in Bitcoin mining), or by writing apps atop it, or simply by using the service. The lines between founders, investors and customers are far blurrier than in traditional corporate models; all the incentives are explicitly designed to steer away from winner-take-all outcomes. And yet at the same time, the whole system depends on an initial speculative phase in which outsiders are betting on the token to rise in value.Advertisement“You think about the ’90s internet bubble and all the great infrastructure we got out of that,” Dixon says. “You’re basically taking that effect and shrinking it down to the size of an application.”Even decentralized cryptomovements have their key nodes. For Ethereum, one of those nodes is the Brooklyn headquarters of an organization called ConsenSys, founded by Joseph Lubin, an early Ethereum pioneer. In November, Amanda Gutterman, the 26-year-old chief marketing officer for ConsenSys, gave me a tour of the space. In our first few minutes together, she offered the obligatory cup of coffee, only to discover that the drip-coffee machine in the kitchen was bone dry. “How can we fix the internet if we can’t even make coffee?” she said with a laugh.Planted in industrial Bushwick, a stone’s throw from the pizza mecca Roberta’s, “headquarters” seemed an unlikely word. The front door was festooned with graffiti and stickers; inside, the stairwells of the space appeared to have been last renovated during the Coolidge administration. Just about three years old, the ConsenSys network now includes more than 550 employees in 28 countries, and the operation has never raised a dime of venture capital. As an organization, ConsenSys does not quite fit any of the usual categories: It is technically a corporation, but it has elements that also resemble nonprofits and workers’ collectives. The shared goal of ConsenSys members is strengthening and expanding the Ethereum blockchain. They support developers creating new apps and tools for the platform, one of which is MetaMask, the software that generated my Ethereum address. But they also offer consulting-style services for companies, nonprofits or governments looking for ways to integrate Ethereum’s smart contracts into their own systems.The true test of the blockchain will revolve — like so many of the online crises of the past few years — around the problem of identity. Today your digital identity is scattered across dozens, or even hundreds, of different sites: Amazon has your credit-card information and your purchase history; Facebook knows your friends and family; Equifax maintains your credit history. When you use any of those services, you are effectively asking for permission to borrow some of that information about yourself in order perform a task: ordering a Christmas present for your uncle, checking Instagram to see pictures from the office party last night. But all these different fragments of your identity don’t belong to you; they belong to Facebook and Amazon and Google, who are free to sell bits of that information about you to advertisers without consulting you. You, of course, are free to delete those accounts if you choose, and if you stop checking Facebook, Zuckerberg and the Facebook shareholders will stop making money by renting out your attention to their true customers. But your Facebook or Google identity isn’t portable. If you want to join another promising social network that is maybe a little less infected with Russian bots, you can’t extract your social network from Twitter and deposit it in the new service. You have to build the network again from scratch (and persuade all your friends to do the same).The blockchain evangelists think this entire approach is backward. You should own your digital identity — which could include everything from your date of birth to your friend networks to your purchasing history — and you should be free to lend parts of that identity out to services as you see fit. Given that identity was not baked into the original internet protocols, and given the difficulty of managing a distributed database in the days before Bitcoin, this form of “self-sovereign” identity — as the parlance has it — was a practical impossibility. Now it is an attainable goal. A number of blockchain-based services are trying to tackle this problem, including a new identity system called uPort that has been spun out of ConsenSys and another one called Blockstack that is currently based on the Bitcoin platform. (Tim Berners-Lee is leading the development of a comparable system, called Solid, that would also give users control over their own data.) These rival protocols all have slightly different frameworks, but they all share a general vision of how identity should work on a truly decentralized internet.What would prevent a new blockchain-based identity standard from following Tim Wu’s Cycle, the same one that brought Facebook to such a dominant position? Perhaps nothing. But imagine how that sequence would play out in practice. Someone creates a new protocol to define your social network via Ethereum. It might be as simple as a list of other Ethereum addresses; in other words, Here are the public addresses of people I like and trust. That way of defining your social network might well take off and ultimately supplant the closed systems that define your network on Facebook. Perhaps someday, every single person on the planet might use that standard to map their social connections, just as every single person on the internet uses TCP/IP to share data. But even if this new form of identity became ubiquitous, it wouldn’t present the same opportunities for abuse and manipulation that you find in the closed systems that have become de facto standards. I might allow a Facebook-style service to use my social map to filter news or gossip or music for me, based on the activity of my friends, but if that service annoyed me, I’d be free to sample other alternatives without the switching costs. An open identity standard would give ordinary people the opportunity to sell their attention to the highest bidder, or choose to keep it out of the marketplace altogether.Gutterman suggests that the same kind of system could be applied to even more critical forms of identity, like health care data. Instead of storing, say, your genome on servers belonging to a private corporation, the information would instead be stored inside a personal data archive. “There may be many corporate entities that I don’t want seeing that data, but maybe I’d like to donate that data to a medical study,” she says. “I could use my blockchain-based self-sovereign ID to [allow] one group to use it and not another. Or I could sell it over here and give it away over there.”The token architecture would give a blockchain-based identity standard an additional edge over closed standards like Facebook’s. As many critics have observed, ordinary users on social-media platforms create almost all the content without compensation, while the companies capture all the economic value from that content through advertising sales. A token-based social network would at least give early adopters a piece of the action, rewarding them for their labors in making the new platform appealing. “If someone can really figure out a version of Facebook that lets users own a piece of the network and get paid,” Dixon says, “that could be pretty compelling.”AdvertisementWould that information be more secure in a distributed blockchain than behind the elaborate firewalls of giant corporations like Google or Facebook? In this one respect, the Bitcoin story is actually instructive: It may never be stable enough to function as a currency, but it does offer convincing proof of just how secure a distributed ledger can be. “Look at the market cap of Bitcoin or Ethereum: $80 billion, $25 billion, whatever,” Dixon says. “That means if you successfully attack that system, you could walk away with more than a billion dollars. You know what a ‘bug bounty’ is? Someone says, ‘If you hack my system, I’ll give you a million dollars.’ So Bitcoin is now a nine-year-old multibillion-dollar bug bounty, and no one’s hacked it. It feels like pretty good proof.”Additional security would come from the decentralized nature of these new identity protocols. In the identity system proposed by Blockstack, the actual information about your identity — your social connections, your purchasing history — could be stored anywhere online. The blockchain would simply provide cryptographically secure keys to unlock that information and share it with other trusted providers. A system with a centralized repository with data for hundreds of millions of users — what security experts call “honey pots” — is far more appealing to hackers. Which would you rather do: steal a hundred million credit histories by hacking into a hundred million separate personal computers and sniﬃng around until you found the right data on each machine? Or just hack into one honey pot at Equifax and walk away with the same amount of data in a matter of hours? As Gutterman puts it, “It’s the difference between robbing a house versus robbing the entire village.”So much of the blockchain’s architecture is shaped by predictions about how that architecture might be abused once it finds a wider audience. That is part of its charm and its power. The blockchain channels the energy of speculative bubbles by allowing tokens to be shared widely among true supporters of the platform. It safeguards against any individual or small group gaining control of the entire database. Its cryptography is designed to protect against surveillance states or identity thieves. In this, the blockchain displays a familial resemblance to political constitutions: Its rules are designed with one eye on how those rules might be exploited down the line.Much has been made of the anarcho-libertarian streak in Bitcoin and other nonfiat currencies; the community is rife with words and phrases (“self-sovereign”) that sound as if they could be slogans for some militia compound in Montana. And yet in its potential to break up large concentrations of power and explore less-proprietary models of ownership, the blockchain idea offers a tantalizing possibility for those who would like to distribute wealth more equitably and break up the cartels of the digital age.The blockchain worldview can also sound libertarian in the sense that it proposes nonstate solutions to capitalist excesses like information monopolies. But to believe in the blockchain is not necessarily to oppose regulation, if that regulation is designed with complementary aims. Brad Burnham, for instance, suggests that regulators should insist that everyone have “a right to a private data store,” where all the various facets of their online identity would be maintained. But governments wouldn’t be required to design those identity protocols. They would be developed on the blockchain, open source. Ideologically speaking, that private data store would be a true team effort: built as an intellectual commons, funded by token speculators, supported by the regulatory state.Like the original internet itself, the blockchain is an idea with radical — almost communitarian — possibilities that at the same time has attracted some of the most frivolous and regressive appetites of capitalism. We spent our first years online in a world defined by open protocols and intellectual commons; we spent the second phase in a world increasingly dominated by closed architectures and proprietary databases. We have learned enough from this history to support the hypothesis that open works better than closed, at least where base-layer issues are concerned. But we don’t have an easy route back to the open-protocol era. Some messianic next-generation internet protocol is not likely to emerge out of Department of Defense research, the way the first-generation internet did nearly 50 years ago.Yes, the blockchain may seem like the very worst of speculative capitalism right now, and yes, it is demonically challenging to understand. But the beautiful thing about open protocols is that they can be steered in surprising new directions by the people who discover and champion them in their infancy. Right now, the only real hope for a revival of the open-protocol ethos lies in the blockchain. Whether it eventually lives up to its egalitarian promise will in large part depend on the people who embrace the platform, who take up the baton, as Juan Benet puts it, from those early online pioneers. If you think the internet is not working in its current incarnation, you can’t change the system through think-pieces and F.C.C. regulations alone. You need new code.Steven Johnson is the author of 10 books, most recently “Wonderland.” He last wrote for the magazine about the science of communicating with extraterrestrials.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page MM36 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Beyond the Bitcoin Bubble.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Book Entry By                     
JONATHAN A. KNEE

JAN. 11, 2018
It is indisputable that the internet — facilitated by both vast improvements in access and computing power — has had a disruptive impact on not just business but politics and many aspects of our daily lives. Demonstrating precisely what that impact is, however, has been remarkably challenging. Pronouncements on the topic have a tendency to be overblown. “Transformational,” “exponential” and “revolutionary” are increasingly favored adjectives, whether they are applicable or not.The impression that the world is changing faster today than ever before has become conventional wisdom. Yet the magnitude of change that occurred between when America galloped into World War I on horses and dropped the atomic bomb feels more significant than that undergone since the first dot-com domain name was registered. This observation is not meant to diminish the importance of the seismic changes wrought by the digital age, but rather to suggest the relevance of historical context often absent from the conversation.A new book by prolific historian Niall Ferguson, “The Square and the Tower: Networks and Power from the Freemasons to Facebook” (Penguin), goes a long way toward redressing this pervasive lack of perspective to a concept central to the contemporary technological “revolution”: networks.The internet itself is a network of networks. The ability to communicate and transact across its vast reach is indeed unprecedented and represents the basic infrastructure of what has been termed the “network society.” Mr. Ferguson’s book does far more than simply track the use of the word “network” from its introduction in English language publications in the late 19th century, when it “was scarcely used,” to the modern day, when he points out that it appeared in 136 articles in The New York Times during just the first week of 2017. Rather he seeks to reframe the entirety of human history as an endless tug-of-war between eras in which powerful hierarchical institutions predominate (the Tower of the title) only to be undermined by the influence of emerging networks (the corresponding Square). In Professor Ferguson’s telling, these networks are invariably co-opted by reconstituted hierarchies and the process begins again.AdvertisementFor instance, Professor Ferguson argues it was the printing press that was largely responsible for three “network-based revolutions — the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution and the Enlightenment.” These were followed by a hundred-year period of hierarchical international order dominated by five hubs (Austria, Britain, France, Prussia and Russia) leading up to the First World War.The new industrial, financial and communications networks that emerged during this time did not, however, overturn the hierarchical nature of things. This dominant structure survived both world wars, according to Professor Ferguson, with the mid-twentieth century actually representing the “zenith of hierarchy.” His account shows how the ability to navigate and influence these and other nascent networks determined which empires thrived in the reconfigured hierarchical orders.One does not have to completely buy in to the book’s reframing of key social and political turning points to find the narrative both captivating and compelling. Whether describing the surprisingly ineffective 18th century network of the mysterious Illuminati that continue to be the subject of crank conspiracy theorists or the shockingly effective 20th century network of Cambridge University spies working for the Soviets, Professor Ferguson manages both to tell a good story and provide important insight into the specific qualities that power successful networks.AdvertisementAttempting to cover so much ground in such short space (“The Square and the Tower” is less than half the length of Professor Ferguson’s recent biography of Henry Kissinger) risks fatal oversimplification. The book’s most impressive accomplishment is to avoid such a fate. Professor Ferguson provides a credible summary of contemporary network theory and makes clear that “a hierarchy is just a special kind of network” in which nodes communicate up and down but never connect laterally. There are no true pure hierarchies — Stalin’s Russia probably comes closest — and the greatest strength of “The Square and the Tower” is that it generally avoids caricature. Instead, it emphasizes the critical questions of what distinguishes network effectiveness and what happens when networks interact.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Professor Ferguson brings us up to the present with a discussion of the technology giants that have emerged in the last few decades. His focus is on their political and economic influence. He includes an interesting discussion of the similarities and differences between the impact of the internet and the printing press.There is a burgeoning literature in management journals and business books that focuses on the internet’s influence on business strategy rather than politics. In some ways, this work reflects a variation on the paradigm described by Professor Ferguson. Corresponding to the discussion of “old hierarchies” are businesses that rely on high fixed costs to build barriers to competitive entry, whereas the disruptive “new networks” are constructed on digital platforms made possible by the internet. These new businesses, it is argued, fuel so-called “network effects” that lead inevitably to winner-take-all marketplaces.These analyses, however, have lacked the historical perspective of “The Square and the Tower.” In place of the nuanced discussion of how hierarchies and networks interact, is a broad-brush assertion that scale achieved through network effects is inherently superior to that based on old-fashioned fixed costs.In fact, platforms are no more a peculiarly modern phenomenon than networks are, and their digital incarnations are not necessarily better businesses than those that came before. Analog malls had the benefit of their shoppers being many miles away from competing malls and their retail tenants being committed to long-term leases. On the internet, platform competitors are only a click away and relationships are notoriously transactional.The important lesson of “The Square and the Tower” is that the existence of a network, or network effects for that matter, should be the beginning not the end of the analysis. The critical questions relate to the network’s key characteristics and how it interacts with other networks and hierarchies.The same is true of platform businesses, which are of highly diverse quality depending on their structural attributes and the ecosystems within which they operate. It is not a coincidence that the two largest and most enduring purely digital platforms — Google and Amazon — are not primarily network-effects businesses, but instead are companies that benefit from leveraging multiple, complementary sources of competitive advantage including, notably, traditional fixed-cost scale.Predicting the viability of new business models requires a careful understanding of both history and industry structure. If “The Square and the Tower” encourages digital business strategists and venture capitalists to take this to heart, it will have made an important, if unexpected, contribution.Jonathan A. Knee is Professor of Professional Practice at Columbia Business School and a Senior Advisor at Evercore. His latest book is “Class Clowns: How the Smartest Investors Lost Billions in Education.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By LIZ ALDERMANJAN. 23, 2018
PARIS — The announcements came in a steady drumbeat. Around 1,300 job cuts at France’s biggest automaker. At least 2,500 at France’s largest supermarket chain. Over 200 sought at a major clothing retailer. And thousands more are on the way.Just weeks after France’s labor overhaul went into effect, companies are readily taking advantage of new rules that make it easier to hire and fire. But the other changes, those designed to help cushion the blow like retraining programs, haven’t been put into place yet, leaving workers vulnerable to a coming wave of downsizing.The changes to the country’s voluminous labor code are part of a broad push by President Emmanuel Macron to revive growth and steer France toward a Scandinavian-style economic model known as “flexible security.” But the initial imbalance between employers’ rights and workers’ protections means the economic picture could get worse before it gets better. Unemployment, persistently stuck at more than 9 percent for nearly a decade, could rise in the coming months. Unions, already dubious of the overhaul, may grow impatient if the government doesn’t follow through on its promises to workers.Advertisement“Right now it’s flexibility, and no security,” said Jean-Paul Fitoussi, an economics professor at the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris. “Companies will do everything they can under the new law to maximize flexibility and facilitate the firing of people.”AdvertisementPerceptions of France, long derided as a difficult place to do business for its onerous labor rules, are changing.Growth has recently picked up after being stagnant for nearly five years. And there are signs that the changes, a major piece of the president’s economic program, are drawing the interest of investors.Amazon will open a new distribution center south of Paris this year, creating over 1,000 jobs. Facebook and Google announced Monday they would invest in artificial intelligence development in France. Also Monday, Toyota announced it would invest 300 million euros, or $367 million, to increase capacity at a plant in northern France, creating up to 700 jobs through 2020.“The complex labor laws have historically been the No. 1 obstacle to the competitiveness and attractiveness of France,” said Olivier Marchal, the chairman of Bain & Company France, a business consulting firm. The changes, together with other business-friendly measures such as a gradual reduction in the corporate tax, have “drastically changed investor perceptions,” he said.The transition, though, is off to a halting start.Mr. Macron wants to invest more than €15 million in programs to improve public and private retraining that have had only mixed success in recent years at ushering the jobless back into employment. Lawmakers won’t vote on the measures until the spring, and any improvements are expected to take months, if not years, to bear fruit.That layoffs are being announced before this crucial part is done has fueled suspicion among organized labor. And while new jobs will eventually be created, many unions worry the changes are a ploy to strip away worker protections — and their own power. In the last several weeks, the country’s most ardent trade organizations have vigorously opposed such plans, with differing results.The new rules tip the balance of power from workers to employers. Businesses have been reluctant to hire because it was difficult to shed workers. Employers have turned en masse to precarious short-term contracts to fill the gaps.AdvertisementNow, companies will be able to negotiate job cuts and restructurings through voluntary departures directly with labor representatives inside the business, rather than under strict industrywide collective bargaining agreements. Multinationals can downsize loss-making French operations more easily, even if the overall business is profitable. Companies will face less risk of legal action over dismissals, and can hire new staff immediately, rather than waiting.The government has portrayed the changes as continuing to protect workers. When Pimkie, a struggling fast-fashion chain whose parent company is profitable, sought hundreds of voluntary buyouts, unions and workers rejected the proposal as insufficient. Managers must now go back to the negotiating table until payout terms satisfactory to the unions are reached. And unions will negotiate with management over the terms of at least 2,500 voluntary departures being pushed by the retail giant Carrefour.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Yet the measures clearly give companies more flexibility. PSA Group, which makes Peugeot and Citroën cars, will offer 1,300 voluntary buyouts to older workers. It will fill most of those vacancies with younger, less expensive employees on full-time contracts after most unions approved the plan, originally unveiled last year. PSA will also offer 2,000 low-paid apprenticeships to young people.Pierre-Olivier Salmon, the head of corporate information at PSA Group, said the carmaker is looking to bring in a new generation of workers with the digital and programming skills needed to develop projects like electric cars and future technology for the automotive industry.Yet most of the positions affected in this round are white-collar posts, such as administrative assistants, communications personnel and those in research and development.That is seen as hardly a positive by some of France’s unions. They are concerned that the outcome at PSA will be replicated by other companies seeking to shed protected workers, and at most bring in a new generation of cheap labor.“This is a means for companies to get rid of employees with seniority, and therefore considered too highly paid, while at the same time recruiting precarious and disposable workers,” Philippe Martinez, the secretary general of the General Confederation of Labor, said in a statement while the negotiations at PSA were being carried out. The union, which spearheaded raucous street demonstrations last year to protest the coming labor law changes, was one of the two that voted against the carmaker’s plans.The new measures may also have the effect of pitting labor groups against one another — a development that could work in Mr. Macron’s favor.While Mr. Martinez’s organization has hewed to a hard line, it is having to contend with another union, the increasingly influential and more moderate French Democratic Confederation of Labor. That group’s leader, Laurent Berger, has pushed for a more flexible approach as the forces of globalization redraw the competitive landscape.AdvertisementHis union hailed last week’s agreement at PSA, saying it was “not a danger for employees,” but “an opportunity for those who want it.”Under that deal, the older workers are being offered generous terms to take the buyouts. And at a time when youth unemployment in France is stuck at nearly 25 percent, the automaker’s simultaneous hiring spree will give thousands of young people a path to work.Yet there is also little doubt that the restructuring will benefit PSA Group’s bottom line: Incoming young workers won’t be paid nearly as much as those heading out the door.“The main point is not to reduce costs,” Mr. Salmon of PSA insisted. “It’s to meet new challenges.”Whatever the case, last week’s announcements of job cuts will likely be followed by others, providing a test for Mr. Macron. He campaigned for the presidency with pledges to make France more dynamic, but not at the cost of unraveling its social welfare model.The challenge is not lost on his rivals.“This labor law allows big companies to fire more quickly and easily,” Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front, wrote on Twitter. Ms. Le Pen, who unsuccessfully challenged Mr. Macron last year in the presidential runoff, added: “The human dramas will multiply.”An earlier version of this article misquoted a statement from Philippe Martinez, the secretary general of the General Confederation of Labor. He said, in part, “This is a means for companies to get rid of employees with seniority,” not “This is a means for companies to get rid of low-cost employees with seniority.”Follow Liz Alderman on Twitter: @LizAldermanNYT.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Newfound Freedom … to Fire.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 23, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• The U.S. government shutdown is over: President Trump signed a bill funding the government through Feb. 8, giving lawmakers more time for immigration talks.In return for the Democrats’ support, Republican leaders promised to address the fate of young, undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.Here’s how each senator voted and a look at the bipartisan group that reached the deal.The episode exposed a rift between moderate Democrats who are up for re-election this year in states won by Mr. Trump and their more liberal counterparts._____• Turkey’s military offensive against a Kurdish enclave in Syria has put it on a collision course with the United States, a NATO ally.AdvertisementIt is widely assumed in Ankara that the Turkish government received a green light from Russia to launch the offensive, which relies on Moscow’s agreement to open up the airspace to Turkish jets.AdvertisementOne of our senior editors explains the U.S. impasse. “It’s partly Washington’s fault for pursuing an anti-ISIS strategy that set up the Turkish-Kurdish time bomb that is now going off,” he writes.(Meanwhile in Germany, there’s a growing debate about arms shipments to Turkey.)_____• The World Economic Forum in Davos starts today with a sense of optimism because of waning worries about populism and global economic growth. (There’s also plenty of snow.)The conversation there is already dominated by one topic: What will President Trump say? The growing threat of cyberattacks is also on the agenda.While the mood is upbeat, our economic correspondent notes that “those elsewhere on earth can be forgiven for wondering what all this lofty talk has to do with them.”Here’s more of our coverage and the full schedule._____• In spite of all the snow in Davos, our planet is warming.Our analysis of more than 3,800 cities shows that about 88 percent recorded higher-than-normal annual mean temperatures last year. Paris was 2.6 degrees Celsius warmer, Moscow was up 1.9 degrees and Berlin rose 1.4 degrees.(You can enter your city’s name in the interactive article.)_____• Qatar is in the fight of its life.AdvertisementOur correspondent explored how the tiny emirate is dealing with a punishing boycott by its neighbors that is meant to rein in its ambitions.For now, the rich city-state is coping but also discovering that there are some things that money can’t buy. Nothing suggests that the dispute will be resolved anytime soon._____• The Academy Award nominations will be announced today. Here are our film critics’ picks.(Above, a scene from “The Florida Project.”)Latino actors, the minority group that Hollywood excludes the most onscreen, are waiting for their own #OscarsSoWhite moment.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Our tech columnist asks: Is a healthier Facebook just … Instagram?• Britain’s competition regulator provisionally rejected a bid by 21st Century Fox to take control of the broadcaster Sky.• New U.S. regulations to fight money laundering and foreign corruption are set to take effect in May. There’s now a debate on who should pay for the cost of increased transparency.• The Chinese government is considering adopting something that could drastically reshape the world’s second-largest economy: a property tax.• President Trump imposed steep import tariffs on washing machines and solar products.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• In France, strikes by prison guards reflect deep-seated problems. Grievances center on overcrowding in jails, and the newer issue of radicalized inmates. [The New York Times]Advertisement• In Israel,  Vice President Mike Pence of the United States told lawmakers that the new American Embassy would open in Jerusalem in 2019. Arab members of the Israeli Parliament briefly disrupted his speech. [The New York Times]• A Moscow court ordered the closing of a foundation supporting the activities of Aleksei Navalny, Russia’s leading opposition politician. [The New York Times]• Pope Francis, returning from a trip to Latin America, apologized to abuse victims but again expressed doubts about some allegations. [The New York Times]• About 100 women have now recounted sexual abuse by the former U.S.A. Gymnastics team doctor at his sentencing hearing. [The New York Times]• A top court in Spain rejected a prosecutor’s request for a new European arrest warrant for Carles Puigdemont, the former — and perhaps future — leader of Catalonia. [Politico]• George Weah, the former soccer star, was inaugurated as president of Liberia to the cheers of thousands at a stadium in Monrovia, the capital. [The New York Times]• The police in China seized Gui Minhai, a Swedish citizen who had published critical books in Hong Kong, while he was being escorted by Swedish diplomats to a medical exam in Beijing. [The New York Times]Advertisement• SpaceX is preparing for the maiden flight of its new rocket, the Falcon Heavy. Some hope it will soon take astronauts back to the moon. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Tonight, make the best broccoli and Cheddar soup you’ve ever had.• The trick to finishing any task: Slice it up into easily achievable micro-goals, and celebrate small wins.• Keeping friendships afloat doesn’t need to be a huge time commitment.• An American woman, above, evaded airport security in Chicago and flew to London without a passport or a ticket. It was her third time successfully sneaking onto flights since 2014.• A shocker at the Australian Open: Hyeon Chung, a 21-year-old South Korean, defeated his boyhood idol, Novak Djokovic, the six-time champion. Check here for full event coverage.• French artists have asked the city of Paris to not install a sculpture donated by the American artist Jeff Koons. They say his memorial to victims of terrorist attacks amounted to product placement.• “I’ll Drink to That” has become an indispensable podcast for wine lovers, including our wine critic.• Meet Mark Epstein, a psychotherapist who explains how Buddhism can enrich Western psychology.“No one really understands emptiness or ‘no-self’ the way they might,” he said.Advertisement“Remember the Maine!” was the rallying cry of the Spanish-American War. Many North Americans surely remember the Alamo. But has the world forgotten the U.S.S. Pueblo?On this day in 1968, the Pueblo, a lightly armed Navy intelligence ship, was attacked and seized by North Korean patrol boats. Its crew of 83 servicemen was taken to Pyongyang and charged as spies. Washington denounced the seizure, but could do little: It soon became a tense Cold War standoff.A Times editorial called the attack “humiliating,” and a prisoner drama — marked by fraught negotiations, forced confessions and propaganda ploys — dragged on for 11 months. Here’s more about the Pueblo incident.The Americans told of beatings, torture and deprivation, but they still found ways to get back at their captors. They slipped outrageous puns into self-written confessions, such as this one by the ship’s commander, and surreptitiously raised their middle fingers in films and photographs. (The sailors said it was the Hawaiian good luck salute.)In the end, Washington reluctantly apologized, and the Pueblo crew was home in time for Christmas. The Pueblo itself is still in Pyongyang, where it’s a tourist attraction at the Victorious War Museum.Charles McDermid contributed reporting._____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Restaurant Review By                     
 PETE WELLS
 
JAN. 23, 2018

CreditDaniel Krieger for The New York Times        Successful fast food restaurants have to be clean, efficient and consistent. As far as I can tell, though, it’s never been necessary for the people who run them to care about food. How would you even tell? It would be like watching a porn film to assess the work of the dialect coach.Mark Ladner was the chef at Del Posto for a decade, steering it to a four-star review from The New York Times in 2010, and at Lupa for five years before that. Leaving all that behind, in October he opened Pasta Flyer, a restaurant in Greenwich Village where pasta in a compostable sugar-cane-fiber bowl costs between $7 and $8.75 and is cooked in less than a minute while you watch.If you tasted the fusilli with pesto, say, or the fettuccine Alfredo, and didn’t know Mr. Ladner’s history, you probably wouldn’t guess that it had been made by one of the city’s greatest pasta cooks. But you’d be able to tell in a second that it was made by somebody who cared about food.The texture is the first thing most cheap pasta places screw up. Pasta Flyer doesn’t screw it up. The noodles are firm and chewy, with a happy little bounce. Partly this is because they’re not overcooked, but Mr. Ladner is also buying excellent dry pasta from Italy. It’s similar to the imported stuff I like to buy when I cook at home, which costs almost as much by the pound as a bowl does at Pasta Flyer. The rigatoni is made with whole grain and the penne is gluten free; they’re both as supple and smooth as the three shapes made from semolina.AdvertisementThe sauces — which can be matched with any pasta — are pesto, beef ragù, Alfredo and marinara, with or without meatballs. You might see that and say, “Ah, classics.” Or you might say, “sounds kind of basic?”, with a rising inflection signifying that “basic” is not a compliment. Your response will mirror your attitude toward Pasta Flyer as a whole.I’m in the classic group. The basil pesto looks a little too glossy, more purée than paste, but it has the advantage of insinuating itself all over the pasta (fusilli is the default shape) and it still tastes like aged cheese and toasted pine nuts. The marinara is lively on its own and an agreeable partner for the meatballs, which are of the fine-ground, spicy, sausagelike school.AdvertisementThe ragù is lovely, if a little pale and lean. The Alfredo sauce, sweetly dripping from the fettuccine like rain from a leaf, hit me like a prescription opiate that had been specifically engineered for my opiate receptors. It’s been a long time since I’d had fettuccine Alfredo.Those who expect ingenuity from Mr. Ladner should be happy with the garlic dots. Everybody should be happy with the garlic dots, little fried puffs of choux pastry brushed with garlic butter. Like the browned slices of lasagna that you can eat with your fingers, they’re street-fair food from a more advanced civilization. A few small vegetable sides, like a sweet-and-sour fried cauliflower with golden raisins, can be had, along with crisp little chopped salads. That’s about it. Dessert, in the form of tiramisù cannoli, will shuffle onstage later this week.Once your pasta is sauced and you’ve helped yourself to a fork, a napkin and a tray, you settle the tab — paying is the slowest part of the whole procedure — and look for a table. These were plentiful on my three visits, particularly at night. I learned to avoid the seats directly under the satellite dish that hangs from the ceiling and echoes conversations held under it, disconcertingly. It’s an artifact of Mr. Ladner’s fixation on flying saucers, also seen in the door-handle design and in the doctoring of a blown-up photograph of the Roman Forum that covers one wall.In other words, Pasta Flyer is not where you take somebody you need to impress. For some reason, this is how our culture defines success for chefs: by how well their food performs the task of being impressive to a date, an employer or a fan of restaurant dining.Mr. Ladner, though, is using his skill, knowledge and connections not to make special-occasion fireworks but to make ordinary food that many people can afford. Pasta Flyer isn’t spectacular, but it’s still a major achievement. I’ve eaten a lot of supposedly cheap pasta, and it’s never as good as what Mr. Ladner is serving.There’s precedent for devoting specialized attention to the problems of everyday living among architects and industrial designers, who may toggle between showpiece commissions and small, affordable houses. Lately the idea has begun to occur to chefs, including Daniel Patterson and Roy Choi in California, and Mr. Ladner’s old pastry chef, Brooks Headley.AdvertisementDo enough people in Greenwich Village want $8 rigatoni to make Pasta Flyer a success? In a way, the location would work better if it didn’t have to bear the weight of being the only one in town. As a solitary prototype, the restaurant has an odd, expectant air, as if it’s ready for a crowd that hasn’t shown up.
CreditDaniel Krieger for The New York Times        Nick Anderer and Danny Meyer have been pursuing similar goals in the pizza universe. Martina, which opened in the East Village in the fall, is the less expensive younger sibling to Marta, their Roman pizzeria in NoMad. The prices run from $7.50 to $11.50 for a pizza that will serve one not-too-hungry person. Martina is supposed to be fast, too, although that hasn’t always been my experience. One night my pizza arrived 19 minutes after I’d ordered it — hardly a land-speed record.You do save some time ordering and paying at Martina’s counter, but speed isn’t the real selling point. Martina’s charm is that it is a neighborhood place where nothing is a big deal, but where attention has been paid to all the little deals.If the idea of fagioli al fiasco with pizza appeals to you, the ones at Martina are excellent, as are the arancini, cylindrical fritters of creamy rice cooked with tomatoes. The wine list is a thumbnail version of Marta’s, but the few wines are good ones; as at Marta, you’re encouraged to drink sparkling wine in full or half bottles, kept here in an open refrigerator case facing the dining room.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The pizza is in the style of Roman neighborhood joints. The crusts are flat, extremely thin, pale and crisp, but not crunchy. They’re softer than the ones at Marta, which snap like crackers. The crust is merely a vehicle; what interest these pies hold is entirely in their toppings. Covered with mushrooms, say, or pork sausage with broccoli rabe, or grated cheese and shaved brussels sprouts, they can be very good. But the simple margherita is a bore.For dessert, there’s vanilla soft-serve, either over espresso or under simple toppings like olive oil, sea salt, candied hazelnuts or chocolate sauce. Simple as it is, it helps make Martina into a restaurant instead of a pit stop. (Mr. Ladner might take notes here.)Neither Martina nor Pasta Flyer is trying to be a thrill ride. But finding a quick, cheap meal that betrays signs of actual care can be a thrill of its own.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.510 Avenue of the Americas(West 14th Street)Greenwich Villagepastaflyer.comAtmosphere A counter-service fast food restaurant with a somewhat grandly proportioned dining area up above the street. Service is fast but a little inefficient; ordered items don’t automatically appear.Sound Low.Menu singlepage.com/pasta-flyerRecommended Dishes All pasta; fried cauliflower; baked eggplant parmigiano; garlic dots. Prices are $2 to $8.75. Cash not accepted.Drinks and Wine One white, one red, one sparkling, all $7.Price $ (inexpensive)Open Daily for lunch and dinner.Reservations Not accepted.Wheelchair Access An elevator from the sidewalk level serves the dining room and accessible restrooms.
What the Stars Mean
            Ratings range from zero to four stars. Zero is poor, fair or satisfactory. One star, good. Two stars, very good. Three stars, excellent. Four stars, extraordinary.
        
                This information was last updated: Jan. 25, 2018 198 East 11th Street(Third Avenue)East Village646-747-6635martinapizzeria.comAtmosphere A neighborhood pizzeria so purposefully casual you wonder if the framed photos on the wall are crooked because they were hung that way. Counter service only, but more helpful than many restaurants with full table service.Sound Moderate.Menu singlepage.com/martina-7Recommended Dishes Meatball sub; suppli; white beans; sausage pizza; salame pizza; brussels sprout pizza with grated cheese; gelato; affogato. Prices are $4 to $11.50.Drinks and Wine A brief list of beer and wine, including some half-bottles of Champagne.Price $ (inexpensive)Open Daily for lunch and dinner.Reservations Not AcceptedWheelchair Access Dining room and an accessible restroom are on the sidewalk level.
What the Stars Mean
            Ratings range from zero to four stars. Zero is poor, fair or satisfactory. One star, good. Two stars, very good. Three stars, excellent. Four stars, extraordinary.
        
                This information was last updated: Jan. 25, 2018 EMAIL petewells@nytimes.com. And follow Pete Wells on Twitter: @pete_wells.A version of this review appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Fast Food Handled With Care.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Jonathan WolfeGood morning on this damp Monday.Here in New York, everyone’s a critic. And Restaurant Week, kicking off today and running through Feb. 9, offers amateur food critics their biannual chance to evaluate three-course lunches ($29) or dinners ($42) at hundreds of restaurants across the city.But to be a professional restaurant reviewer, you need more than a reservation and a hot take on udon noodles. The job demands a hearty appetite, an iron stomach, and a touch of spycraft to avoid fawning treatment from staff and chefs.The New Yorker has a new food critic, Hannah Goldfield. We asked her and Pete Wells, The New York Times’s restaurant critic, for the inside scoop on writing about food for a living. Their responses are lightly condensed.How do you choose what to order?Mr. Wells resists the “cliché of foodie insiderism” to order the “craziest thing on the menu.” He lets his guests choose many of the plates: “I’m really interested in the item in the menu that’s written in a way that it sings out to people.”Ms. Goldfield: “When I go to a restaurant for the first time I will often start with what grabs my eye as being unusual. I also try to put myself in the head of any other diner: Is there something that’s just going to be a crowd-pleaser?”What’s it like going out to dinner with you?Mr. Wells: “It can be like a job. I tell you what to do, and I may end up eating at strange hours in weird corners of the city. It doesn’t work out that well to have people who think they’re just going out for fun.”Ms. Goldfield: “I really need to focus on the food and on my surroundings. Sometimes I’ll just check out of the conversation, which can drive people crazy.”You make reservations under different names. Does that matter, when anyone can Google you and see what you look like?Mr. Wells:  “The real merit in anonymous reviewing is showing up as a regular civilian even if they recognize you at the door, so that you’re not telegraphing that you expect to be treated as a representative of the newspaper.”Ms. Goldfield:  “I think the idea of special treatment for a critic is, to some degree, a thing of the past. Service has just gotten better across the board. Part of that is an emphasis on hospitality and part is also symptomatic of the Yelp era.”What makes a good meal?Mr. Wells: “The most satisfying meals that I have are the ones that the chef isn’t trying to make a huge impression but is just trying to make the food really good. You would think that making the food really good is the baseline, but beyond that a lot of ego and flag planting can creep in and it’s not always to the benefit of the diner.”Ms. Goldfield: “Really good, really unpretentious cooking. I’m averse to preciousness. I like to feel like what I’m eating looks like food and marries flavors in a thoughtful rather than showy way.”Current favorite food?Mr. Wells: “Things with crust, like tarts and savory pies.”Ms. Goldfield: “I love mapo tofu, but there’s almost nothing I find so satisfying as really good bread and butter.”Here’s what else is happening:By the time you’re done commuting today, a meal at a cozy, candlelit restaurant will really hit the spot.It could rain throughout the day and we’re not expecting much in the way of sun. The high is 49.The gloomy skies continue tomorrow when the rain really picks up.• State and federal officials reached a deal to reopen the Statue of Liberty, a day after the federal government shutdown forced it to close. [New York Times]• M.T.A. officials reportedly pressured staff members to inflate the number of subway delays that could be attributed to power issues, which led Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to blame Con Edison for service failures. [New York Times]• The Sunshine Cinema has closed. The cultural mainstay on the Lower East Side was sold last year to New York City developers with plans to demolish it. [New York Times]• Joseph Percoco, a close adviser to Governor Cuomo who is accused of taking bribes in return for official actions that helped companies receive hundreds of millions of dollars in state contracts, will stand trial. [New York Times]• Workers known as “violence interrupters” identify and de-escalate social media conflicts before they erupt into violence on the street. [New York Times]• A recent protest and counterprotest of congestion pricing offered a preview of what is likely to be an intense debate over the plan to ease gridlock and raise funds to help the subway system. [New York Times]• The typical New Jersey resident in 2018 is a 39 year-old woman of Italian descent. She lives in Middlesex County and makes about $38,000 a year, according to a new survey. [NJ.com]• A Brooklyn lawmaker wants to toughen New York’s drunken driving laws by lowering the state’s legal blood-alcohol limit for drinking and driving. [CBS New York]• A 26-year-old Harlem resident, Genesis Suero, was crowned Miss New York 2018 after beating out a group of 133 contestants. [New York Post]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Only Trying to Help””• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• The new exhibition “Identity” collects fiber artworks that explore imagery of the African diaspora at the Arsenal Gallery in Central Park. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. [Free]• The world’s top-ranked squash players compete at The J.P. Morgan Tournament of Champions in Grand Central Terminal. Various times beginning at 11 a.m. [$10]• A screening of “Crossing Delancey” at the Seward Park Library in Lower Manhattan. 6:15 p.m. [Free]• The playwrights Alesha Harris and Jackie Sibblies Drury discuss their upcoming productions with the playwright Branden Jacobs-Jenkins at the Schomburg Center in Harlem. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• Islanders at Coyotes, 9 p.m. (MSG+). Devils host Red Wings, 7 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.Good news for city cyclists: Manhattan’s first protected crosstown bike lanes will be installed this year.The lanes, nestled between the sidewalk curb and a row of cars, will run along 26th and 29th Streets.The city is also planning other crosstown bike lanes, after cycling fatalities increased from 18 to 23 last year.New York currently has 1,180 miles of bike lanes, with more on the way, but not everyone is happy with the increase.Some residents have complained about losing parking spaces to lanes and point out bicyclists’ bad behavior — like riding in the wrong direction and blowing red lights — and have pushed back against additional lanes.We’d like to know what you think about bike lanes in your neighborhood. Would you like to see more or fewer? Why?Let us know in the comments or send an email at nytoday@nytimes.com. Please include your full name, age and the neighborhood or city in which you live. We may include your response in an upcoming New York Today column.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.AdvertisementBy MATT FLEGENHEIMERJAN. 21, 2018
GREENVILLE, S.C. — One by one, the patrons lurched to the stage’s edge, summoned by the siren song of stale arena rock and toplessness — a sea of large men with small bills and slight smiles, plainly convinced that America has been plenty great for some time now.It was a special kind of Saturday, and the cover charge showed: $20 at the door, double the usual, though far less than the reported executive rate.“Pigs get fat. Hogs get slaughtered,” said Jay Levy, the Trophy Club’s owner, explaining the relative bargain for guests. “I’ve got to take care of my people. I’ll take advantage of the situation, but not my people.”His people, on this evening, were a peculiar lot: regulars, newcomers and, at present, the world’s most important porn star — with her presidential ties and a reported six-figure reason not to confirm them — traveling for now without a proper assistant.Advertisement“Nobody wants to be seen with me right now,” the performer, known as Stormy Daniels, said in a brief interview, laughing softly behind an assemblage of nude pictures of herself. The line at her table belied the point.AdvertisementAnd so it was — on the anniversary of the inauguration; with a government shutdown consuming the capital; with cities across the country, including this one, hosting women’s rallies condemning President Trump as an emblem of misogyny — that this national moment delivered a glut of customers, journalists and a notable adult film actress to a perhaps inevitable fate.The music came on. The clothes came off. And an airport strip club claimed its piece of the American presidency.“Waaa-ooooooh!” came the cry from a crowd of a couple hundred or so as the show began.Waaa-ooooooh.Every White House leads a trail to venues strange and varied: global summits, hardscrabble swing-state spots, a golf course in South Florida.On Saturday, the Trophy Club was almost certainly making its executive debut. One night only.Better known as Stephanie Clifford to some offstage, the 38-year-old headliner was setting off on what is being called the “Making America Horny Again Tour,” capitalizing on her spin through a Trump news cycle.According to The Wall Street Journal, Ms. Clifford was paid $130,000 in hush money shortly before the 2016 election to conceal a past relationship with Mr. Trump. In a 2011 interview with In Touch magazine, made public in recent days, Ms. Clifford is quoted as saying that she and Mr. Trump had the sexual encounter in 2006 — months after Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, gave birth to their son.A lawyer for Mr. Trump, Michael D. Cohen, whom The Journal identified as the person who helped arrange the payment, said in an email earlier this month that Mr. Trump “vehemently denies any such occurrence.”AdvertisementPressed on Saturday, Ms. Clifford responded to any question about Mr. Trump with a wordless grin and a shaking head.Most attendees did not much care, subsisting in the club’s smoky kaleidoscope of flesh. Women swaggered by in tights, leatherette and heels that could dent metal, brushing past a vending machine that spits cigarettes. Bartenders shooed too-stingy visitors from the good seats, returning $15 in singles for a $5 drink order paid with a 20, and mouthing the lyrics to “Super Freak.”Dancers pawed playfully at their prey, flipping their hair at patrons like a fishing line.“All right — one,” a member of the news media relented eventually, disappearing for a few minutes as a dancer led him to a back room. She returned a short while later to flip her hair at the other scribes.Other requests were less typical of the place. Suzanne Coe, 52, a local pub owner, hoped Ms. Clifford might sign her copy of “Fire and Fury,” by Michael Wolff, the lacerating, if error-specked, insider account of the Trump administration.A man in a United States Navy cap said he had flown in from Houston, where he had seen Ms. Clifford perform previously. (Many customers were disinclined to give their names because, well, they were spending their Saturday night at a strip club by the airport.)Above the bar, festooned with balloons of red, white and blue, one TV was tuned to a Trump-themed panel on CNN, as a government shutdown clock ticked in the bottom right corner. Beside the stage, the president’s face looked out from an old picture, mugging beside Ms. Clifford.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“HE SAW HER LIVE,” an ad for the event read, using the same image. “YOU CAN TOO!”The region is Trump Country, in a state he carried by 14 points, in a county he won by 25. But even among those who might be expected to tut-tut an extramarital encounter and covert payment by the future president, the story of Ms. Clifford has struggled to break through entirely in recent days.Shutdown. Russia. North Korea. A porn star hardly rates.“This is just a news story. I don’t know if it’s accurate,” the Rev. Franklin Graham, a Trump supporter, told MSNBC.But broadly, he allowed, “our country has got a sin problem.”At the women’s rally in downtown Greenville hours before the show, Ms. Clifford’s appearance registered only slightly. “Trump Unfaithful to Wives and Country,” a sign read, beside the picture of the two.AdvertisementSome had higher-order concerns. “We’d rather not have a nuclear war,” said June Baswell, 69, wearing a pink hat with a pin that read, “Y’all means all.” “I’d rather die some other way.”Mr. Levy, the club owner, with slicked hair and a thick goatee, said his aim was entirely apolitical. “I’m strictly ‘How can I get lightning in a bottle?’” he said.He read the Journal article about Ms. Clifford, whom he said he had known before, and was compelled to reach out, inviting her once more to the bar he calls “Cheers with breasts.”Mr. Levy declined to say what he was paying her, though financial considerations dotted the club’s Facebook page during the week.“How much to get in?” one man asked.“$130,000,” a woman replied.Ms. Clifford said she was receiving her “normal amount, I guess.” She performed two shows, elaborate burlesque acts around 11 p.m. and 1 a.m., lit in part by a disco ball large enough to crush three men if it shook loose from its bearings. Attendance flagged a bit by late in the night.In between, Ms. Clifford, who said she had not danced since the summer, mingled with well-wishers, photo-seekers and, if they approached, reporters.“Imagine coming back when you’re the most insecure,” she said of her return. “It’s the only time I’ve ever gone onstage and was actually scared.”She was asked what it had been like to be Stormy Daniels over the past week. “Stressful,” she said. “And amusing.”Next in line, a man in a cap was waiting, sliding behind her for a picture. Ms. Clifford dutifully removed her top. The man grabbed at her front, tentatively at first. The brim of his star-spangled hat, reading “Make America Great Again,” nearly grazed her blonde hair.AdvertisementMs. Clifford smiled again, beside a well-stocked jug of tips.Our country has got a sin problem. And a sense of humor.A version of this article appears in print on January 22, 2018, on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: With a Porn Star on Stage, a Strip Club and a Presidency Meet.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MOTOKO RICH and SETH BERKMANJAN. 22, 2018
TOKYO — South Korea’s scrappy women’s ice hockey team has worked hard to earn an underdog’s right to challenge bigger, more experienced opponents at the Winter Olympics starting next month in Pyeongchang.But after years of effort to build unity among the players, the South Korean team is frustrated at suddenly being made a pawn in a geopolitical drama: In a grand gesture of sports diplomacy, the North and South Korean governments agreed last week to field a joint women’s ice hockey team at the Winter Games.While the South Korean government views the inter-Korean team as a steppingstone to talks that could slow down the North’s nuclear program, the South Korean players say they are dismayed by the last-minute decision to insert North Korean players onto the team roster.“All of us had to give up something in our lives, but we’ve been striving toward one goal: to play in the Olympics,” starting goalie Shin So-jung told the newspaper Chosun Ilbo on Friday. “We could bear it all because we’re proud to represent our country. That’s why we feel so devastated now.”AdvertisementThe women’s ice hockey squad will be the first combined Korean team to appear at an Olympics. The last time athletes from both North and South Korea played on the same team was during an international table-tennis championship and a youth soccer tournament in 1991.AdvertisementNorth and South Korea also reached an agreement last Wednesday for their athletes to march together under one flag at the opening ceremony on Feb. 9.With the official announcement on Saturday that 12 North Korean players would be added to the Olympic women’s team roster, with three of them mandated to dress for each game, some of the South Korean athletes fear losing playing time or being benched for some games.“It’s hard because the players have earned their spots, and they think they deserve to go to the Olympics,” the women’s coach, Sarah Murray, told the South Korean news media last week. “The players said in June not to make them a political statement and that they just want to play the game,” Ms. Murray added. “I agreed with them.”Within South Korea, criticism of the government’s decision to field an inter-Korean team has undermined the approval ratings of President Moon Jae-in, who has vocally supported the North’s inclusion in hockey.According to the most recent Gallup poll, his rating has dropped to 67 percent, its lowest mark in 16 weeks. Polls taken in South Korea within the last week have also shown that many respondents disagree with the decision to add North Koreans to the roster.On social media and in petitions filed with the presidential Blue House, South Koreans have shown sympathy for the South Korean hockey players. “I don’t think the athletes’ lives should be sacrificed for an event,” wrote one Facebook user, Jaeeok Kim. One petition opposing the inter-Korean team, submitted on the Blue House website, drew more than 50,000 signatures.“Can abstract values like ‘peace’ and ‘unification’ get ahead of individual freedom?” one commenter on the petition wrote. “South Korea is a free liberal country, not a socialist country. I hope the government will not force individual sacrifice.”AdvertisementLee Min-ji, a player who lost a spot on the Olympic roster, posted — and then later took down — a long statement on Instagram, lamenting the decision to add North Koreans to the team as “extremely unfortunate.”“How can one think that the players would take this situation in a good mood,” Ms. Lee wrote, “even when anyone can become such a sacrificed player?”Most of the players are still teenagers, and several have battled injuries and endured long commutes and punishing training along with the tormenting embarrassment of blowout losses.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.With the South Korean team ranked 22nd in the world, many around the team believe the decision to unite with North Korean players is rooted in disrespect. The men’s team was never considered for integration.Last week, South Korea’s prime minister, Lee Nak-yeon, drew sharp ire when he said that the women’s team was not a medal contender anyway, implying that its athletic unity could be sacrificed for political unity. He later apologized for the comments.Some analysts said the decision was simply sexist. “There is a degree of gendered notion that women’s sports aren’t as important and that they can be used in this soft cultural approach,” said Benjamin Young, a Ph.D. candidate in modern Korean history at George Washington University. “The South Korean government is not having two inter-Korean hockey teams, male and female. They are kind of making explicit their gender bias known. I can certainly understand why the team players, coaches and public are upset.”Analysts said young South Koreans in particular objected to the last-minute insertion of North Korean players for political reasons as fundamentally unfair.“During the campaign for the 19th presidential election, President Moon Jae-in stressed, ‘Opportunity will be fair; the process will be fixed and the result just,’ ” a commenter wrote on a petition submitted to the Blue House. “But the government that took away our athletes’ opportunity; that ignored the preparation process, is this really just?”Lee Byuntae, a professor of information systems and economics at Kaist College of Business in Seoul, said Mr. Moon was particularly vulnerable to such criticism since he was elected on the back of the impeachment of President Park Guen-hye last spring. She was ousted after widespread protests against politically motivated favoritism.AdvertisementIn the case of the presidential protests, critics initially balked at corruption when they learned that the daughter of a longtime confidante of Ms. Park had illegally enrolled in a prestigious university using her mother’s connections to force the university to accept her despite poor qualifications.In the case of the ice hockey team, Professor Lee said, the government is favoring North Korean players in order to make a political statement. “The government high officers, without any consultation with the hockey players, decided they will form this united team,” he said.South Korea’s sports minister, Do Jong-hwan, initially raised the idea of a joint team last June, which bothered players then.“They didn’t want it to happen,” said Marissa Brandt, a player who was born in South Korea and adopted by a family in Minnesota, in an interview last October. Ms. Brandt, who said she never “felt Korean” growing up, is an assistant captain who proudly wears her Korean name on her jersey.“Every girl on this team has put in so much time and effort, and it would be tough to see any of us get cut or have to give up a spot to someone else,” Ms. Brandt said. “We are such a tight-knit team, and we want to stick together.”Some analysts said the opportunity to create a sense of unity and advance a peace process was more important than the team’s disappointment.“The public hoopla on how we are sacrificing the young Korean women’s Olympic dreams, I think, is another political statement with specific aims to undermine the fact that there is going to be some peace process going on with the Pyeongchang Olympics,” said Chung Yong-chul, a professor of sports psychology in the Graduate School of Education at Sogang University in Seoul. “All the people talking about how unfair it is for them to give up their spot, they didn’t even know what ice hockey was before this issue came up.”For now, the South Korean teammates are putting in their last practices before the Games begin next month. The slogan on their black warm-up shirts reads: “Make Korea Proud.”Su-hyun Lee contributed reporting from Seoul.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: South Koreans Feel Used In the Name Of Unity.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAVID E. SANGERJAN. 21, 2018
WASHINGTON — When the “Wannacry” ransomware attack spread across Britain, Japan Russia, Taiwan and places in between last May, it took only a few days for private firms that looked at the code to come to some pretty quick conclusions. The attack almost certainly came from North Korea. The North Koreans almost certainly used computer code that had leaked from the inner sanctum of the National Security Agency. And the ransomware part was a scam: If you paid off the hackers, your data still wasn’t restored.Yet it took until October for the British government to identify North Korea as the culprit in an attack that paralyzed its health care system for a few days, and until mid-December for the Trump administration, in a presentation at the White House, to reach that same conclusion.So what was the penalty for the government in Pyongyang for unleashing a devastating cyberattack? There was none. Nothing. Not even the kind of weak economic sanctions that the Obama administration imposed on the North three years before for its attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment.“President Trump has used just about every lever you can use, short of starving the people of North Korea, to change their behavior,” Mr. Trump’s Homeland Security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert, said when he made the “name and shame” announcement blaming the North. “So we don’t have a lot of room left here to apply pressure.”AdvertisementSecuring the world against cyberattacks — from nations, criminal groups, vandals and teenagers — will be on the agenda when many of the world’s top leaders gather at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this week. As usual, there is a flurry of reports, and entrepreneurs will declare they have technological solutions at hand. But the fact remains that the major powers of the world have been unable to come up with a viable means of deterring the most damaging attacks. It still takes too long to formally identify the culprits, and the responses, as Mr. Bossert indicated, are insufficient.AdvertisementEfforts to establish “norms of behavior” got a promising start, but are now falling apart. No one can even agree on when an act of aggression in cyberspace amounts to an act of war. The Pentagon, in its first nuclear strategy review since President Trump took office, is even proposing to use the threat of unleashing nuclear weapons against a country or group that delivered a devastating cyberattack against the critical infrastructure of the United States or its allies. But that doesn’t help with the problem of everyday attacks.The most talented state sponsors of attacks — mostly Russia, China, Iran and North Korea — have carefully calibrated their operations in cyberspace to achieve their strategic aims while avoiding a real shooting war. So far they have succeeded. While there have been indictments of Iranian and Chinese hackers in major strikes on the United States, they have never seen the inside of an American courtroom.North Korea has been a case study in how a nation learns to make use of its cyberweapons for disruption, revenge or profit, without fear of serious retaliation. It has learned how to station hackers around the world — in China, Malaysia, Thailand and elsewhere — and has gotten away with bolder and bolder attacks, from Wannacry to its raid on Bangladesh’s central bank, which nearly resulted in the theft of a billion dollars. (The transfers were halted after $81 million had passed through the Swift system, the international clearinghouse for transactions, after someone at the New York Fed discovered a spelling error — the word “fandation” for “foundation” — and stopped the heist. )As James Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International Studies put it recently, “North Korea is both cautious and cunning in its use of force, including cyberattack.” But he added: “The North has been successful only against poorly protected targets, of which there are many, suggesting that there is a relatively low ceiling for its cyberattack capabilities.”In fact, the explosion of state-sponsored, sophisticated cyberattacks over the past seven or eight years has been fueled, in large part, by the expansion of poorly protected targets. Yes, banks and major utilities have, for the large part, tightened their defenses, and tens of billions of dollars have been made by companies promising all kinds of cyber protections, from the most basic programs loaded on your laptop to sophisticated systems designed to anticipate future action, or watch for variations in the normal behavior of users.But none of that has prevented cyberspace from becoming what President Barack Obama termed the “Wild, Wild West,” a territory of anarchy, where adversaries take free shots at one another. In the past five years, these attacks have become the cheapest way for nations to undercut one another in the name of bigger strategic goals.Yet the world has been unable to decide what constitutes fair game, and what should be off limits. For years officials talked about their fear of a “cyber Pearl Harbor,” a devastating strike against the power grid that would turn out the lights from Boston to Washington, or London to Rome. That has not happened, save for limited strikes in Ukraine, widely attributed to Russian hackers, that seemed intended to send a message that they could attack critical infrastructure at any time. Countries have sensed what would happen if they went too far.AdvertisementInstead, cyberattacks have taken a far more subtle turn. The Russian-led attacks on the 2016 American election — and similar efforts in France and Germany last year — are prime examples. While United Nations experts had been struggling to come up with “norms of behavior” in cyberspace, a consensus about what was off-limits — like attacks on power grids or safety systems, for example — few were thinking about the use of the technology to influence elections.In fact, the election systems in the United States — the foundation of American democracy — were never on the list of “critical infrastructure” until Mr. Obama’s Homeland Security secretary, Jeh Johnson, added them in the last days of the administration. By then it was too late.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Infrastructure is only part of the problem. The evidence that has poured out of the United States after more than a year of congressional investigations has left no doubt that Russian hackers — working largely on behalf of two of Moscow’s spy services, the SVR and the GRU — did far more than use cyber tools to break into the Democratic National Committee and the accounts of key players in Hillary Clinton’s campaign.The sophisticated use of “bots” to target key demographic groups with Twitter messages, Facebook ads and just ordinary-looking social media exchanges made it clear that we have entered a new world, in which states marry some of the oldest propaganda techniques with the newest ways to disseminate a divisive message.Yet thinking about how to regulate that kind of activity is tying the West in knots. President Emmanuel Macron in France is proposing that government authorities be able to take down “fake news” during elections, declaring in his New Year’s speech that “if we want to protect liberal democracies, we must be strong and have clear rules.”Yet those rules clearly could not survive in the United States, where First Amendment protections would prohibit the government from stepping in and declaring what is fake and what is not.President Trump’s own declarations about what constitutes “fake news” — including articles about the Russian election activity — underscore the dangers of putting that power into government hands.There are other complications. After the election hacks in the United States, many called for “real identities” on the internet, so the world would know exactly who is tweeting or posting. Sensible as it may sound, it would also be a boon to the Russians, the Chinese and any authoritarian government looking to crack down on dissent. In short, the best way to solve the problem of election meddling and anonymous attacks would be a dictator’s dream.There have been a few successes in setting norms of behavior, particularly when it comes to banning child pornography or cracking down on intellectual property theft. But those are the easiest issues on which to agree.AdvertisementThe United States, for example, would never support rules that banned espionage. And what about rules prohibiting the placement of “implants” in foreign computer networks, so that in the future they could monitor activity or plant malware to bring a network down?American and European officials raise the alarm whenever they find such implants in their electrical grids. But they also quietly place them in hundreds of thousands of foreign networks. That is how Presidents Bush and Obama got inside Iran’s nuclear enrichment site at Natanz, with the Stuxnet code.It is a power that the United States and its allies, have no intention of giving up.David E. Sanger is national security correspondent for The New York Times. His forthcoming book is “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage and Fear in the Cyber Age.”A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 2018, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MUJIB MASHAL and FATIMA FAIZIJAN. 21, 2018
A 14-hour gun battle at the Intercontinental Hotel in Afghanistan’s capital left multiple people dead and wounded.KABUL, Afghanistan — The Taliban’s bloody, 14-hour siege on a major hotel in Kabul ended on Sunday, after six assailants terrorized much of the city with explosions and gunfire.The exact number of casualties remained unclear, and the authorities said it might take days to determine the extent of the material damage. Najib Danish, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry, said that 14 foreigners and four Afghans had been killed in the attack, and that 10 others, including six members of the security forces, had been wounded. Local news outlets put the number of dead at 43.The siege capped a violent 24 hours across Afghanistan, where about 50 people were killed in four provinces as the 16-year war continues to spiral more violently, with no tangible signs of a resolution.A guest, Abdul Rauf, 48, said he had run through the halls of the hotel as an armed man was firing and had then taken cover in his room.Advertisement“I don’t know if he was the police or a suicide attacker, but he was shooting,” he said by cellphone while hiding under the bed of his hotel room. “Two rooms were on fire and smoke came into my room. I couldn’t breathe until I broke a window with my chair.”AdvertisementThe attack was the second in eight years at the 200-room Intercontinental Hotel, located on top of a hill. The Afghan carrier Kam Air said that six of its employees from Ukraine were killed, along with two from Venezuela.The airline connects parts of the country where travel by road is increasingly impossible. It flies decrepit planes that sometimes bear the marks of their many previous lives: exit signs in Swahili; emergency instructions in Russian.Kam Air canceled several flights on Sunday, according to Farid Peykar, the company’s vice president, who added that operations would be affected for days to come as the carrier tries to attend to the shock and concern of its staff members.Among the dead were Afghans including Ahmad Farzan, a 34-year-old religious scholar turned peace activist. Mr. Farzan had left his three young daughters in Kandahar to come to Kabul to teach university classes and work at the country’s High Peace Council, a body exploring negotiations with the Taliban.He often appeared as an analyst on local television, and he was critical of the difficult regional dynamics that choke any hopes of Afghan peace. But he had begun the new year with a message of hope, posting on his Facebook page:“Life is beautifulOne day, one hour, one minutewill never return.Then, please, stay away from violenceavoid frustrationsspeak of love.”The Taliban, usually quick to claim attacks, did not issue a statement declaring its responsibility for the assault on the Intercontinental Hotel until 14 hours after the siege began. At least two senior Afghan officials said the country’s intelligence agency had received reports that the Haqqani Network, a particularly brutal arm of the Taliban, had planned the attack.“The attack was carried out by #Pakistan based Haqqani Terrorist Network,” Javid Faisal, a spokesman for the Afghan government’s chief executive, said on Twitter.AdvertisementMr. Danish, the Interior Ministry spokesman, said six assailants armed with grenades and AK-47s had entered the hotel through the kitchen around 9 p.m. on Saturday. Most of the rooms were occupied, with at least 100 guests of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology staying there for a conference.Helicopters and drones circled above the hotel for hours while guests hid inside, many cowering under beds or in toilet stalls. Television footage showed guests trying to climb out of windows with the help of makeshift ropes. The elite forces that arrived at the scene rescued 160 guests, including 41 foreigners.“Our investigation teams are searching and working room by room to find out exact casualties and information,” Mr. Danish said.There was much confusion about when the operation ended. At first, the authorities declared the siege over around 9 a.m., saying all four assailants had been killed. But a New York Times reporter at the scene continued to hear explosions and gunfire, which security officials said was part of a “clearance operation.” When the Interior Ministry later said there had actually been six assailants, it became clear that two had been missed in their initial sweep.“We tried to proceed with caution to avoid harming guests who hid in the rooms and locked the doors against the attackers,” said Maj. Gen. Afzal Aman, commander of the Kabul Garrison, which is responsible for security in the capital.In a room on the second floor of the hotel, Haji Saheb Nazar, 45, an employee of Afghan Telecom, spent the night huddled in a bathroom, afraid to leave. After sunrise, he spoke on his cellphone in a whisper, nearly in tears. “It’s still going on, upstairs and downstairs,” he said. “I don’t know what’s happening.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“My family is so worried about me, and they keep calling me,” he said. “I don’t know what’s going on outside and how many of them are in the hotel. But if they are only four, why can’t police kill or arrest them?”Mukhtar, 50, an Afghan who uses only one name, spent the night on the street outside the hotel, repeatedly calling his 24-year-old son, Zaiurahman, who works inside as a security guard. He got no answer until shortly after sunrise on Sunday.“He said he was safe. I was really happy and cried,” Mukhtar said. “From midnight until now I’ve been waiting here, and now I just want to hug him and kiss him when he comes out.”AdvertisementThis is not the first time a popular hotel has been the target of an attack in a city that is increasingly barricaded, with blast walls that grow ever taller.The Intercontinental was attacked by insurgents in 2011; 21 people were killed, including nine assailants, and many others wounded before the Afghan authorities, with substantial assistance from international military forces, managed to bring an end to the violence.The hotel was once part of the chain of Intercontinental Hotels, but is now government owned.Other hotels have also been targeted. The Serena Hotel, a luxury establishment in Kabul, has been struck three times, including an attack in 2014 that killed nine. In that assault, Taliban gunmen hid small pistols in the soles of their shoes to evade heavy security, then entered the restaurant and killed guests at close range, including a well-known Afghan journalist, his wife and all but one of his children. The events led to an unusual apology for what the Taliban called a “mistake.”In 2015, the Park Palace hotel in downtown Kabul was the site of an attack that killed at least 15 people, including one American.The latest Kabul attack comes amid intensifying violence around the country. In the northern province of Balkh, which has been at the center of a recent political showdown with the central government, at least 18 people were killed in an attack by the Taliban late Saturday, most of them members of a local police militia, officials there said.Nazar Gul Sholgarai, a commander of the local militia, said the men had been lured to a dinner reception where a Taliban infiltrator had paved the way for the attack. He said a delegation had returned with samples of the meat served at the dinner to see if the men had been poisoned before they were shot.“The bodies are still lying there, we haven’t buried them — we are chasing after the Taliban footsteps,” Mr. Sholgarai said. “The Taliban had come on six horses and four donkeys.”Separately, in the western province of Herat, a Toyota Corolla carrying laborers struck a roadside bomb, leaving at least eight dead, said Abdul Ahad Walizada, a spokesman for the province’s police.AdvertisementIn the neighboring province of Farah, the Taliban have been tightening their presence around the provincial capital, Farah City, for weeks. The group has repeatedly staged attacks on the margins of the city, where militants’ efforts to advance are often deterred by  airstrikes.The security forces have suffered heavy casualties in the province over the past month, according to members of the provincial council. Late Saturday, a Taliban roadside bomb killed Col. Gulbahar Mujahid, the province’s deputy police chief, and wounded two of his officers as they were traveling in Humvees during an operation.“The fighting was inside Farah City and it continued the whole night, which make us stay awake and terrified,” said Abdul Rahman, a resident of Farah City. “We thought the Taliban would be all around in the city in the morning, but we found security forces around. The bazaar is not functioning due to last night’s fighting and heavy security presence in the city.”Reporting was contributed by Fahim Abed and Jawad Sukhanyar from Kabul; Najim Rahim from Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan; Taimoor Shah from Kandahar, Afghanistan; Rod Nordland from London; and Andrew Kramer from Moscow.A version of this article appears in print on January 22, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Extended Siege on Afghan Hotel Caps Violent 24 Hours in Region.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By GARDINER HARRISJAN. 19, 2018
WASHINGTON — The United States’ ambassador to Panama resigned. The top envoy to Pakistan was scolded by the government in Islamabad. And American diplomats across Africa have been made to explain President Trump’s vulgar description of their nations.These are disorienting — and some say depressing — times for the country’s diplomatic corps, which was already wilting after a year of Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson’s leadership style and a lackluster department reorganization. Then Mr. Trump derided “shithole” African countries during an immigration debate last week and questioned whether Haitians should be allowed to move to the United States.The blowback was fierce.On Wednesday, more than 80 former ambassadors to African nations over the last several decades sent a letter of protest to Mr. Trump. They said his description undermined American interests across the continent that has the world’s fastest growing population and five of the 10 fastest growing economies.“We hope that you will reassess your views on Africa and its citizens,” the letter pleaded.The Haitian ambassador to the United States was sharper in his criticism. “We felt this was an attack on our dignity as a people and a country, and we’re intending to push back on it,” Paul Altidor, the Haitian envoy, said in a Facebook Live interview with The New York Times on Wednesday.AdvertisementSteve Goldstein, the State Department’s under secretary for public affairs, acknowledged that the president’s remarks had made diplomats’ jobs more difficult.Advertisement“I’ve advised people to keep their heads down and focus on the job at hand,” he said, adding: “It’s not easy.”Historically, few jobs are better than those given to United States ambassadors. Meals come on white tablecloths, maids do the laundry and a car and driver are always waiting to whisk them away to important meetings or glittering parties. They even get the glorious title of plenipotentiary, or all-powerful.Nearly a third of the ambassadors in 168 American embassies worldwide are political appointees — many of whom were big political donors before they were given plush assignments to wealthy countries where they are rarely expected to conduct high-stakes diplomacy.No longer.Woody Johnson, the owner of the New York Jets, landed in August as the ambassador to the Court of St. James’s, the august name for diplomatic missions to the United Kingdom. It is one of the most prestigious posts in the American foreign service, and is as much of a social whirl as a policy conduit between Washington and London. But Mr. Johnson has repeatedly had to hustle over to Britain’s foreign ministry to explain incendiary presidential tweets that have put what both countries have long described as their “special relationship” on the thinnest ice in decades.Peter Hoekstra’s appointment as ambassador to the Netherlands must have seemed a similarly breezy posting for the former Michigan congressman. But days into his stint, he was grilled by Dutch reporters in a confrontation that went viral over his false claim in 2015 that politicians and cars had been burned by Muslims there, which he took days to retract.Pakistan’s foreign office summoned Ambassador David Hale early this year for a dressing down after Mr. Trump threatened in a tweet to cut aid over Islamabad’s “lies & deceit.” And in Panama, Ambassador John Feeley quit last month, saying he no longer could serve under Mr. Trump.Those who have decided to stay are in the awkward position of defending policies that, in some cases, hit close to home.AdvertisementAmbassador Tulinabo S. Mushingi, who serves in Senegal and Guinea-Bissau, was born in the Democratic Republic of Congo and later became a United States citizen. He speaks four languages, has a Ph.D. from Georgetown University and is a highly decorated career foreign service officer. He must now explain Mr. Trump’s insistence that people with similar origins should not be allowed to visit the United States because they would “never go back to their huts” in Africa. Mr. Mushingi did not respond to requests for comment for this article.“I think I can speak for many of my senior colleagues when I say that, while we’ve all faced challenges, what’s different now is that the president’s rhetoric is so disrespectful that we’re losing the respect and relationships that we have spent decades building,” said Dana Shell Smith, who resigned in June as ambassador to Qatar after tweeting her disagreements with the president.Compounding the discontent is a sense of gloom hanging over the State Department that dozens of officials in recent weeks said has been a prime reason that at least 353 foreign service officers quit  between last March and December, with hundreds more considering following them out the door.It is not new, or even all that uncommon, for foreign service officers to disagree with a president. Many opposed President George W. Bush’s decision to invade Iraq in 2003. Others disagreed with President Barack Obama’s passivity in Syria in 2013. But it is not Mr. Trump alone that has inspired the rampant unhappiness across the department.Career diplomats also complain that Mr. Tillerson has paralyzed decision-making, failed to recruit vital leadership, ignores entire continents and surrounds himself with a small cadre of aides instead of talking to department veterans.“I never briefed the secretary and many of my counterparts never briefed him either,” said Patricia Haslach, who served as the acting assistant secretary of economic and business affairs until Nov. 30.Donald Y. Yamamoto, the acting assistant secretary for Africa, said the first time he briefed the secretary was when a conclave of African diplomats came to Washington on Nov. 17.
                On Wednesday, more than 80 former ambassadors to African nations over the last several decades sent a letter of protest to President Trump for his remarks last week when he derided “shithole” African countries during an immigration debate.            Hopes for Mr. Tillerson within the department were once high. The former chief executive of Exxon Mobil was seen as the most impressive of Mr. Trump’s cabinet picks, and his plans for a top-to-bottom departmental reorganization was almost universally seen as needed.Advertisement“I defended him for months,” said Virginia Bennett, the former acting assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor, who retired on Nov. 30 after also never having briefed Mr. Tillerson. “But he has tied the department in knots.”Morale plunged in December when Mr. Tillerson finally revealed the results of his yearlong reorganization effort, which spent about $7 million on consultants. It concluded with a pledge by Mr. Tillerson to fix the department’s turgid email system and improve medical leaves and travel arrangements — bureaucratic problems that underwhelmed many.“Everything he listed we’d already identified as a problem before he arrived, and were working on fixes that he froze to do his reorganization,” said Alex Karagiannis, who retired in November from a senior position in the bureau of human resources. “He made everything worse.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Speculation that Mr. Tillerson would be forced out over his strained relationship with Mr. Trump was so widespread that the secretary called a news conference in October to affirm his support for the president. More recently, Mr. Tillerson has insisted that he will remain in his job through the end of 2018.Mr. Tillerson said this week that he is not warned ahead of time when the president tweets, and that it usually takes him at least an hour to gauge reaction and decide how to respond.“It allows me to begin to think about: ‘How do we take that?’” he said.Reuben E. Brigety II, an ambassador to the African Union during the Obama administration, said it is highly detrimental — and unusual — for the “secretary of state to be alienated both from the president and the professional diplomatic corps at the same time.”“In fact, it’s never happened before,” Mr. Brigety said. “This has to change.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Trying to Defend President Trump’s Derisive Comments, Diplomatically.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By RICHARD SANDOMIRJAN. 19, 2018
Joe Frank, who stretched the boundaries of radio storytelling with mind-bending, absurdist monologues often fueled by his neuroses and his dark view of the world, died on Monday in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79.His wife, Michal Story, said the cause was cancer.Delivered in a measured baritone, Mr. Frank’s monologues — tragic, philosophical and sometimes confessional excursions that trod the line between fact and fiction — brought listeners into unusual territory. Like a dinner party with A-list dictators and serial killers at which Pol Pot and Hitler debate the merits of pleated pants.Or onto a boardwalk with penguins “sitting on benches in outdoor cafes, drinking lattes,” who are attacked by killer whales in a well-planned pincer movement, who are themselves attacked by polar bears “floating toward the shore on icebergs fitted with large sails and small outboard motors.” He concluded: “It’s a massacre. And that’s life. Penguins eaten by killer whales who are devoured by polar bears.”Mr. Frank spent most of his career at KCRW, a public radio station in Santa Monica, Calif., which gave him the freedom to say what he pleased in his monologues and the multicharacter improvised narratives he directed.Advertisement“Whatever occurred to me that I found interesting, I’d just go ahead and do it,” he told The Believer, a literary and culture magazine, in 2013.AdvertisementAnd, with exacting — sometimes maddening — workmanship, Mr. Frank edited and scored his programs as if they were films.Ira Glass, the host of the NPR show “This American Life,” said in a telephone interview that Mr. Frank had been more comparable to movie auteurs from the 1970s than to storytellers like Jean Shepherd and Garrison Keillor. Mr. Frank’s tales, he said, threw listeners “into a gritty world where it won’t all come out so clean and the moral lines won’t be clear. And it will be a little philosophical.”He added, “He was a mind-expanding example of what the medium could be, in all its power, that nobody else was doing.”During one of his shows, Mr. Frank called former girlfriends on the East Coast late in the evening — guaranteeing that he would rouse them from sleep — to sing “I Remember You” to them.“Was that just for me?” one of his former exes asked. Assured that it was, she said, groggily, “That was sweet.”When Terry Gross, the host of NPR’s “Fresh Air,” interviewed Mr. Frank in 1990, she called the encounters with his former lovers “really funny and really cruel.” Mr. Frank said he had felt guilty about waking them and inviting them to sing along with him. But, he said, the show was a hit.“You’re kind of torn between things that may not be very nice but make really extraordinary radio,” he told Ms. Gross.AdvertisementMr. Frank was born Joseph Langermann on Aug. 19, 1938, in Strasbourg, France. His father, Meier, was a Polish-born shoe manufacturer in Nazi Germany, and his mother, the former Friederike Passweg, was a homemaker. The family fled Germany in 1939 and settled in New York City.But Joseph had club feet and needed corrective surgery. His parents’ marriage was deteriorating, as was his father’s health. His father died of kidney failure on the day of one of Joe’s operations.“So when I came home, my mother lied to me and told me that my father had gone to Boston on business,” he told Slate in an interview conducted last summer and published after he died. “I was five and a half.”After his mother remarried, he took his stepfather’s surname.“I think he was plagued by themes of inadequacy and insecurity, and a search for meaning that began in his childhood,” Jennifer Ferro, the general manager of KCRW, said in a phone interview.He attended Hofstra University on Long Island — he said he cheated on the entrance exam — and spent two years at the Iowa Writers’ Workshop but did not get a degree. In his 20s, he learned that he had testicular cancer. It was followed in later years by bladder cancer and two bouts of colon cancer. He also received a kidney transplant and had scoliosis.He taught English and Russian literature and philosophy for 10 years at Dalton, a private school on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, and then promoted musical acts in Massachusetts. Listening to the radio during rides between Manhattan and Northampton made him think about changing careers.“The radio became a real comfort and companion on those drives,” he told LA Weekly in 2008. “I particularly loved listening to baseball because the announcer wouldn’t just say, ‘He hit the ball to third base.’ He’d talk about the history of baseball, the weather, the lives of the different players — it was like being with somebody I liked.”He found work at WBAI, a noncommercial station in Manhattan, as an engineer and host of an overnight show, on which he began to tell stories. They caught the attention of National Public Radio, which hired him to host the weekend edition of “All Things Considered.”AdvertisementHe did not last long at the job; he told Salon in 2000 that it had impeded his ability to pursue existential questions like, “If nature is bred with tooth and claw, is human compassion just an anomaly?” But he managed to produce meticulously produced free-form segments that mesmerized Mr. Glass, who was an intern.“I remember thinking, ‘I don’t understand why this is affecting me this way, but I want to learn how to do this,’ ” Mr. Glass said. “Certain things he did, like the way he holds back information — he tends to throw you into a story in the middle of a dream and in the middle of a plot you have to figure out where you are and learn your way forward.”Mr. Frank was hired by KCRW in 1986. He won a Peabody Award five years later.But he was fired in 2002 in a dispute with the station’s general manager. He then built a website and subscription service and started performing at clubs and theaters. He also wrote short essays, which he posted on Facebook. He returned to KCRW for a few years but left in 2015 when his health began to fail.Ms. Story — who met Mr. Frank during a KCRW pledge drive in which she critiqued his on-air work — is his only survivor.Life, Mr. Frank once said in a monologue, is like being in a restaurant on a first date with a woman you’ve long admired. But “there is a waiting list and the names will be called in alphabetical order — and your name is Zarathustra.”A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: Joe Frank, 79, Spinner of Strange and Vividly Dreamlike Radio Tales.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Annie PfeiferRecently, during a visit to Switzerland, I watched two kids beat each other to a pulp on a crowded playground while their parents looked on. I had to quell every American helicopter parent impulse in my body not to intervene.Surprisingly, playgrounds in Switzerland are lawless zones. Twenty-five years ago, when I moved to Zurich from the United States in the fifth grade, I was mercilessly bullied by my classmates. They changed the indiscriminately terrifying name of the favored playground game “Alle Gegen Alle” (“Everyone Against Everyone”) to “Alle Gegen Annie” (“Everyone Against Annie”). The game consisted of throwing a handball at somebody as hard as humanly possible. The rest of the students jumped at the chance to pummel the newcomer with all their pent-up, prepubescent rage. Frantically, I looked around for assistance, but there was no grown-up in sight.Until then, I had never really known conflict; I had not learned to defend myself. At even a whiff of drama on the playground of my Missouri public school, the monitor would race over with her whistle hanging commandingly around her neck. In contrast, Swiss parents believe that if children learn to resolve their own conflicts early on, they will be more autonomous and confident later in life. According to the author Sara Zaske and others who advocate German parenting models, this laid-back approach was a deliberate move away from the strict child-rearing practices associated with authoritarianism.Eventually, my mother could no longer endure my suffering and, on one fateful day, unbeknown to me, marched to my school to lecture my tormentors. After that, I was left alone, but nobody ever invited me to take part in another birthday party or game of mutual destruction.The presidency of Donald Trump shows me just why it is so important to expose ourselves — especially our children — to conflict. If you examine him through the lens of playground politics, you will recognize Mr. Trump as a thin-skinned bully who seems incapable of stomaching criticism or opposition. At the same time, he postures as a victim, vacillating between venomous outcries at his foes and the desperate need for validation from his fans.The problem with America — Mr. Trump’s playground — is that we’ve developed an insular, conflict-averse culture. The president’s trolling is so effective, in part, because many of us have not learned how to deal with interpersonal conflict, starting with the playground. We must learn to defend ourselves so that when Donald Trump or any other bully taunts us, we can rise to the occasion.Most of us, liberals and conservatives alike, live in well-insulated echo chambers where Rachel Maddow or Sean Hannity deliver more eloquent renditions of our own opinions in hyperbolic form. No wonder the American political system is suffering from an epic communication breakdown. Ensconced in our cocoons, we have lost the ability to talk to people with different views.I was as shocked as many people were when Hillary Clinton lost the 2016 presidential election. As one of my friends mused: “How could Hillary lose? All my Facebook friends voted for her.” This monumental distortion of perspectives has culminated in the Trump administration’s genius postmodern claim that any unfavorable facts are “fake news.” But many liberals woke up on Nov. 9 also declared the election fake news.A few weeks ago, during a play date, my daughter and her best friend were sitting across the table from another 4-year-old, having an after-school snack. The peace was interrupted by my daughter, who noted, “Nina is sitting next to nobody.” A banal observation quickly turned into a nasty refrain that my daughter and her strategically situated friend sang over and over. Nina is sitting next to nobody. Nina is sitting next to nobody.One of the hardest choices parents face is when to intervene in our children’s lives. Each day we are forced to make countless micro decisions that, en masse, add up to a de facto parenting philosophy.My daughter’s taunts sounded so familiar — the trolling of an innocent victim who happened to draw the ire of a powerful, vocal bully. I wanted to let the children learn to deal with conflict on their own terms. But when Nina looked about to cry, I relented: “Guys, please apologize to Nina for hurting her feelings.” It was, after all, America, and I wanted my daughter to have friends.Kids don’t live in a bubble, so why do we try to shelter them from conflict? One of the earliest lessons you learn at school is about the boundless cruelty of other children. And that bullies can win. Yet contrary to these early playground lessons in realpolitik, children are consistently taught to avoid conflict by well-meaning parents, teachers and caregivers because that’s how we want the world to work. We raise our children in gilded playpens, shielding them from criticism and alternative views.Mr. Trump has convinced me to give my daughter some tough love. To expose her to critical opinions, to make her listen to views she might not like or agree with. I don’t want her to lose it when somebody like Donald Trump is elected. More than anything, I want her to be able to defend herself and fight back.I want my daughter to learn to say no confidently and unapologetically. Dealing with conflict is also about standing up for yourself as a woman, whether a man is talking over you at a meeting or trying to engage in unwanted sexual behavior. If we learn early how to have difficult or uncomfortable conversations up front, we don’t need others to fill in the gaps, make our decisions or read our minds. But if we can’t stand up to conflict, we risk becoming the snowflakes that the Donald Trumps and the wagging tongues on the right make us out to be.Finally, I want my daughter to think about the larger world, beyond the echo chamber that narrowly reflects her own experiences and views. I want her to think beyond the “me” in #MeToo. I want her to think about women, but I also want her to think of men, of the poor, minorities and the people who might not be part of the most trendy Instagram hashtag.Because all I’ve heard for the past 18 months is about Donald Trump.Annie Pfeifer is an assistant professor in the department of international literary and cultural studies at Tufts University.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy SCOTT REYBURNJAN. 19, 2018
LONDON — National, or international?As the fault lines deepen between these two ways of thinking in Western democracies, wealthy buyers are facing a similar choice when it comes to acquiring art.The London Art Fair, whose 30th edition opened to V.I.P.s on Tuesday in the Islington district of the British capital, has, in recent years, become best known as a showcase for dealers in “Modern British,” meaning works made by British artists during the 20th century.“I used to bring contemporary, but now the standard of Modern British is higher, so I bring historical pieces,” said Jane England, the Australian-born founder of England & Company, a London dealership that has been exhibiting at the fair since the early 1990s.“Before Frieze, this fair had a different profile,” Ms. England added, referring to the Frieze art fair, which made its debut in 2003 and has come to be regarded as London’s premier international event for new art.AdvertisementFrieze’s pre-eminence denuded the Islington fair of exhibitors such as Annely Juda Fine Art, which now shows at Frieze’s sister fair, Frieze Masters.England & Company was showing a 1946 watercolor by the British surrealist artist Edward Burra (1905-1976) that hadn’t been exhibited for 70 years. Offered on behalf of private collectors, “Landscape with Figures (Birdman Piper and Fisherwoman)” sold right at the start of the event at a price in the region of 200,000 pounds, or about $277,000, according to Ms. England.AdvertisementBurra, known for his watercolors, worked in Harlem, New York, in the 1930s and was influenced by a German Expressionist, George Grosz. The “Landscape with Figures” piece was particularly desirable because it combined the idiosyncratic artist’s favorite motifs of surreal figures and strangely foreboding countryside.The London Art Fair this year featured 131 galleries with most of the higher-value works being offered by Modern British specialists in the central mezzanine level of the venue at the Business Design Center. It was also a predominantly British crowd sipping the free gin and tonics at the private evening view.The London gallery Osborne Samuel, another stalwart of the event, which last year attracted 23,000 visitors, was showing the 1963 abstract “Pierced Vertical” by Paul Feiler, priced, but not sold, at £135,000.“If it were by an American artist, it would have another zero,” said Tania Sutton, a director at Osborne Samuel. The gallery had four confirmed sales at the private view, ranging in price from £10,000 to £35,000, according to Ms. Sutton.Feiler was part of the St. Ives School of artists, based in Cornwall, England, whose works have been popular with modern-minded British art collectors. In November, a similar but smaller abstract by the artist sold for £125,000 at a London auction, according to the Artnet database. That was the highest auction price achieved for the artist since 2008.“A lot of people have accumulated money in this country, they want to buy art and they’re drawn to their own national school of artists,” said Robert Upstone, a private dealer, who was visiting the fair. “They’re undervalued in international terms,” added Mr. Upstone, a former director at the Fine Art Society, a gallery that stopped exhibiting at the London Art Fair in 2010.AdvertisementBy that time, the Islington fair had lost its reputation for being a place where City of London bankers spent their bonuses, according to Ms. Sutton of Osborne Samuel.“It’s a different market now and bonuses are paid differently,” she said. Ms. Sutton did say, however, that Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, visited her gallery’s booth on Tuesday (he didn’t buy anything).Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For the Modern British market to expand significantly, either a lot more British collectors will have to buy more works — which looks problematic with Brexit, or Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, threatening to put a brake on the  economy — or more of the sector’s “undervalued” artists, such as Burra and Feiler, will need to gain wider international recognition. At the moment, such artists are more likely to be siphoned into Impressionist and Modern auctions, as happens with other British artists, like Henry Moore and Barbara Hepworth.In 2016, Sotheby’s enjoyed a bumper £52.3 million year of Modern British art auctions, thanks to an injection of almost £20 million from the David Bowie sale. But prices like the £797,000 given at the Bowie auction for a 1961 abstract by the St. Ives School painter Peter Lanyon haven’t proved transformative. Last year’s Modern British auctions at Sotheby’s were up just 11 percent on 2016, discounting Bowie. Equivalent auctions at Christie’s were up less than 1 percent.At Sotheby’s, American buyers have accounted for about 14 percent of those totals since 2015, the auction house said. A few blue-chip names aside, “Mod Brit” remains, by and large, a British taste.The market for new international contemporary art in London’s galleries has a different dynamic.Stephen Friedman, a London dealer in Mayfair, for example, is showing an exhibition of new paintings by Kehinde Wiley called “In Search of the Miraculous.” Helped by a general surge of interest in African-American artists, and by the recent appointment of Mr. Wiley as the official portraitist of Barack Obama, all 10 of these large allegorical canvases, depicting figures in old-master-inspired seascapes, have sold to selected buyers from the America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, according to Karon Hepburn, a director at the gallery. Prices ranged from $140,000 to $350,000, she said.But again, Britain’s negotiations to leave the European Union are casting a shadow, even over successful dealer shows. Josh Lilley, a dealer based in the Fitzrovia district of London, has transformed his gallery into a garishly colored “Bad Land,” with videos, sculptures and neon pieces that aim to evoke the loneliness of today’s consumer culture.The works in that display are by Alex Da Corte, a Venezuelan-American multimedia artist based in Philadelphia. Mr. Da Corte featured in four museum shows in America and Europe in 2017, giving international collectors the confidence to spend as much as $65,000 on his distinctive neon works.In the case of the Friedman and Lilley exhibitions, gallery prices for the new works were above the current auction highs for both Mr. Wiley and Mr. Da Corte, according to Artnet. But those highs were achieved late last year, suggesting that the resale market for both artists has upward momentum.Advertisement“Brexit makes a difference,” said Mr. Lilley. “Some of my wealthiest clients are spending less time in London and more time in places like Monaco.” But, he added: “The geography isn’t going to change. Any successful person is going to come through London. I’m just going to see them less often in the gallery.”Ms. England, who sold the Burra watercolor, also represents the Chilean artist Cecilia Vicuña. On Jan. 14, England & Company announced on Facebook that it had sold Ms. Vicuña’s 1972 portrait of Karl Marx, from her “Heroes of the Revolution” series, to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York, which confirmed the acquisition in an email.Ms. England recalled that she originally made contact with the Chilean artist when they were both in London in the early 1970s.“In those days, London had a generous creative spirit,” Ms. England said. “It was a place for citizens of the world.”The fear now is that changes like Brexit could damage that spirit, diminishing Britain as a hub — for national and international art.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Susan L. CarruthersThe specter of Russian meddling in a United States presidential election — the fear that the Kremlin may have shaped the way Americans thought and voted — has electrified political life in the United States for the past 18 months. Those who hold the inviolability of electoral processes dear are understandably alarmed by evidence of foreign manipulation.But the level of anxiety surrounding Kremlin interference threatens to exceed the immediate object of concern. A little-remembered episode from the early Cold War may shed light on today’s panic: Americans have a long history of fearing foreign subversion via mental manipulation.In the early 1950s, these concerns reached a new high with the captivity of some 7,000 American P.O.W.s during the Korean War. When a number of downed United States airmen recorded statements on behalf of the People’s Republic of China claiming that they had engaged in germ warfare, many Americans became alarmed. Primed by recent show trials in newly Sovietized Eastern Europe that showed defendants like Hungary’s Cardinal Jozsef Mindszenty parroting confessions to trumped-up charges in a trance-like state, American audiences took the prisoners’ rehearsed mea culpas as yet more evidence of a new Communist triumph: Scientists behind the Iron Curtain had apparently developed techniques that could wipe the mind clean and repattern behavior. Soon, processes of mental corrosion acquired a new and alarming sobriquet: “brainwashing.”American commentators struggled to say exactly how a brain might be washed or whether the spin cycle could be reversed. Some believed that hypnosis or psychotropic drugs were used to induce a trance-like state in American prisoners. Others proposed that Chinese and North Korean Communists, tutored by their Soviet peers, applied Pavlovian techniques to condition the reflexes of their captives, rewarding complicit behavior while punishing deviance. Whether brainwashed P.O.W.s were ideological converts or merely obedient bodies, disciplined by physical punishment, remained a matter of dispute among contemporary observers.But the vagueness of the concept served only to heighten hysteria. “Menticide,” announced the Columbia University psychiatrist Joost Meerloo, was a crime against humanity analogous to — or even worse than — genocide. The conceit spawned an array of nightmare scenarios. The worst of them appeared to be confirmed when 21 American prisoners refused repatriation after an armistice halted the Korean War in July 1953. Since a preference for “Red China” over America seemed inconceivable to many contemporaries, the conclusion was that the men must have been brainwashed. An unequivocal New York Times editorial in January 1954 evinced no doubt whatsoever. The “non-repatriates” offered “living proof that Communist brainwashing does work on some persons,” The Times informed its readers.Fixated on these “turncoat G.I.s,” United States commentators tended to forget that an inordinately greater number of North Korean and Chinese P.O.W.s had refused repatriation to their side. What might have registered as a symbolic victory for the “free world” — 22,000 to 21 — was lost in heated contention over how brainwashing was performed and why Americans had seemingly succumbed en masse.A vast majority of American P.O.W.s who survived captivity did return home — as, eventually, did almost all of the 21 men supposedly lost to brainwashing. But many found themselves suspected as traitors or ideological termites, sent back by their Communist captors to hollow out American society from within. Insidious plots subsequently made popular by fiction — think “The Manchurian Candidate” — appeared first in the pages of serious newsmagazines. In The Saturday Evening Post, Rear Adm. D. V. Gallery speculated that the Communists had expended so much energy on brainwashing American P.O.W.s to create a network of sleeper saboteurs awaiting activation. The Chinese, according to Admiral Gallery, had sown mental seeds they anticipated would “take root” and sprout in 10 or 20 years should another depression grip America. “This may seem far-fetched to those of us who live from year to year,” he acknowledged, before adding an Orientalist twist to his scenario. “But it isn’t to Asiatics, who look at centuries as we do months.”Why did people take “brainwashing” so seriously, despite the best efforts of prominent social scientists to debunk outré Pavlovian notions and the racist stereotypes often used to buttress them? And why does “election hacking” exert a comparable allure? Anxieties about external manipulation are not, of course, divorced from the demonstrable efforts of other powers to sway Americans’ politically consequential behavior: The theft and distribution of Democratic National Committee emails was real enough, as was the Chinese effort to win converts among captive Americans imprisoned in North Korea. But “election hacking” and “brainwashing” share an aura of dark magic that obscures the precise mechanics believed to be at work in shaping the thoughts and actions of freethinking adults. And obscurity provides fertile soil in which conspiracy theories flourish. When everything is, or may be, a form of “election hacking,” the techniques appear worrisomely diffuse. So, too, do the agents of a phenomenon variously attributed to Russian trolls, Twitter-bots, Facebook ads, a “useful idiot” in the White House or American idiocy more generally.Anxiety over new technology also helps explain how concerns over foreign mental meddling metastasized in both the 1950s and present-day United States. Then as now, Americans fretted not only over the Kremlin’s machinations but also over the ways in which a pervasive new medium was simultaneously bringing people closer while turning living rooms into isolated bubbles. Where today we devote acres of type to parsing the antisocial pitfalls of social media, anatomists of the ’50s rued the destructive potential of television — whether to empower populist maniacs or induce Americans to crave new consumer goods they neither wanted nor needed. Now we ponder mysterious algorithms that mine our every online keystroke for lucrative potential; then, Americans got wise to techniques of “subliminal suggestion” that advertising wizards apparently employed to turn psychic soft spots into sales.Fears of external manipulation tap into deep-seated human anxieties over individual autonomy. It can be terrifying to envision the mind as porous and malleable, just as it’s alarming to contemplate state sovereignty as fragile and violable. But fantasies of invasion also exert a horror-show allure that threatens to cloud sober judgment about what ails democracy and how best to remedy it.Perhaps the most surprising twist to the 1950s brainwashing scare is how quickly Americans lost interest in the brutality of P.O.W. camps and turned instead to self-criticism. An increasingly affluent society was excoriated as soft, degenerate and vulnerable, while Americans were called (by other Americans) flabby and gullible dupes. The enemy without was recast as an enemy within. Curiously, at the height of the Cold War, Americans reserved their most scathing critique for fellow citizens. It would be unfortunate if the current wave of panic over Russian interference ended in fiercer excoriation of American “deplorability,” without generating more productive ideas for reinvigorating deliberative democracy.Susan L. Carruthers is a professor of American history at the University of Warwick in England and the author, most recently, of “The Good Occupation: American Soldiers and the Hazards of Peace.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy JANE ADAMSJAN. 18, 2018
New data from American, Canadian and British college students indicates that perfectionism, especially when influenced by social media, has increased by 33 percent since 1989.As a psychologist, I’m not shocked. The study, published last month in the Psychological Bulletin, reflects what my colleagues and I are hearing from our clients and discussing among ourselves: As college students are returning to school after their winter breaks, many parents are concerned about the state of their mental health. The parents worry about the pressure their kids are putting on themselves. Thinking that others in their social network expect a lot of them is even more important to young adults than the expectations of parents and professors.“Millennials feel pressure to perfect themselves partly out of social media use that leads them to compare themselves to others,” said Thomas Curran, the study’s lead author and a lecturer in the Center for Motivation and Health Behavior Change at the University of Bath in England. He added that this theory hasn’t been tested and would require further research.“Meritocracy places a strong need for young people to strive, perform and achieve,” he said. They have “increasingly unrealistic educational and professional expectations for themselves.”AdvertisementParents in my practice say they’re noticing how often their kids come away from Facebook and Instagram feeling depressed, ashamed and anxious, and how vulnerable they are to criticism and judgment, even from strangers, on their social media feeds.AdvertisementPerfectionism is a personality trait or characteristic that is innate in many people. It is nurtured in some environments, notably in families where personal accomplishment, academic or otherwise, is rewarded: “Where self-esteem is earned, not just given out with a trophy for participation,” said Steve Codling, a high school teacher in Seattle who believes in pushing his students as well as his college-age sons to excel and praising them when they do. But for other parents, it’s often difficult to know when perfectionism in their kids is cause for concern: After all, the high standards they set for themselves probably got them into college.The researchers looked at more than 41,000 students’ responses on the Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale, which not only measures degrees of perfectionism but also distinguishes among its three aspects: self-oriented, other-oriented and socially prescribed. And while self-prescribed perfectionism is associated with greater productivity, conscientiousness and career success, many parents are concerned when they see signs that it is affecting their child’s mood and behavior.“Sometimes it’s paralyzing,” Katherine Dieckmann, a filmmaker and professor at Columbia University, said of the perfectionist tendencies she sees in her 20-year-old daughter, a college sophomore. “I understand, because we were both born that way.”As an artist, Ms. Dieckmann herself has difficulty letting go of a project or task unless it’s perfect. Like her daughter, she worries it to death, “believing it can be better, which so often is worse.” She recognizes that her daughter’s habit of procrastination is not from lack of motivation but more from a sense that “if she can’t finish it perfectly, she’d rather not do it.” That characteristic carries over into other areas of her life, Ms. Dieckmann said. “She’s the same way about her hobbies, like photography.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Another parent, whose son is a student at an Ivy League college, said: “He’s not striving to meet our standards, they’re his own.” The father, whom I cannot name because he is my patient, said: “I keep reminding him that perfect is the enemy of good, and he says, ‘Yeah, but good’s not enough to get into med school.’”Hannah Miller, a Columbia graduate student, is candid about her perfectionism. “When it’s not out of control, it’s a good thing to have. When it overwhelms me, which is less often than it did when I was an undergraduate, I have to force myself to step back and make an accurate assessment of how important the task is and consider it thoughtfully rather than emotionally — like, how good does it have to be?”When she finds herself procrastinating until a deadline, she repeats a maxim favored by a high school teacher: Do the best that you can in the time that you have.Ms. Miller said that when she’s stressed and anxious she turns to her close friends for comfort and support, and also to her mother, whose perfectionism, like her own, is mostly self-prescribed. Mother and daughter share a kind of presentational perfectionism, especially about public speaking. Ms. Miller said that her mother “gets over it the same way she tells me to: Prepare thoroughly and it will carry you through.”AdvertisementIf you are a parent concerned about perfectionist tendencies in your child, the questions posed by the Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale, used in the study, may be informative. Among its 44 items, scaled from 1 (disagree) to 7 (agree), are statements like these: When I am working on something, I can’t relax unless it’s perfect; The people around me expect me to succeed at everything I do; The better I do, the better I am expected to do. The scale is not a clinical instrument, but the questions might be a good starting point for discussion.It’s hard to tell how much social media is affecting your child’s self-image; many feel enormous pressure to be perfect off line, too. And it’s difficult to know what, if anything, parents can do about it, beyond offering empathy, reassurance and emotional support.If they’ve been here before, remind them that perfect wasn’t the goal; good enough was, and it did the trick. (“Remember the way you felt before your SATs, and how well you did?”) Make sure it’s their perfectionism you’re worried about, not yours. And stay in touch without hovering. If they seem really anxious for more than a week, suggest they seek counseling, or contact the school to ask whether the department of student life might sponsor a program about perfectionism.And meanwhile, send care packages. It’s fine if they’re not perfect — they will still brighten your student’s day.Jane Adams is a social psychologist, writer and coach.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOpinionOne year later, these Women’s March symbols have found new purpose as stuffed toys and talismans (when they’re not being worn, that is).One year ago, people at Women’s Marches across the country and around the world donned pink headgear to protest an administration headed by a man who, by his own account, thought he had a right to grab anything he wanted. We asked readers what they’ve done with their pussy hats since. Nicole Cesare of Philadelphia stashes hers in a “go bag” along with pens, a notebook and snacks in case she needs to rush to a protest. Whitney Logan of Fairway, Kan., puts hers on when she makes phone calls to her senators and representatives: “It gives me courage,” she said. Emily Kilbourn, in Bethlehem, Connecticut, wears hers when she’s going somewhere she knows she’ll run into conservatives: “Amazing what a smile, wave, and a tip of the pussy hat will do!”For some readers, they’ve become complicated objects, representative of an unserious sort of activism, unsuited to the times. For others, they’ve become a kind of talisman, to be worn at pivotal moments, good and bad (the Alabama special Senate election in December was a popular occasion for digging them out). And for others, they’re just a hat — special, perhaps, but ultimately a head warmer: “I wear it!” said Maureen Thomas, of Columbus, Ohio. “Why wouldn’t I?”Several stories and photos from readers are below. Submissions have been edited for length and clarity.I wear it when I need to get my “lady power” up. I live in a house with my husband, two teenage boys and a 75-year-old mom who just doesn’t get it. My hat reminds me of that powerful trip I took with my sister to Washington, where I met so many amazing women.And actually, I just wore it on Christmas Eve. I was doing all of the work — juggling cooking, etc., and my stove was acting funky and four male family members decided to mansplain to me about the gas ignition, and what I was doing wrong. I stormed upstairs, got my hat, ignored them all and figured out how to get my stove to work properly to continue cooking my meal for 20-plus people. My hat is a huge symbol to me, and reminds me daily how as a result of the unexpected election of Donald Trump, so many women harnessed their collective power and are just standing up to so many injustices, big and small. — Laura Patton, South Hempstead, N.Y.I made it, and I wear it! I wear it on deck at masters’ swim meets to warm my head and intimidate the competition. Unfortunately, the competition loves it and feels empowered, too. — Gretchen Wahl, ChicagoIt sits in a box under the bed. After a year, its symbolism feels complicated to me now. I’ve listened to the women who have been struggling for a long time with feelings that white women dealt with for the very first time when Donald Trump was elected. I love this hat, but I know that for many women of color, it represents a more shallow level of commitment to our collective work. I don’t see myself wearing it to the anniversary march, and I don’t see myself wearing it again. Yet I can’t bear to part with it, and I do tend to discard things easily. I think it’s, for now, an important representation of my growth as a feminist, and my commitment to always trying to show up in a more intersectional way. — Meaghan McCaughey, San Diego.I had to work during the march, but I wore my hat in solidarity! As a bartender in very conservative Rochester Hills, Mich., I was proud to show my support. I’ve since modified it into a stuffed pink pussycat doll for my 2-year-old daughter. — Megan Casey, Pontiac, Mich.I sneaked out one night and placed my pussy hat on the statue of Katharine Lee Bates (who wrote the words to “America the Beautiful”) that stands on the public library lawn, on the Main Street of my town. I enjoyed watching posts crop up on various social media outlets as locals spotted her hat. It was a gray time of year and her hat really stood out. I went to take a photo of her myself, during the day, and without giving myself away, was pleased to see others taking her photo and calling out in solidarity. Her hat lasted only a few days and I don’t know who took it down. I placed another hat on a statue of Rachel Carson (scientist and author of the groundbreaking environmental classic “Silent Spring”) in Woods Hole, Mass. Likewise, I enjoyed seeing posts on social media as strangers and friends took her photo or took photos of their children with her in her pink hat.” — Erica M. Szuplat, East Falmouth, Mass.I wear it when something big breaks about Donald Trump, or if I’m just feeling like I’d like to give him a middle-finger salute (which, frankly, is pretty often). I wore it the Wednesday morning after Doug Jones was elected, for example. It’s been cold here, and the hat is quite warm. Mostly it lives in a drawer with other winter accessories: scarves, gloves, hats. — David Derbes, ChicagoI am reminded of the brave women on whose shoulders we stand and the foundation we’re building for our daughters. — Laura Torchio, Montclair, N.J.“I would never wear it or use it for anything other than what it was intended for. It’s sacred. The pink pussy hat is a reminder of the power of women and the visual statement of our walking together that day, united. I will be designating what is to happen to my hat in my will. Seriously!” — Dorothy Ferguson, Seattle.I’m not much of a hat person and know I will not wear it again, so I returned my hat to its maker. However, my daughter made mini-hats for Christmas ornaments that I’ve distributed to friends. We’ve enjoyed using them as toppers for other ornaments or figurines. — Linda Judd, Guerneville, Calif.I proudly wear my pussy hat as a visible sign of protest against President Trump’s policies. Every time I wear it someone tells me they like my hat — an acknowledgment of solidarity. I plan on wearing mine to the Women’s March this month. (And my pussy hat earrings!) — Cindy Schaffer, New YorkIt covers our John Wayne bust in our front hallway. I feel ever more depressed and angry when I look at it. Every day I see it and think of my granddaughters, who also marched, and their future in this America, where Donald Trump is truly destroying all we stand for. I like the color though. — Cynthia Amagatto, BostonFollow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement
Your Money By                     
 RON LIEBER
 
JAN. 19, 2018
ALONG THE MASSACHUSETTS TURNPIKE — It’s high season for the people with some of the toughest jobs in higher education.No, not the admissions officers and their piles of applications. I’m talking about the people who run what’s come to be known as enrollment management. When they’re not talking to the families writing the tuition checks, they speak in business terms — of overall discount rates and net tuition revenue.Make no mistake, their field is competitive. “It’s a zero-sum game,” said John Dolan, who works in this area at Simmons College in Boston. “Every student I gain I took from some other institution.”Their tool for attracting students is the scissors they wield to cut the list price of their school, and the discount isn’t just based on what your family can afford anymore. There is also a shadow financial aid system known as “merit aid,” which is a form of discounting that has little to do with your finances.Most parents planning for college in the first 16 or so years of a child’s life have no idea that this two-track system exists, since it mostly did not when they attended college. And there isn’t much data on how to qualify for these discounts. The schools may not explain the qualifications, or they’ll hide the formula inside complex calculators. Moreover, the raw numbers of students who do get discounts are often listed in reports that are hard to find.AdvertisementIt’s frustrating bordering on maddening. Shouldn’t we have as much data about merit aid and discounts as we do when buying a home or a car?AdvertisementTo try to decode some of this, I paid a visit to enrollment practitioners from Mount Holyoke, Simmons, Smith and Wellesley Colleges. The schools have a few important things in common besides Bay State geography: They’re relatively small, and their undergraduate divisions are women’s colleges.When it comes to how they give away and talk about merit aid, however, they are very different.But first, a bit of history. For years, most financial aid was based on need. You disclosed your income and assets, and colleges would make their best offer with a package consisting of grants, loans and perhaps a campus job.That system still exists, but starting in the 1980s another one emerged alongside it. It came to be known as merit aid because many of the early discounters started giving out grants to top students. Their hope was that drawing enough of those applicants might improve their colleges’ rankings.Once a few private colleges started doing it, however, most of the rest fell in line (including an increasing number of public schools) in order to remain competitive. And by the 2016-17 school year, the 411 private nonprofit schools that the National Association of College and University Business Officers surveyed were reporting an average discount rate of 49 percent for first-time, full-time students. So almost half of every dollar in gross tuition revenue from first-year students was used for grants to reduce the cost.Stephen Burd’s 2013 mini-history of merit aid in The Washington Monthly is essential reading for any family trying to understand the system, and it highlights one fundamental problem with merit aid: By giving discounts to families that might otherwise pay more, there may be less money for lower-income students who truly cannot afford the school.Colleges and universities give away merit aid because they believe they must. But there are holdouts; they mostly include schools like Wellesley, which is prestigious enough that a large minority — 42 percent — of families are willing to pay full price. Its big endowment also helps, since it can be especially generous with financial aid that is based solely on its definition of need.“If we found ourselves having difficulty finding the best academic students, we would reassess,” said Joy St. John, dean of admission and financial aid, who admitted 22 percent of the applicants for the class of 2021. “But once you start offering it at a place that is so selective, then everyone begins to expect it.”AdvertisementA few years ago, Smith College started offering more merit aid in the form of $10,000-per-year Presidential Scholarships. To the vice president for enrollment, Audrey Smith, this was a way of acknowledging what untold numbers of upper-middle-class families confront each year: While a financial-need formula may say that you can afford to pay $70,000 per year with your $225,000 annual income, that may not be your reality.“I think there are people who don’t quite demonstrate financial need that truly need the help,” she said.Smith does not, however, provide much explanation about who may qualify for these discounts or how. I pressed the college for some average SAT scores or grade point averages, but it would not hand any over. “We don’t admit statistics, we admit individuals, and individuals are infinitely more complex than the sum of their numerical parts,” said Stacey Schmeidel, a college spokeswoman.Just across the Pioneer Valley, Mount Holyoke does indeed provide overall merit aid qualification data for named merit scholarships on its website. After I visited, however, I asked for a breakdown by merit scholarship type and did not receive one.In an interview there, Gail Berson, the vice president for enrollment and dean of admission, described her growing comfort with merit aid. “We’re trying to discount not just for need but for others who are most deserving in other ways,” she said. She also acknowledged the realities of the marketplace, noting the need to “fend off” competition like the selective honors college with the lower sticker price at the flagship state university just up the road, the University of Massachusetts in Amherst.Which brings us back to Dr. Dolan at Simmons, he of the zero-sum game. He told me that his staff uses matrices created by outside consultants at the Human Capital Research Corporation to try to make the right merit aid offer to the right student at the right time. He doesn’t mince words in describing how he changed his approach to financial aid, once it became clear that Simmons, a small liberal arts school in Boston, was going to need to offer a discount to everyone to attract the right number and type of students.
            In addition to offering financial aid based solely on what a family can afford, many colleges offer grants or discounts based on academic or other qualifications. Here’s how four schools approach this so-called merit aid.        2017-18 school year, unless notedAVERAGEACADEMICPROFILE OFMERIT AIDRECIPIENTSPCT.PAYINGFULLPRICE†PCT.RECEIVINGMERITAID††LISTPRICESCHOOLMountHolyoke$65,83022%12%4.08 G.P.A.758 criticalreading SAT;726 mathSATSimmons$57,693*0%100%3.36 G.P.A.,1175combinedSAT** 32%Smithdid notdisclosefiguresSmith$69,06410%42%n.a.Wellesley$69,274Nomerit aid2017-18 school year, unless notedPERCENTPAYINGFULL PRICE†PERCENTRECEIVINGMERIT AID††AVERAGEACADEMIC PROFILEOF MERIT AID RECIPIENTSSCHOOLLIST PRICEMount Holyoke$65,83022%12%4.08 grade point average,758 critical reading SAT, 726 math SAT0%3.36 grade point average,1175 combined SAT** Simmons$57,693*100%Smith$69,06432%10%Smith did not disclosefiguresWellesley$69,27442%No merit aidn.a.JAN. 19, 2018
“Do we leverage this and say, ‘This is who we are, and everyone is going to get something based on academic performance’?” he said. “At some point, it’s just kind of icky not to admit it.”Simmons does not disclose the average credentials for merit aid recipients on its merit aid website page in the same way that Mount Holyoke does, but Dr. Dolan said he was considering adding them.AdvertisementI believe I speak for most families and applicants when I say this: It should not be this hard to get basic information about what kind of discounts you might get from a school. They release some data on the percentage of people who get merit discounts, if you do a careful read of federal data from a website called Ipeds or in another collection of numbers that many schools release called the Common Data Set. Every school also has a net price calculator that spits out estimates of what you might pay there. Some of the calculators (though not the ones at Smith and Mount Holyoke) may ask for academic data and try to predict merit aid eligibility.Debbie Schwartz, who runs the Paying for College 101 Facebook group, has a suggestion for how the schools could make merit-aid forecasting much simpler: Release a graphic that explains how much merit aid students might get, on average, if they are in particular bands of SAT scores or grade point averages.It would not be perfectly predictive, but it would offer a lot more information than many schools currently release. And given how far into the six figures many families will go to pay for college, it doesn’t seem like too much to ask. “It’s a sad statement that this is like it is,” she said.Twitter: @ronlieberA version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Decoding Hidden College Discounts.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ORR SHTUHLJAN. 18, 2018
The New England-style India pale ale, with its juicy hop flavors and hazy look, has become a phenomenon among craft beer fans. They camp out overnight to be among the first to buy rare releases, and flock to hazy-I.P.A. festivals in New York City, Buffalo, Toronto and Portland, Ore., to celebrate the new vanguard.Now comes proof that the groundswell is more than just a passing tremor: Two of the country’s largest craft brewers are making their own versions of the style. In December, Sierra Nevada Brewing Co. introduced Hazy Little Thing I.P.A. in a few areas, and this month has released it nationwide. The Boston Beer Company, which makes Samuel Adams, has begun selling its New England I.P.A. in that region, and will go nationwide in February.For these companies, the move is both a logical next step and a big risk. Much of the appeal of the hazy I.P.A.s stems from their origins as small-batch, indie brews that are sold at the source. And unlike any earlier styles, these beers require freshness in the extreme. After a few weeks, they literally fall apart — the haze disappears as their proteins fall out of suspension, destroying the hop flavors and, in most cases, rendering the beer fit for the drain.“Hazy I.P.A.s are pretty tough to make if you’re hoping to distribute nationally,” said Bill Manley, who helped develop Sierra Nevada’s recipe for Hazy Little Thing before leaving the company in November. “The haze that’s in beer is, by and large, pretty darn unstable.”AdvertisementBut the big brewers think they can guarantee freshness, win over the skeptics and appeal to parts of the country that this young style hasn’t reached.Advertisement“There are still many drinkers who have yet to experience the hazy, citrusy brew,” said Meaghan Quinn, a spokeswoman for Samuel Adams.The fervor around these beers is ripe with hyperbole, but in the best examples, it’s warranted. Hazy I.P.A.s offer lush, juicy flavors that beers have never had before. Brewers are harnessing the citrus and tropical notes of new hop varieties while eschewing their characteristic bitterness, a trick they achieve by loading their hops late in the brewing process, and in huge quantities.These beers seem to defy large-scale production and cross-country shipping; many brewers intentionally keep batches small to ensure freshness through high turnover. But Sierra Nevada in particular has consistently made world-class beers in big volume, and these ephemeral I.P.A.s will be its biggest test.The beers’ haze has traditionally come from hop particles that mix with yeast in suspension. The result is hop flavors that, rather than wafting up to your nose from the glass, burst in your mouth after each sip.As the New England style has proliferated, breweries have turned to high-protein grains, like oats and unmalted wheat, to build a more stable haze for their beloved hops to nest in. Others use additives like pectin or even flour, igniting debate in the most fervent corners of the craft-beer world.Sierra Nevada uses oats in its recipe for Hazy Little Thing. But it also employs other tricks for quality control, including one common among wheat beer producers: When sending kegs to restaurants and bars, the company instructs distributors to ship them upside down. That way, the bartender is forced to flip them upon delivery, stirring up the proteins and restoring the haze.Today, an I.P.A.’s cloudy appearance has become its signifier, even a status symbol, flooding Instagram feeds and inspiring hashtags like #hazyipa and #newenglendipa. Garrett Oliver, the brewmaster of Brooklyn Brewery, has declared the New England ales “the first beer style based around Instagram culture and based around social media.”AdvertisementBut in the beginning, haze wasn’t the goal; it was a side effect. “We never set out to brew an I.P.A. that was hazy,” said John Kimmich, a founder and the head brewer of the Alchemist in Waterbury, Vt. “Our I.P.A. was hazy because we brewed it the way I wanted it to taste.”Mr. Kimmich is the creator of Heady Topper, the ale that popularized the style and still sells out hours after a shipment hits New York City. His beer brims with flavors of tropical fruit and pine, balanced with a keen, citrus-peel bitterness. When he began brewing Heady Topper in 2004, his goal was to load up on hop flavors using “dry hopping,” or adding hops during fermentation rather than during the boiling process. This coaxes more aroma than bitter flavor from the hops; the sheer volume of hops happened to turn the beer hazy.Like many brewers of this style, Mr. Kimmich is intent on keeping his operation and availability regional. In true Vermont fashion, it doesn’t take much to get him started about corporate greed and his allegiance to helping the local community.Some might question the need to sell a beer this perishable nationwide. Fresh, locally made beer is readily available these days in most metropolitan areas.But the hazy-I.P.A. trend hasn’t swept the middle of the nation yet, and Samuel Adams hopes to bring some people their first taste of the style. The company is keeping an eye on distributors to ensure that consumers get their beer fresh.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“No beer is ever going to be as good as it is five days out of the brewery,” said Megan Parisi, the head brewer at the Boston nanobrewery where Samuel Adams researches and develops new recipes. But the company is banking on the beer’s staying good for a while; it is setting an expiration date of three months for its New England I.P.A.Mr. Kimmich is most excited about the new beer from Sierra Nevada, a company he idolized early in his career, as a brewer in the 1990s at the Vermont Pub and Brewery.“Sierra Nevada? Those guys,” he said. “How many countless beers have they inspired with their pale ale?”New England-style I.P.A.s walk a spectrum from bitter to sweet. This is a case where balance isn’t always preferred: If you already love I.P.A.s, there are many bitter ones to satisfy you. If you don’t, the sweet variety could be your gateway drink.AdvertisementNow that two of the nation’s largest craft brewers have entered the scene, with Sierra Nevada Hazy Little Thing (6.7 percent alcohol by volume) and Samuel Adams New England I.P.A. (6.8 percent A.B.V.), how do they fit into that spectrum?In terms of flavor, both are a tier below their small-batch counterparts, missing the vibrant fruitiness that distinguishes the best of breed. Samuel Adams’s beer evokes citrus but not in the literal, tastes-like-juice way that is the New England style; it’s scarcely different from an ordinary I.P.A.The Sierra Nevada beer has more pleasant flavors of dried apricot and dried pineapple, and is the better choice if you can’t find something fresh and local.But in many parts of the country, local examples will be more expressive and worth seeking out. In New York, Other Half Brewing is the king of hazy I.P.A.s, so much so that its cans are nearly impossible to find. But they are worth the hunt — lean, racy and sharp with hops.Greenpoint Beer & Ale’s Instant Credibility (7.8 percent A.B.V.) punches with aggressive bitterness and an undercurrent of pulpy orange and mango nectar. Also lovely is its spiritual opposite from upstate, Industrial Arts Wrench (6.8 percent A.B.V.), which embodies the sweet end of the spectrum with a silky mouth feel and flavors that verge on pineapple juice. I.P.A. skeptics, start here.As the originator of the New England style, the Alchemist’s Heady Topper (8 percent A.B.V.) has one foot in the traditional I.P.A. style, with familiar notes of pine, grapefruit and resin turned up in the foreground, washing over a background of fruit-driven hops.Mr. Kimmich, Alchemist’s brewer, calls it “balanced,” and hopheads will attest to that. It won’t bring new fans to hoppy beers, but it’s a treat for the already converted.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Two Big Brewers Hope to Cash In on an I.P.A. Craze.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAMIEN CAVEJAN. 18, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world, and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter. Want to receive it by email? Sign up here.______A few newsletters ago, I asked for your help. Could we, together, vanquish Canada?Could we add more new sign-ups to the Australia Letter than my colleague, Ian Austen, could add to his newsletter, the Canada Letter?Since Canada had more than double our subscriber base to pull from, it was an epic challenge. Not quite like trying to reach the third round of the Australian Open when you’re only 15 years old. But sort of.And you did it.Marta Kostyuk became the youngest woman to reach the third round of a Grand Slam in 21 years this week; and as of Thursday night, 1,921 people signed up for the Australia Letter since my plea at the end of November, compared to 1,334 for the Canada Letter.AdvertisementA toast goes to all those who signed up or who helped sign up friends. Thank you. (Here’s the sign-up page for those still eager to contribute.)AdvertisementSpecial thanks also goes to those who supported our effort in Australia by giving the gift of a The New York Times subscription for the holidays.And for those looking to exhibit that famous Aussie competitiveness, Kate Moss is the one to beat. Here’s what she wrote to us in December:Hi NYT Australia team,I wanted to take this opportunity to say thank you for the fantastic and intellectually stimulating articles that you have published on Australia and the Asia-Pacific region. I first subscribed to the NYT following the inauguration of President Trump. As an avid consumer of American politics, I was keen to read more in-depth political articles, particularly as the quality of local Australian newspapers have declined. Some of my favorite examples of quality journalism have been the young Sudanese men playing basketball in Western Sydney, the incredible photography by Adam Ferguson on the Australian outback and the sobering coverage on Manus Island. The quality and in-depth coverage of articles published has greatly impressed me and I have since gifted two subscriptions to family members as birthday presents and will be gifting more subscriptions as Christmas gifts.Keep up the good work and look forward to seeing what NYT Australia comes up with in 2018. Kind regards,Kate MossNow before some of you get all cross with me for the self-celebratory tone, let me also say this: We’re not yet where we aim to be.The Australia bureau is less than a year old and we still have a lot to learn about how to make sure we’re telling the stories — and sharing the stories beyond this continent — that will add value to your routine.As always, we’re eager to hear from you. If you have a story tip, an investigative lead, or an anecdote for our Australia Diary, email us at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.We’re also pushing forward with brainstorming of our own.I just got back from an annual meeting of New York Times correspondents in the Asia-Pacific region. For three days in Hong Kong, dozens of New York Times journalists huddled together to talk about coverage for the coming year.We discussed how China is changing under Xi Jinping, what “the China model” actually is, and how it is influencing the world at a time of American retreat.We discussed the direction of India and Myanmar. We discussed religion and democracy. We talked about suicide in Japan, protests in Iran, how technology is being used to reshape interaction for us all.AdvertisementWe also ate some amazing food. (Peking duck. Lots of it, among other things.)And of course, we talked about Australia and New Zealand.Interest in this part of the world seems to be growing. As a result, you can expect more visitors this year and a wider range of coverage.Truly, The New York Times here and everywhere is an evolving effort. We’re eager to do great work, and eager to engage our (and your) collective curiosity.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.So let’s get to it.Here’s this week’s roundup of stories, plus a recommendation for what to listen to while you enjoy the summer heat.See you on Twitter and in our NYT Australia Facebook group!______A former CIA agent was arrested and charged with helping the Chinese government identify informants inside China — possibly explaining why several informants were killed or imprisoned in a major collapse of the American spy network in China.President Trump received a perfect score on a test screening for neurological impairment on Tuesday. The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has subpoenaed the president’s former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, to testify before a grand jury investigating links between the President Trump’s associates and Russia.______To bitcoin or not to bitcoin?As the price of the behemoth cryptocurrency wavered this week, our reporters dove into the world of virtual currency to examine a tightknit group of friends and enthusiasts who hope to shake up the monetary status quo.If you’re in the mood for a longer read, check out this feature from our magazine, where one writer explains why blockchain platforms could make not just money, but history.And have you heard of Ripple, another cryptocurrency that briefly made one of its co-founders richer than Mark Zuckerberg last week?Advertisement______Grab your raquets. These are the players we’re closely watching at this year’s Australian Open. This is where to find our coverage of all the most important moments and back stories.And remember that whole same-sex marriage thing? We attended one of the first gay weddings for a look at the excitement among vendors who are expecting a boom to the tune of $650 million Australian dollars over the next 12 months.In this week’s Australia Diary, we gathered a collection of poetry that reflects on moments of beauty in nature.And Friday means it’s time for another Besha Rodell review. Return here to be the first to read it.______• Aziz Ansari Is Guilty. Of Not Being a Mind Reader, writes editor Bari Weiss, after a story detailing a sexual encounter between an anonymous woman and the comedian went public, adding another layer to the #metoo conversation.• In Hawaii, Readers React to a Missile Attack False Alarm. “Imagine learning that you have only minutes to live. I texted my family that I loved them because the cell service was overloaded and I couldn’t get a call out,” one reader recalled.• Can a Jew Love France? Alexander Aciman explores the muddled allegiances and yearnings of his French and Jewish heritage.Via our resident podcast fanatic, Isabella Kwai:Check out The Heart, a recently-ended podcast from Brooklyn that looks at all the pieces that make up love — it’s unflinchingly honest, frequently touching. While on my leisurely walk to work, I couldn’t stop listening to this episode about a mother and daughter going on a cruise.Damien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He likes Canada but loves Australia. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By WESLEY MORRISJAN. 19, 2018
Last week, John Fogerty fired up Facebook and made a complaint. Why on earth is this new Taraji P. Henson shoot-em-up using the name of the song he wrote? Indeed, “Proud Mary,” which stars Ms. Henson as a hit woman in Boston, shares its title with the 1969 Creedence Clearwater Revival hit that Mr. Fogerty wrote — probably the best-known song about anybody named Mary.“No one ever asked me about using my song this way, or even about the meaning of Proud Mary,” his post said. “The movie poster has my lyrics changed to read ‘killing’ for the Man every night and day.” (One poster really does say this, which is strange since the person playing “the Man” is Danny Glover.)Anyway, he went on: “I wrote the song about a mythical riverboat, cruising on a mythical river, in a mythical time. Perhaps, the setting was ‘back in time’ on the Mississippi River. It was obviously a metaphor about leaving painful, stressful things behind for a more tranquil and meaningful life. Far from a story about killing people for money.”Now, instead of a mythical river, it’s just the Mystic, and instead of the song’s riverboat queen, it’s just warehouse space — and vans, lots of people unloading vans.AdvertisementI’ll admit I’m jealous of the economy of Mr. Fogerty’s pique. All he saw was a poster and smelled a rat. I had to watch the whole movie. And his question is basically mine. Why’s Mary proud? This isn’t exactly a moral question. She can kill anyone she wants. But this is the sort of lousy action vehicle that leaves you with a lot of dumb questions — like, why does Boston need this many drug syndicates? Why do they need this many assassins? And does the fact that they all hang out in converted waterfront lofts mean that organized crime, and not the biotech industry, is doing the gentrifying? Dumb questions.AdvertisementThe most nagging one of all is the matter of Mary’s pride. All we really see her do is drive and shoot. Wouldn’t a proud Mary be posting selfies next to new corpses? It almost doesn’t matter that Ms. Henson is playing her, even though that fact should make this the most fun you have at a movie all month. But Ms. Henson, who’s an executive producer, left her flamboyant starriness on the “Empire” set. She’s all business here, but the business feels so small.It turns out that the movie is about how Mary winds up babysitting a kid because she feels bad for killing his father. So why this thing isn’t called “Guilty Mary” or “Mary, Don’t You Weep” is beyond me. But that’s not what this movie’s about. What it’s about is justifying that title. It’s a justification about 75 minutes in the making, which is about 74 too long.For the incoherent, visually chaotic climax, Mary winds up flooring her expensive coupe into the men shooting at — but somehow missing — her. The camera can barely keep up with the bodies and the debris hurtling toward it. Some of that debris doesn’t even seem real. The bullet holes might give the worst performance in the movie.Anyway, what’s playing for most of the sequence is Mr. Fogerty’s song — not his canonical Creedence version but Ike and Tina Turner’s. That arrangement departs radically but respectfully from Mr. Fogerty’s. It starts with an overture in which Tina tells us how she and Ike and the Ikettes are going to take this thing from modesty to explosive overstatement (“You see, we never ever do nothing nice and easy”) before she blasts off. “Rollin’ on the river,” yes. But when she’s singing, powerboatin’ on it, too. It’s such a tone-deaf misappropriation of music that it left me feeling litigious.There’s nothing legally wrong going on here, though. Screen Gems, the Sony imprint that produced and released the movie, paid for use of the song, whose rights don’t belong to Mr. Fogerty. But the incompetence really is something. Or maybe it’s the obviousness. Maybe it’s the inevitability. The whole movie seems to exist just for this sequence. Even if I’d paid just to see Ms. Henson mow down gangs of goons (and I probably did pay only for that), I didn’t get my money’s worth. It’s like I bought a can that said “peaches,” got peaches in the can, but the can was rusty, so the peaches were, too.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Movies and television have a way of using a soundtrack not just to create a mood but to literalize it. You could always count on a master class in splitting the difference between artistry and obviousness during the so-called Blaxploitation era (which “Proud Mary” practically pulls a muscle reaching back to evoke). “Shaft” and “Superfly,” on the one hand. On the other, “Coffy is the color of your skin/Coffy is the world you live in.”For its part, in a statement to Entertainment Weekly, Screen Gems made Mr. Fogerty an entreaty: Come see the movie! “He would see” the statement reads, “that his complaint that the film has nothing to do with the song’s message as ‘a metaphor about leaving painful, stressful things behind for a more tranquil and meaningful life’ is inaccurate. That is precisely what our Mary is looking to do, and Taraji nails it perfectly.”They’re not wrong. But come on. Mary winds up taking her self-inflicted babysitting assignment so seriously (I won’t spoil the details) that she actually has no choice but to leave the stress behind.Now, I know what somebody involved with this movie was thinking. The screenplay seems as if it’s been kicking around for who knows how long (Pam Grier could have done this in 1973, title and all), and maybe it used to be called something else. But it’s “Proud Mary” now, and Mary is a black woman — and when was the last time a black woman, who isn’t Halle Berry, carried any movie by herself, let alone one in which she keeps an arsenal hidden in her walk-in closet, not far from her wigs, one that lets her do the old shoot-and-slide along a warehouse floor? This really is a kind of momentous occasion, and for that you need a momentous song, and “Proud Mary” more than satisfies the occasion. Every time I hear Ms. Turner spit out the word “left” or sing “burnin’” or “all right!,” I want to fight to ensure voting rights. I want to karate chop something.AdvertisementSo it all makes a kind of sense, right? Let’s honor the occasion with a song worthy of it. The occasion might warrant this song. The movie is a different story. Leaning on the Ike and Tina version might bring it into better, blacker alignment with the star, but it addresses neither the central incongruity (Why use this song for a massacre? Why use it for a massacre this badly orchestrated?) nor the artistic injustice of Mr. Fogerty’s complaint. There are bullet holes in walls, tire treads on mobsters, and now bullet holes and tire treads all over his song.A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: The ‘Proud Mary’ Problem.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Big City By                     
 GINIA BELLAFANTE
 
JAN. 18, 2018
On Monday, Mathilde Krim died. She was a biologist who spoke five languages; who contributed, in her 20s and 30s, to more than a dozen papers on cancer and virology; ran the interferon lab at Memorial Sloan Kettering; served on a team that developed a method for determining sex in utero; smuggled guns to opponents of British rule in Palestine; threw John F. Kennedy’s 45th-birthday party at her East Side townhouse; married twice, had a daughter and later received the Presidential Medal of Freedom for her historic work in AIDS research and advocacy. At the news of her death, the internet paid relatively little attention.Instead, by the next morning, the leading conversation among women whose voices are prominent on social media revolved around the story of a young photographer who had a demoralizing sexual encounter with Aziz Ansari, after going out for lobster rolls with him a few months ago. The woman, who used the alias “Grace,” recalled the events of the evening, which began with drinks at Mr. Ansari’s downtown apartment and ended with recycled jokes and Uber and sorrow, to a writer for an online publication, Babe. We are meant to infer that the comedian’s self-regarding erotic misbehavior began the moment he gave his guest a glass of white wine when she wanted red — there’s no place for speculating that maybe he just ran out of Syrah.Grace came to view what happened as assault, even if the facts she presents do not warrant the charge. Mr. Ansari, as he put it in a statement, believed that he had been given every indication that what had transpired between them was consensual. He continued, he said, to support the essential movement toward sexual equilibrium that was upending the old order, and the world appeared willing to let him do it — few people seeming to demand that his distasteful persistence leave him expelled from public life.But the conversation had its own momentum. Writing for the Atlantic, Caitlin Flanagan, whose interrogations of gender are as welcome by young feminists as hymnals are by atheists, was the first to wonder why Grace, pushed beyond her point of interest, had not simply gone home. The reprisals were numerous. Maisha Z. Johnson, a writer and editor whose website highlights her professional commitment “to the power of digital media for social change and healing,’’ for instance, alerted her Facebook followers that Ms. Flanagan was not trustworthy, offering as evidence a piece that appeared in Bitch Media, several years ago, titled: “Douchebag Decree: Caitlin Flanagan, Our First Douchebag All-Star!” The irony trumped the incivility. The piece attacked Ms. Flanagan, in part, for denouncing Helen Gurley Brown, the Cosmopolitan founder, who at the time of the Clarence Thomas hearings in 1991 jovially said, in response to a question about whether anyone on her staff had ever been sexually harassed: “I certainly hope so.”AdvertisementA counterargument to the idea that young women ought to just extricate themselves from sexual situations in which they aren’t having any fun soon circulated, maintaining that the culture conditions them to acquiesce, to prioritize the needs of others before their own. “It feels paralyzing to assert ourselves,’’ Jill Filipovic wrote in The Guardian in reaction to all of this. And yet when I look around at millennial women, problems with inhibition or the ability to hang on to a healthy sense of entitlement are not the ones I am quickest to identify.A few days before the Ansari controversy erupted, some number of young women had taken to eviscerate the writer Katie Roiphe on Twitter, for a piece she was writing for Harper’s Magazine, related to the movement against harassment, but still weeks away from publication.This week, when the HLN television host Ashleigh Banfield called out Babe for the Ansari story, claiming that it threatened to dilute the crucial work of #MeToo and that Grace had merely endured a “bad date,” the writer of the piece, Katie Way, 22, lashed out in an email that Ms. Banfield read on air. It called her “a second-wave feminist has-been,” who “I’m certain no one under 45 has ever heard of,” and went on to ridicule her hair and lipstick. And yet, Ms. Banfield suddenly had a currency she hadn’t had in years.AdvertisementThe quiet treatment of Mathilde Krim, when stacked up against the ubiquity of Grace, ultimately reveals a strain of internet sexism that we are all complicit in perpetuating and barely address — the bestowing of outsize rewards, measured in publicity, for certain female narratives over others, for stories that invite judgments and counterjudgments, nearly always about sex and domestic complexity. Just a few days ago, a young writer, Moira Donegan, found herself anointed in the wake of a well-crafted and thoroughly absorbing essay she wrote for The Cut, in which she announced that she was the woman who had created the fabled list meant to steer women away from potentially dangerous men in the media. And yet this kind of success isn’t scalable. It is nearly impossible to imagine a similar reception for a 25-year old woman who composed a powerful piece about how she came to believe in the moral necessity of, say, congestion pricing.In the course of her career, the academic Anne-Marie Slaughter had written two books and countless scholarly articles about foreign policy, but it wasn’t until she wrote a cover story in 2012 for The Atlantic — “Why Women Still Can’t Have It All,” about her decision to leave the State Department and spend more time at home — that she became widely known.When Joan Rivers died, the internet exploded because we could talk about what kind of feminist her comedy of self-loathing really made her. Mathilde Krim, who fought passionately against stigma and stereotyping and whose work saved tens of thousands of lives, left us with too little ambiguity — and presumably not enough wisdom on hooking up.Email bigcity@nytimes.comA version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page MB1 of the New York edition with the headline: On the Internet, Our Biases Show.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ANA HOMAYOUNJAN. 17, 2018
On the heels of two large Apple investors urging the company to address kids’ phone addiction, many parents may be wondering: How do I know if my child is addicted to his or her smartphone? And how can I prevent problematic overuse?There are reasons for concern. A 2016 survey from Common Sense Media found that half of teenagers felt addicted to their devices, and 78 percent checked their devices at least hourly. Seventy-two percent of teens felt pressured to respond immediately to texts, notifications and social media messaging. A 2015 Pew Research report found that 73 percent of 13- to 17-year-olds had their own smartphones or had access to one, and 24 percent said they were online “almost constantly.”I have spent the past 15 years helping teens with organization and time management. Many parents of kids I work with are conflicted about their teens’ smartphone use. They appreciate the convenience of having access to their children and the potential safety benefits. And, in an age of social media socialization, teenagers use messaging apps to stay in touch with friends and make social plans, some of which can be positive.When a high school student I work with broke his neck playing football this past fall, his smartphone became a crucial link not just to friends, but also to others dealing with similar injuries. After watching videos of others documenting their recovery on YouTube, he connected with some via Facebook Messenger and began conversations he found “incredibly helpful.”AdvertisementInstead of becoming overly fixated on teens’ smartphone use in general, it is important to think about “what are the applications on the smartphone and how is your particular child using the applications on that smartphone,” said Katie Davis, assistant professor at the University of Washington and co-director of the UW Digital Youth Lab, whose research explores the role of new media technologies in young people’s personal, social and academic lives. Parents trying to monitor use can have difficulty distinguishing abusive behavior from appropriate use, especially since teens use their devices for both schoolwork and free time, often simultaneously.AdvertisementFor some teens, the constant potential feedback loop from notifications and messaging might create a fear of missing out, or FOMO. And although there is currently no official medical recognition of “smartphone addiction” as a disease or disorder, the term refers to obsessive behaviors that disturb the course of daily activities in a way that mirrors patterns similar to substance abuse.Here are some questions to ask: Does your teenager’s mood suddenly change and become intensely anxious, irritable, angry or even violent when the phone is taken away or unavailable for use? Does your teen skip or not participate in social events because of time spent on the phone? Another red flag is spending so much time on a smartphone that it affects personal hygiene and normal daily activities (most notably, sleep). Lying, hiding and breaking family rules to spend more time on a smartphone can be cause for alarm, said Hilarie Cash, a psychotherapist and the chief clinical officer at reSTART, an internet addiction rehabilitation program outside of Seattle.In my work with students, I’ve found that even teenagers who want to curb their phone use may find it difficult to self-regulate without parental guidance. Creating daily and weekly offline time as part of the family routine is helpful, and finding a way to have a once- or twice-yearly extended period of time off — at a summer camp or outdoor expedition without Wi-Fi, or on a family trip — may provide the reset teens need to break negative habits.South Korean researchers developed and tested a 10-item questionnaire to determine adolescent smartphone addiction. The brief questionnaire, published in the journal PLOS One in December 2013, asks users to answer statements like whether they have missed work because of smartphone use, have had a hard time concentrating in class because they were thinking about their phones and whether they became impatient when not using a smartphone.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For parents thinking of getting their kids smartphones, providing incremental and compartmentalized access can help establish good habits and prevent problematic dependency. Parents sometimes hand down their old iPhones as a first phone for a child in elementary school. I encourage parents to get their kids flip phones first, and wait until they have developed good overall habits before giving them a smartphone.Just as kids learn to ride bikes with training wheels or get junior licenses when they learn to drive, kids shouldn’t be expected to manage their first smartphones all by themselves. Fortunately, there are ways to manage use and help kids develop better tendencies, and much of it requires a delicate balance of parental modeling and involvement.Taking the time to discuss appropriate use, establish guidelines and come up with a family agreement before kids get a phone is ideal, because it can be harder to put rules in place afterward. Family agreements can include rules about when and how the phone may be used, and potential consequences for broken rules. Agreements are more likely to be successful if they are followed consistently and revisited frequently as kids grow older and new apps become available.For parents of teens who have smartphones, making the effort to understand how, where and why kids are spending time on their phone is critical.AdvertisementIt can be helpful to think about imbalances over a span of time rather than on a single evening or weekend. After all, binge-watching a television series on a smartphone while feeling sick or heartbroken isn’t the same as lying about phone use over an extended period of time. An app like Moment can help track usage and display the time spent in each app.Apple’s Family Sharing and Google Play have settings to help parents monitor use, and most phone carriers have their own parental control options. Devices like Circle and apps like OurPact give parents the ability to automate access, disable access to certain apps after a certain hour and build in structured time off to promote rest. The psychologist Larry Rosen, who has researched technology and the brain and is a co-author of “The Distracted Mind: Ancient Brains in a High-Tech World,” said one of the most important steps is to remove the phone from the bedroom at night.Of course, parents trying to set healthy guidelines for smartphone use may themselves be struggling with similar issues: The 2015 Pew survey found that 46 percent of American adults believed they could not live without their smartphones. Teens aren’t the only ones we need to worry about when it comes to smartphone addiction — adults should consider their habits as well.Ana Homayoun is the author, most recently, of “Social Media Wellness: Helping Teens and Tweens Thrive in an Unbalanced Digital World.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsBy Frank Bruni, Greta Gerwig and Aaron SorkinFrank Bruni, a Times Op-Ed columnist, hosted an online conversation with Greta Gerwig, the writer and director of “Lady Bird” (winner of two Golden Globe Awards, one for best motion picture, musical or comedy), and Aaron Sorkin, the writer and director of “Molly’s Game” (a Globe nominee for best motion picture screenplay), about their movies, the year in movies and the year, period.FRANK BRUNI: Greta, Aaron, welcome! It’s so great to have you here. Congratulations on your new movies, and Greta, congratulations on the Golden Globe wins for “Lady Bird.” This soon after the Globes, it’s impossible not to begin by asking this: Are we witnessing a true turning point for women in Hollywood, in terms of the way they’re treated and portrayed and the opportunities they get, or is that too hopeful?GRETA GERWIG: Thank you! It was an extraordinary night — I was lucky enough to be sitting at Aaron’s table, and I think that he can attest to my general state of euphoria.AARON SORKIN: I’ll add my congratulations to Greta and the whole “Lady Bird” team on their Golden Globe wins (as well as this morning’s Bafta nominations — I’ll see you in London), and I can indeed attest to the euphoria at Table 3. (Though there always seems to be a cloud of euphoria that surrounds Greta wherever she goes.)GERWIG: I think that this is a turning point for women, especially as writers, directors and producers. There was such incredible work done this year by women — Dee Rees (“Mudbound”), Patty Jenkins (“Wonder Woman”), Angelina Jolie (“First They Killed My Father”), Maggie Betts (“Novitiate”), Kathryn Bigelow (“Detroit”) and so many more — that I have great belief in the future of filmmaking being much closer to a 50-50 split between male and female creators. There are too many great filmmakers leading the charge for this not to be a turning point.SORKIN: I thought Sunday night was a trumpet fanfare that did a good job of getting our attention. Now what I’m hoping for is specificity — what can I do differently today than I was doing yesterday? Without specificity, I worry that #MeToo will go the way of Occupy Wall Street, and it would be terrible to blow this opportunity.BRUNI: I have to cop to some divided feelings and cynicism as I watched the Globes, because all these people were congratulating themselves on their fight for women’s rights, but many of these same people turned a blind eye or deaf ear to what was going on for a long time. I heard vows. I didn’t hear apologies. Did that strike or bother either of you?SORKIN: I’m someone who was completely ignorant of the sexually monstrous behavior that’s been reported for the last few months, so I wasn’t listening for an apology. Again, I was hoping for specific instructions. A locker room pep talk serves a good purpose, but it’s usually followed by, “We’ve got to move to zone coverage instead of playing man-to-man” (no pun intended).GERWIG: To speak to Aaron’s earlier point about specificity, I think that the way women have come together to lead the Time’s Up movement and to make clear goals for our industry is how we are going to move forward with purposefulness. I was very moved that the stage was given to the leaders of this movement and the people who can be change agents. These are the women who should be apologized to, and that they were given the space was meaningful. The fact that many of the women attended with feminist activists from across all industries made the night even more resonant with this moment.BRUNI: Both of your movies have strong, multifaceted women at their center. And Aaron, you’ve written many great women characters. Do either or both of you ascribe to the “female gaze” theory that — and I’m translating it roughly and sloppily — a woman filmmaker has a perspective that invariably leads to different kinds of characters and stories than a male filmmaker would produce?GERWIG: Aaron, you’ve created incredible female characters for your whole career, and I’ve always loved watching what the genius lady actors do with your magic words. I think all writers and artists are capable of imagining themselves into circumstances that aren’t necessarily theirs and creating a space of empathy and understanding so the audience can walk in someone else’s shoes. But I think that it is important to have female authors, and in general a diversity of authors — the frame and the perspective will necessarily be different, just as it is different from one individual to the next.SORKIN: I couldn’t agree more with Greta when it comes to the importance of having a diversity of authors. That said, we shouldn’t be lured into thinking that all women think the same way and all men think the same way. I think there’s as much difference between, say, Greta and Patty Jenkins as there is between Greta and me.GERWIG: Aaron, you said perfectly what I was trying to articulate. I don’t want to lump people together by gender, even though I think the diversity is important.BRUNI: Amen to all of that. It makes me want to dig a little deeper and ask: Where does each of you come down on the whole controversy over “cultural appropriation”? Can a white author write black characters? Can Emma Stone play a character who’s part Asian?SORKIN: This is a tricky area. I’m in New York right now doing a workshop of “To Kill a Mockingbird,” which I’ve adapted for the stage, and so I’m writing a number of African-American characters. I have a utopian view of the arts — I want everyone to be able to write about anything. August Wilson wrote about the black experience in 20th-century America, but I would hope that he could have just as easily written “Death of a Salesman.” I think an Asian actor should be able to play the Prince of Denmark. On the other hand, crossing over into blackface raises memories of a time when that was meant to relegate a whole group of people to objects of amusement. It’s a tough one. Artists are meant to be leaders and to take risks, and sometimes when you take a risk you’re going to hit the third rail.GERWIG: I think that having this conversation is essential and that we, as a culture, are just figuring out how to have it with nuance and sensitivity. As an artist I want to be able to be inclusive and tell all different kinds of stories, but I also don’t want to tell a story that would be better told by another author.SORKIN: Greta, unsurprisingly, just said it better than I did.BRUNI: Let me get one last hot-button issue out of the way before we move back to your specific movies and … the upcoming Oscars! Will Kevin Spacey work again? Should he? This question came up with Roman Polanski, it comes up with Woody Allen. Should we care about, reward or punish what artists do beyond the parameters of their art? Should it affect their opportunities? Their reception?GERWIG: I would like to speak specifically to the Woody Allen question, which I have been asked about a couple of times recently, as I worked for him on a film that came out in 2012. It is something that I take very seriously and have been thinking deeply about, and it has taken me time to gather my thoughts and say what I mean to say. I can only speak for myself and what I’ve come to is this: If I had known then what I know now, I would not have acted in the film. I have not worked for him again, and I will not work for him again. Dylan Farrow’s two different pieces made me realize that I increased another woman’s pain, and I was heartbroken by that realization. I grew up on his movies, and they have informed me as an artist, and I cannot change that fact now, but I can make different decisions moving forward.SORKIN: I don’t like seeing anyone get disappeared. Personally, I don’t think Kevin’s going to be able to find his way back, but I’m still rooting for a miraculous transformation.BRUNI: Thank you both for your candor. In reward: a happier topic! We’re in the midst right now of people casting votes for the Oscar nominations, which will be announced on Jan. 23 and may well include both of your names. From a cultural standpoint, how much does who and what gets nominated — and who and what wins — really matter? Can you think of a nominee or victor that really changed America by dint of that recognition?SORKIN: It’s sort of a two-part question, so I’ll answer in two parts. Most of the films in the awards conversation this year are lower-budget films (“Dunkirk” and a few others notwithstanding). High-profile award nominations give films like “Lady Bird” and “Molly’s Game” a reach they wouldn’t otherwise have. As for a nomination or a win that changed the culture? I’ll go with Hattie McDaniel.GERWIG: I do think it matters — when Kathryn Bigelow won the Oscar for best director it meant a great deal to me, personally. I imagine that it impacted other young women as well who had dreams of being a director. Suddenly, there she was, and more seemed possible to me. Also, I love the Mark Harris book “Pictures at a Revolution,” which I think does an amazing job of looking at a moment of culture through the best-picture nominees of 1968 and what it meant for a changing Hollywood and a changing country.BRUNI: Aaron, I have to ask about the White House. You created fictional administrations in “The West Wing” and “The American President,” stretching the truth. Could you ever have stretched it so far as to come up with something like the Trump administration?SORKIN: If I wrote a Trumpian White House, no one would believe it, but furthermore, no one would care. Donald Trump isn’t an interesting dramatic character. You can learn everything you need to know about him in 140 characters. Josiah Bartlet sweated over dilemmas. Trump sweats over bad press.BRUNI: “Lady Bird” and “Molly’s Game” are classic examples of character-driven stories, dependent on nuance and pace and subtlety, and we hear constantly about how hard it can be to get such movies made in the blockbuster, explosion-in-the-final-reel era. Is the expansion of other formats — Netflix, Amazon, etc. — creating more opportunities along these lines, or are you still swimming against the current?GERWIG: Yes, I think Netflix and Amazon are creating new space for great writing, great acting and great directing, and new ways for audiences to watch different kinds of stories — movies, mini-series, long-form television, episodic television. All of that is very exciting for me as a fan of good work — there is so much of it! That being said, I have a soft spot for the experience of watching films in a movie theater. I’m essentially stealing this from Walter Murch’s afterword to “In the Blink of an Eye,” but I think that being in a movie theater puts you in a place of both collective experience and vulnerability that is impossible to achieve at home. I’m paraphrasing, but he said something close to this: Going to the movies always starts with one person saying to another, “Let’s go out.” And that means that you are willingly taking yourself out of your comfort zone and allowing yourself the possibility of transformation. I like that, and even if it is something that is swimming against the current, I think I’m just going to keep at it. I’m a good swimmer.SORKIN: I’m right with Greta on this. I want to believe that nothing will ever replace the experience of being in a theater with a group of strangers as the house lights go down. I’m grateful that Amazon and Netflix have come on the scene. I’m grateful for studios like STX. I try to write movies like the movies I loved growing up — “All About Eve,” “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,” “Broadcast News” — these are dialogue-driven movies with reasonable budgets. Those are the kinds of movies that are most in danger right now. If I knew how to write a hundred-million-dollar movie, I’d be on safer ground.BRUNI: Aaron, I can’t lose the opportunity of having you here to ask you, as the writer of “The Social Network,” what you made of Facebook’s role in the last presidential election. Did you see that coming? Are you satisfied or hopeful that Mark Zuckerberg and his crew can and will make the necessary fixes?SORKIN: I know less about 2018 Facebook than I do about 2005 Facebook, but no, I absolutely didn’t anticipate the role that the site played in last year’s election. I wonder if there’s another movie there, and if so, how I can crank the budget up to a hundred million dollars.BRUNI: And a final question to you, Greta, along with a thanks to both of you for your time — and for your work. You’re younger than many of your peers in Hollywood — certainly than other directors of movies as skilled and celebrated as “Lady Bird.” Does that change your perspective on stories and on the industry? Does it inform what you expect from your career?GERWIG: It felt like it took me so long to get to the place of writing and directing my own film, but now I feel that it’s just the beginning. When I was in preproduction for “Lady Bird,” I realized that it had been exactly 10 years of being in the industry. I am grateful for all the love that “Lady Bird” has received, especially because it allows me to do what I’ve always wanted to do, which is make more movies. And because I’m in this position of privilege, I believe I have an obligation to help other women make their movies. I don’t want to be a soloist, I want to be in an orchestra, and there are so many talented people who haven’t gotten their first shot.SORKIN: It was either John Lennon or Paul McCartney who said, I’d rather have a band than a Rolls-Royce. I know how he felt. I like team sports more than individual sports. I like bands more than solo acts. I’ve gotten to play with some of the best bands ever.BRUNI: We are, sadly, out of time. Promise to come back again. Promise more movies. And good luck during the rest of the awards seasons. Thanks.GERWIG: I promise! Thank you so much for having us both here. Aaron, it is just as thrilling to watch you type as I knew it would be.SORKIN: I was just going to say it was a thrill watching your brain work. Thanks, Frank, and keep up the great work. See you soon, G.G.Frank Bruni is a Times Op-Ed columnist. Greta Gerwig is the writer and director of “Lady Bird.” Aaron Sorkin is the writer and director of “Molly’s Game.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.Advertisement
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
JAN. 18, 2018
Updated, 11:14 a.m.Good morning on this bright Thursday.Here’s something you might not expect to find at a farmers’ market or street parade: philosophy.For nearly two years, Ian Olasov, a doctoral candidate in philosophy at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and the founder of Brooklyn Public Philosophers, has set up an “Ask-a-Philosopher” booth in places like Union Square. There, he and fellow philosophers help passers-by with questions tougher than how to get where they are going.The most common question they get (not surprisingly, he said) concerns the meaning of life.“But there are other questions of pressing popular concern that people might not recognize as philosophical,” said Mr. Olasov, 31. “‘What does it mean to say that race or gender are socially constructed?’ ‘What is money?’ ‘What makes Bitcoin money?’”During this volatile time in our country, the conversation has also shifted considerably, he added.“One thing that strikes me is how much public talk there is about how we can ‘know’ things or how the institutions that create and disseminate knowledge should be organized — like the press,” Mr. Olasov told us. “Or the role of experts in a democracy. Or what makes scientific institutions trustworthy?”AdvertisementOne way to join the discussion: the Night of Philosophy and Ideas.The overnight philosophy marathon on Jan. 27, from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. at the Brooklyn Public Library, will bring  philosophers and the public together for debate, performances and more. (It’s free, and you can see the schedule here.)AdvertisementLast year’s event, which took place a week after President Trump’s inauguration and hours after the first travel ban was announced, drew thousands of attendees. Mr. Olasov remembered the message of the opening address: “We’re at a place where all across the world, people are dissatisfied with the basic structure of society — somehow, liberalism and capitalism and globalization are failing people — and we need to think about it.”“There was this really intense and lovely sense of common purpose for the night — the sense of a bunch of people who may or may not be like-minded but are committed to reasoning together and trying to figure things out,” he said.If you can’t make the marathon, check out these other local and online forums: Brooklyn Public Philosophers, the Gotham Philosophical Society, and The Stone from The New York Times.Here’s what else is happening:Nothing but blue skies do I see.It’s not exactly warm. But a succession of sunny days lies ahead, with temperatures in the 30s today and then in the 40s through Sunday.• A New Jersey law now threatens the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, whose mission of the past 65 years has been to root out corruption along the New York and New Jersey waterfront. [New York Times]• Hundreds of Yemeni immigrants were notified by the State Department last year that their visas were approved, but since the president’s travel ban recently went into effect, they have been rejected. [New York Times]• Despite giving away his large donations from Harvey Weinstein, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has still amassed a $30.5 million campaign chest. [New York Times]Advertisement• To avoid the death penalty, the man accused of killing eight people on a Manhattan bike path will plead guilty and offered to spend life in prison without parole. [New York Times]• After a spate of deadly bicycle accidents in the past year, New York City is looking to install protected crosstown bike lanes. [New York Times]• Libby Leist, a veteran “Today” show producer, will be promoted to executive producer and be the first woman to hold the top producing role of the show’s first two hours. [New York Times]• A less expensive alternative to many New York City suburbs, Hackensack seeks to attract millennials by building additional housing. [New York Times]• Nostalgic ’90s reality television fans may be excited to hear a rendition of “The Jerry Springer Show” will be coming to New York, in the form of an opera. [New York Times]• A homeless shelter is slated for a former hotel on 58th Street right behind the city’s most expensive apartment building. Neighbors are dismayed. [New York Post]• Brooklyn’s borough president will offer a mobile shower unit for the borough’s homeless, with hope that the rest of the city will follow. [CBS New York]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A new report found that excess traffic congestion in New York City is costing the city $20 billion a year. [New York Post]• The New York City Housing Authority is kicking off a program for residents to earn college credit in exchange for participating in leadership workshops. [Metro]Advertisement• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Evening at the Embers”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• “ReVISION,” an exhibition by local artists who worked with materials from the metalworking factory below the gallery, opens at Edison Price Lighting Gallery in Long Island City. 5:30 p.m. [Free]• Learn about city government departments and officials — and how to influence them — at Pelham Fritz Recreation Center in Marcus Garvey Park in Harlem. 6 p.m. [Free]• “Teas of Asia,” a talk on the evolution of the drink — from its origins in China to present-day New York — at the Museum of Food and Drink in Williamsburg. 6:30 p.m. [$20, tickets here]• Writers from “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah” perform improv comedy at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Hell’s Kitchen. 9:30 p.m. [$9]• The New York Jewish Film Festival, hosted by the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the Jewish Museum, continues at Walter Reade Theater on the Upper West Side. Times vary. [$15]• Devils host Capitals, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Islanders host Bruins, 7 p.m. (MSG+2). Rangers host Sabres, 7:30 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.AdvertisementGrab the popcorn.Last year, the Mayor’s Office of Media and Entertainment and the film school at Brooklyn College held a screenwriting contest for shows by, for or about New York City women.After poring over more than 300 submissions, the judges have narrowed it down to two finalists: Patty Carey and Robin Rose Singer are about to have their local television debuts.Ms. Singer’s script, “Maturity,” is about a woman who moved from the Midwest to New York, where she finds work at a Bronx nursing home and meets an interesting cast of characters.Ms. Carey’s script, “Half-Life,” is about motherhood — and juggling its responsibilities with the protagonist’s day job (as a location scout) and dream job (as a writer).You can tune in to the pilot episodes at 10 p.m. on Friday and Saturday on NYC Life, or watch them online, and vote for your favorite show; the winner will have the opportunity to produce and air four more episodes.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 17, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• More on one of the greatest spy leaks in U.S. history:F.B.I. investigators gambled in 2013 that letting a C.I.A. officer suspected of spying for China slip out of the United States could help them piece together how Beijing decimated an American spy network.Nearly five years later, when the former officer made a surprise return to the United States this week, the F.B.I. hurried to arrest him upon arrival._____• Stephen Bannon, President Trump’s former chief strategist, has agreed to be interviewed by investigators working for the special counsel in the Russia investigation.The deal allows Mr. Bannon to avoid testifying before a grand jury and is a sign that he may be cooperating with the investigation.AdvertisementSeparately, two news reports offer fresh details about Mr. Trump’s rumored sexual relationship with an adult-film actress. Mr. Trump and the actress denied the allegations, Mr. Trump’s lawyer said.Advertisement_____• Britain’s House of Commons approved a bill to sever the country’s ties with the European Union. It is now headed to the more pro-European House of Lords.Facebook told lawmakers that it was reopening and broadening an internal investigation into the possibility that Russia had used the platform to influence the 2016 Brexit referendum.President Emmanuel Macron of France is expected in Britain today for talks on security and the impact of Brexit on France’s north. (He is also expected to announce a loan of the 11th-century Bayeux Tapestry, above.)_____• In Germany, a recent deadly stabbing has become Exhibit A for those arguing that Chancellor Angela Merkel’s migration policy has increased the risk of violent crime.The murder shows how the debate on migration has reached a new and fevered stage, our Berlin bureau chief writes.Mrs. Merkel hosted her Austrian conservative counterpart, Sebastian Kurz, in Berlin. Unlike Mrs. Merkel, Mr. Kurz rose to power in part by co-opting much of the far-right’s political agenda._____• Score one for the power of sports.North and South Korea agreed to have their athletes march together under a “unified Korea” flag at the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics next month. The two nations will also field a joint women’s ice hockey team.AdvertisementThe moves are “the most dramatic gesture of reconciliation between the two nations in a decade,” our veteran Korea correspondent writes. (They also upend U.S. strategy.)What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• U.S. stocks have risen for so long that Wall Street is becoming nervous. What’s an investor to do? For insight, check out our latest quarterly report on investing.• Apple plans to bring back the majority of the $252 billion in cash that it has long held abroad, capitalizing on the Republican tax law.• Britain  fears a domino effect in layoffs among subcontractors of Carillion, the major construction and services company forced into liquidation.• Google is helping businesses build their own A.I. algorithms, even if they are novices.• Changing fortunes: Goldman Sachs reported its first loss since 2011. Car sales in Europe recovered to reach their highest level in 10 years. And IBM’s yearslong losing streak could end today.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• The U.N. agency that aids Palestinian refugees said it was facing the worst financial crisis in its seven-decade history after the U.S. withheld funding. [The New York Times]• In northern Nigeria, a double suicide bombing at a market killed at least 12 people and wounded 48 others. [Associated Press]• American troops will remain in Syria long after their fight against the Islamic State has ended, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said. [The New York Times]Advertisement• As the pope arrives in Peru, the Vatican’s handling of sexual abuse in a Catholic organization there has raised questions. [The New York Times]• Catalan lawmakers elected a secessionist politician as speaker of the regional Parliament. [Associated Press]• The British government has appointed a minister for tackling widespread loneliness and its impact on mental and physical health. [The New York Times]• Romania’s president agreed to appoint Viorica Dancila, a European Parliament lawmaker, as the country’s first female prime minister. [Balkan Insight]• Ahead of elections in April, Hungary’s governing Fidesz party has stepped up its populist campaign against George Soros, the Hungarian-American billionaire. [Politico]• The French government abandoned a decades-old plan to build a major airport near Nantes. Disagreements with activist squatters remain. [The Guardian]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: Skip delivery and make Hunan beef at home.• “Should I buy Bitcoin?” may be the wrong question.• Battle forgetfulness with these great tips.AdvertisementA sexual-misconduct allegation against the comedian Aziz Ansari adds a new dimension to discussions of dating norms and consent.• A sexual-misconduct allegation against the comedian Aziz Ansari, above, adds a new dimension to discussions of dating norms and consent.• In Rome, a course aims to teach taxi drivers hospitality and useful phrases in Chinese and Arabic. “It’s important to make people understand that not every taxi driver is a bandit,” one operator said.• “Drag has finally arrived at the place it deserves in pop culture, in a way that cannot be ignored,” one aficionado said.• And is that you in that centuries-old work of art? A Google app that compares selfies with artwork is the most downloaded app in the U.S. (In Europe, you can give it a try by using an American VPN service.)• A cloudy Moscow got only six minutes of sunlight during the entirety of December, making it the darkest month since the city began recording the data. Someone called it “Hillary’s revenge.”Double your money in just 90 days. Better yet, make it 45.That’s what Charles Ponzi, who died 69 years ago today, promised investors. In the end, Ponzi swindled more than $15 million in 1920, the equivalent of $191 million today.The trickery earned Ponzi his own namesake scheme, made notorious by Bernard Madoff, who defrauded clients of more than $50 billion. But the original scheme centered on postal notes.Ponzi took advantage of international postal reply coupons, which allowed postal customers in one country to buy a coupon redeemable for stamps in another country.AdvertisementMoney was invested through Ponzi’s Security Exchange Company with the idea that he would take investors’ dollars, use them to buy foreign postal coupons, convert each coupon into a 5-cent stamp, and convert the stamps into cash.But Ponzi never invested in the coupons.Instead, he collected the money and paid off his investors while waiting for another influx of cash to come in. Millions of dollars began arriving every week from working-class people.Ponzi’s scheme was eventually exposed, and he later died in a charity hospital in Brazil, with only $75 to his name.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 16, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Dolores O’Riordan, the lead singer of the Irish alternative rock group the Cranberries, has died in London at age 46. Her death is being treated as “unexplained,” the police said.Fans offered tributes on social media. “She was part of my DNA, the soundtrack to my life,” one wrote.Ms. O’Riordan’s vocal stylings, which showed a Celtic influence, were central to the group’s appeal. She was the sole writer of the noisy, angry “Zombie,” a response to an Irish Republican Army terrorist bombing in 1993._____• There was no immediate claim of responsibility for two suicide bombings in Baghdad on Monday morning that shattered Iraq’s growing sense of security and hope.AdvertisementMore than two dozen people were killed. Security officials have cast suspicion on Islamic State sleeper cells.AdvertisementSeparately in neighboring Syria, Turkey’s president vowed to “strangle” a proposed American-trained force that could put thousands of Kurdish militia fighters near its southern border._____• On Martin Luther King’s Birthday, Americans reflected on the legacy of the civil rights leader.In interviews, black Americans, including two of Dr. King’s children, expressed frustration and disappointment about the direction of the United States in President Trump’s first year in office.“I’ve been involved in the civil rights movement since my college days, and I’m not sure I’ve ever been more confused than I am right now,” one 94-year-old activist said._____• In Riyadh, the Saudi capital, the planned reopening next month of a luxury hotel is signaling that mass arrests tied to what the authorities have called a crackdown on corruption are winding down.The hotel had served as a posh prison for princes and business executives.A film on emoji (our critic’s review was harsh) was among the first to be screened publicly in the ultraconservative Islamic kingdom after the government ended a decades-old ban on cinemas last month._____• Meet Nice Leng’ete. She started a program in Kenya that is creating a new rite of passage to replace female genital cutting.AdvertisementIn seven years, she has helped 50,000 girls avoid the agonizing and controversial ritual.Her work mirrors national and global trends. Rates of female genital cutting worldwide have fallen 14 percent in the last 30 years._____• Alexa, Google Assistant and other voice-based virtual assistants are everywhere. But what are we doing with them?Many people use assistants for just basic tasks, like getting the weather forecast or music.It’s still a long way from the digital home envisioned by their makers.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• The Airbus A380, the world’s largest passenger aircraft, may no longer be manufactured if its only major buyer, Emirates, does not order any more.• Greek lawmakers  approved new austerity measures demanded by international creditors, including cuts to some family benefits and restrictions on trade unions.• The collapse of Carillion, Britain’s second-largest construction firm, has raised questions about the outsourcing of public services to private companies.• 2019 might become the year a Chinese carmaker will enter the U.S. market, possibly in partnership with Fiat Chrysler.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain, above, has threatened to prolong his government’s direct rule over Catalonia if separatist lawmakers try to allow Carles Puigdemont to run the region from exile. [The New York Times]Advertisement• Mihai Tudose is Romania’s second prime minister to resign in less than seven months over a dispute with Liviu Dragnea, the powerful leader of the governing Social Democrats. [The New York Times]• Russia’s Justice Ministry has filed a lawsuit to shut down a company that Aleksei Navalny, the Kremlin’s leading critic, uses to finance his political campaigning. [Associated Press]• In central Russia, two masked teenagers armed with knives stormed a school, wounding at least 12 people. The motive was not immediately clear. [The New York Times]• Many Iranians are suspicious of official accounts of “suicides” by some young men who had been imprisoned after recent protests. [The New York Times]• In a deadly shootout that transfixed Venezuela, security forces surrounded the hide-out of a rebel band led by a rogue helicopter pilot who was once an action movie actor. [The New York Times]• A California couple is accused of holding 13 of their children captive, some shackled to beds. A 17-year-old girl escaped and alerted the police. [The New York Times]• In Denmark, about 1,000 adults and adolescents may face prosecution on child pornography charges for sharing video through Facebook of teenagers having sex. [The New York Times]• Our most-read Op-Ed today debates the actor Aziz Ansari’s behavior, the #MeToo movement and the difference between “bad sex” and sexual assault. [The New York Times]AdvertisementTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Magnesium,  found in leafy green vegetables, might help you sleep.• Here are four simple tips for working from home.• Recipe of the day: If you’re a fan of French cooking, you’ll love Mark Bittman’s chicken with vinegar.• Our latest interactive looks back on the fraught events of 1968 and imagines, if there had been smartphones, the flurry of notifications that might have accompanied each twist and turn.• A 910-carat diamond was discovered in Lesotho. Worth tens of millions of dollars, it is the fifth-biggest gem-quality diamond ever found.• Maria Sharapova cruised through the first round of the Australian Open.• A switch from the Cyrillic to Roman script is wildly popular in Kazakhstan, except for all those pesky apostrophes.• Kigali, the capital of Rwanda, is a proud city, with an energetic art scene and great dining and coffee. Here’s our guide.• And Besançon, the French capital of watch manufacturing, is making a comeback.The event 80 years ago today would be historic, The Times announced: The first swing concert at Carnegie Hall in New York City. Benny Goodman, the jazz clarinetist, would perform.“The event will be decisive in the history of swing,” a Times writer declared later in 1938. “What will it sound like in this strange milieu of righteousness and uplift, and what will be its effect on swing?”AdvertisementFans of swing were concerned that exposure to New York’s elite would eventually rob the grass-roots genre of its “elusiveness, its absolute freedom from technique or rules.”Those fears were dispelled by Mr. Goodman’s success in captivating the audience.Carnegie Hall “had never seen an audience that behaved this way: listeners who not only listened but swayed to the music, made sounds and seemed ready to break into some kind of hysterical dance,” The Times reported. Above, Mr. Goodman at Carnegie Hall in 1982.Our critic found the music liberating in a dark era of totalitarian ideologies. “It is not so much a doctrine set to music as it is a revolt against doctrine.”“If the individual has his unhampered say in music, he may manage to have it in other fields,” he wrote. “Dictators should be suspicious of swing.”_____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
JAN. 16, 2018
Good morning on this sleepy Tuesday.It will be 80 degrees and glowing in New York City today.(Well, at least in one little slice of the Upper West Side.)“It’s like a bright, sunny day in here,” said Hazel Davies, who oversees the Butterfly Conservatory, a lush tropical bubble inside the American Museum of Natural History. “In the winter, it’s warm and it’s full of color and movement.”There are nearly 600 butterflies floating around the vivarium today, and over the course of the eight-month exhibition, tens of thousands of butterflies — from as far away as Australia and Africa — have glided through.“I particularly like butterflies because I think they’re the ambassador insects,” Ms. Davies told us during a recent visit. (Almost on cue, an orange longwing landed on her head to listen.) “Anybody that’s really scared of insects generally likes butterflies because they’re pretty. If we can get people to come and look at them because they think butterflies are beautiful, then we can also tell them lots of other things about insects.”AdvertisementWhen we stepped off the icy city streets into the conservatory, which is kept at 80 percent humidity to emulate the butterflies’ homes, we almost instantly began sweating through our sweaters. The butterflies, on the other hand, seemed quite relaxed.AdvertisementGreen birdwings from Papua New Guinea and Australia, the most exotic of the museum’s collection, basked on nectar plants. Atlas moths from Asia, the largest in the display, dozed peacefully on flowers. Morpho butterflies and Ulysses swallowtails flashed electric blue as they fed on juice from oranges and bananas.We wondered: How are these butterflies — thousands of them — transported across oceans?Faraway farms raise the caterpillars until they pupate, or become a chrysalis. This is the ideal time to ship the soon-to-be butterflies because they don’t eat or drink during this stage. The farmers collect the chrysalides, wrap them in soft cotton, foam or toilet tissue, place them in boxes, and send them (DHL Express or FedEx) from their skies to ours.When Ms. Davies receives the parcels — each packed delicately with about 100 chrysalides — she and her team open them inside the museum’s quarantine lab. They check the specimens carefully, like doctors examining their patients, and nurture the healthy ones until the butterflies emerge and can be released in the conservatory to mingle with New Yorkers.“They particularly like to land on people when you get quite sweaty, because they like to take in salts from sweat,” Ms. Davies said. “They love bald men’s heads. They’re looking for a perch, and some of them like legs because they think it’s a tree trunk.”“So if you’d like to come in and just stand here and sweat and feed the butterflies,” she added, “they’d love it.”Here’s what else is happening:Not a bad time to visit a tropical bubble.Temperatures will hover around freezing today and tomorrow, and we may see some flurries on both days.Oh, and things aren’t warming up anytime soon.• A lawyer told a jury that his client had murdered three people, against the client’s request. Now, the Supreme Court will hear arguments as to whether what he did was constitutional. [New York Times]• Some preservationists are upset that only the exterior of the office building at 550 Madison Avenue might become an official landmark and not the interior. [New York Times]Advertisement• Jumaane D. Williams, a city councilman from Brooklyn, said he was opening an exploratory committee to unseat the current lieutenant governor. [New York Times]• Despite accusations from a former staffer that he made unwanted advances toward her, Senator Jeffrey D. Klein has resisted calls for his resignation. [New York Times]• After the board of New Jersey Transit rescheduled its monthly meeting for Martin Luther King’s Birthday, a crowd of Hoboken residents showed up to protest. [New York Times]• Music therapy is becoming more prevalent in nursing homes and hospices across the city, where it has been shown to improve a patient’s quality of life. [New York Times]• A debate over how to curb wolflike coyotes, or “coywolves,” continues to intensify in the rural New York community of Clarkstown. [New York Times]• The Lower East Side’s popular Sunshine Cinema will hold its last screenings, Landmark Theatres confirmed Friday. [AM New York]• A Republican candidate for governor wants to legalize recreational marijuana to help fix the subways. [Daily News]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• It’s now illegal in New Jersey to sell or posses a “bump stock,” the controversial firearm accessory used by the gunman in last year’s Las Vegas massacre. [NJ.com]Advertisement• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Not Quite Fitting the Description”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• It’s Day 1 of Broadway Week, with two-for-one tickets to more than a dozen theater productions on Broadway. Showtimes and ticket prices vary.• The New York Jewish Film Festival, hosted by the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the Jewish Museum, continues at Walter Reade Theater on the Upper West Side through Jan. 23. Times vary. [$15]• Visit the Whimsical Winter Wonder photo shoot, where families can take pictures with Wanderlust the Unicorn, the Crescent Moon and other fantasy props, at Poe Park in the Bronx. 2:30 p.m. [Free]• Harlem Stage celebrates the Ella Fitzgerald centennial, honoring her life and work with a performance at Harlem Stage Gatehouse on Convent Avenue. 7 p.m. [$250, tickets here]• Islanders vs. Devils, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Rangers host Flyers, 7 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.This week marks 45 years since Roe v. Wade.The ruling, one of the most prominent Supreme Court decisions in our country’s history, legalized abortion in the United States on Jan. 22, 1973.Advertisement(“Roe,” the anonymous plaintiff in the case, was Norma McCorvey of Texas, who was trying to get an abortion there. The defendant, “Wade,” was Henry Wade, then the Dallas County district attorney, who supported a Texas law forbidding abortion unless it would save the mother’s life.)But the landmark ruling has always incited heated debate.In New York, amid worries that the Supreme Court could soon try and overturn the ruling, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has proposed writing Roe v. Wade into our state constitution to guarantee that these rights and protections remain in place.You can learn more about the past, present and future of Roe v. Wade tonight at the Brooklyn Historical Society, when reproductive rights experts will lead the discussion “45 Years after ‘Roe v. Wade.’”New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
JAN. 17, 2018
Updated, 9:15 a.m.Good morning on this gloppy Wednesday.Rain is gradually changing to snow across the city. By morning’s end, we could see up to an inch as temperatures hover just above freezing.This weather may not feel great to you, but it creates ideal conditions for the flu virus, which — it’s true — lives longer and reproduces faster in the cold: The protective layer around the virus is stronger in the cold, enabling it to live longer and replicate more quickly.We asked local experts — Dr. Katharine Miao, a medical director at CityMD, and Dr. Mirella Salvatore, an infectious disease specialist at Weill Cornell Medicine and NewYork-Presbyterian — to fact-check that and other commonly held beliefs about the contagious disease.True or false? “The flu is worse this year.” True.New York, along with the rest of the country, is seeing an uptick in cases of the flu this winter.Advertisement“Every year, it’s a big problem,” Dr. Salvatore said, “but this year one of the reasons people are getting worried is because the strain circulating is one of the H3N2 family, a virus that compared to the H1N1 is known to be more severe and less responsive to the vaccine.”Advertisement“It’s too late to get the vaccine.” False.“The flu season can last through April,” Dr. Miao said, “so we are still encouraging people to get it.” Keep in mind it takes about two weeks to become immunized so sooner, better.“The shot will give me the flu.” False.“It’s there to train your immune system on how to respond to the flu,” Dr. Miao said of the flu shot, comparing it with the muscle soreness you might feel the day after a strenuous workout. “Sometimes people feel tired and achy afterwards, but it’s because your immune system is going through a training program.”“New Yorkers are more susceptible to influenza.” True.In New York City, the virus is transmitted from person to person more easily, Dr. Salvatore said, because of population density and shared public space. “New Yorkers always think they’re tough and there is nothing that can keep New Yorkers home from work or school. But we’re always using public transportation and going to the gym — places where we’re in close contact with people who are sick.”To that end, a word of advice from Dr. Miao if you are feeling sick:“Please stay home for everyone’s sake.”Here’s what else is happening:• Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo unveiled a budget plan aimed at countering President Trump’s tax changes, calling them an “economic missile” headed for New York. [New York Times]• Comptroller Scott M. Stringer, the city’s chief financial adviser, said that commercial bail bonds were too costly for defendants, many of whom are poor. [New York Times]• Philip Dunton Murphy, a Democrat, was sworn in as the 56th governor of New Jersey. [New York Times]• Lawyers in New York and across the country are urging DACA permit holders to take advantage of the opportunity and file their renewals while court decisions are pending. [New York Times]Advertisement• Governor Cuomo plans to set up geographic zones where drivers will pay fees to enter the most congested parts of the city. [New York Times]• Andy Byford began his first day taking on an undoubtedly challenging role as New York City Transit chief in the most fitting way: by riding the subway. [New York Times]• The author Naomi Wolf accused Yale University officials of blocking her from filing complaints against the famed literary critic and English professor who allegedly groped her. [New York Times]• In “About New York,” the columnist Jim Dwyer tells us about a distraught man on the subway platform and how no emergency response from transit employees left the incident to fate. [New York Times]• A preliminary survey found infectious parasitic eggs in playgrounds in the Bronx. Researchers aren’t yet sure what effect they could have on a child’s brain. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Residents of Jackson Heights have been finding warmth by eating Himalayan momos from Amdo Kitchen and Potala. [New York Times]• Businesses in New York have found a market in providing ex-suburbanites with the comforts of their pasts. [Crains New York]• New York City created or preserved over 24,500 affordable apartments last year, a record-breaking figure. [CBS New York]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Penny for Your Thoughts”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Advertisement• Join the Climate Reality Project, founded by Al Gore, for a presentation on climate change and how New Yorkers can help fight it, at the Queens Botanical Garden. 6 p.m. [Free, registration required]• The musician Wynton Marsalis speaks at the Cooper Union in NoHo. 6:30 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P. here]• The Astana Ballet Theater, Kazakhstan’s national ballet company, performs as part of a showcase of Kazakhstan culture, at Alice Tully Hall in Lincoln Center. 7 p.m. [Free]• “Ded Talks,” a comedic lecture series “highlighting the life and ideas of your favorite dearly departed celebrities,” at Caveat on the Lower East Side. 7:30 p.m. [$10]• Nets host Spurs, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks at Grizzlies, 8 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking is suspended for snow operations.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.The Women’s March returns on Jan. 20, one year into President Trump’s term.In 2017, demonstrators flocked to Washington for what was called by some a counterinauguration. In New York City, more than 750,000 people flooded Fifth Avenue and nearby streets, and round the country, marchers took to the streets of cities and towns, amplifying a conversation on reproductive rights, immigration and civil rights, among other topics.For those of you planning to participate this weekend, we ask: What are you marching for this year? And what will your sign say? Let us know by posting in the comments or send us an email at nytoday@nytimes.com, including your full name, age and the borough or city in which you live. We may contact you for possible inclusion in a New York Today column.AdvertisementIf you’re taking your children or students, we’d love to hear from them, too.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PETE WELLSJAN. 16, 2018

CreditRafal Gerszak for The New York Times        VANCOUVER, British Columbia — My introduction to Kissa Tanto’s universe began with a framed sign just inside the door. “Please fix your hair, and remove the mud from your boots,” it read, as if I’d just arrived at the end of a long journey on the back of a horse.After doing what I could to make myself presentable, I climbed the steep staircase, ducked through blue curtains, and entered the restaurant. Once I was in, I wanted to stay all night.Every detail at Kissa Tanto, from the lighting to the menus to the purple neon sign high above the pedestrians on the main thoroughfare of this city’s Chinatown, conjures an imaginary parallel world. It’s a lifelike fantasy, an approach more common lately in cocktail bars than in restaurants, where earnest wood grains, hand-thrown pottery and plain neck-to-knee aprons are the order of the day.The interior has the color palette of a David Lynch project — raspberry-sherbet barstools and ice-blue walls — and like a Lynch set, its time period is hard to place, although it most strongly suggests the 1960s. The design is meant, in part, as a tribute to the original 1962 wing of the Hotel Okura in Tokyo, which was torn down in 2015. The vinyl records by the bar refer to the Japanese jazz cafes called kissa, which flourished in the ’60s, when turntables and speakers were rarities. (That’s half the name; the other half, tanto, is Italian for “so much.”)AdvertisementThe host who met me at the head of the stairs wore a pressed white shirt and a trim little bow tie. Most of the people at the tables and the long bar were neatly dressed, too, without the straitjacketed stiffness you sometimes see at more expensive restaurants. Everybody seemed to have gotten dolled up just for the fun of it.This is a rarity in the Pacific Northwest. I can’t say it’s especially common in Los Angeles or New York right now, either. But after a decade or so of tumbling into no-reservations gastro pubs and ramen counters wearing rumpled morning-after T-shirts, diners seem to be growing curious about restaurants that offer a bit of costume drama, and invite some in return.AdvertisementThe world Kissa Tanto dreams up is so much more appealing than the one I’d left behind that I can understand why reservations usually have to be made two months out, when you can find them. In the year and a half the restaurant has been in business, drawing national attention, tables have not gotten much easier to come by, and the few that are set aside each night for walk-ins tend to be claimed minutes after the doors open at 5:30 p.m.What they will be eating could be described as Italian food made with Japanese sensibility and ingredients. Marriages of this sort are rumored to be successful in Japan, but for some reason they tend to fall apart almost anywhere else. (In Italy, Italian food is made with Italian ingredients, Japanese food with Japanese ingredients, and to suggest a different arrangement would be like bringing scuba gear to a ski slope.)After eating in other restaurants that tried to pull off Italian-Japanese fusion, I have walked out asking: Why? My first few tastes of Joël Watanabe’s cooking at Kissa Tanto made me ask: Why not?Mr. Watanabe, the executive chef, and Alain Chow, his sous-chef, never seemed to be forcing flavors to do things against their will. Three fried croquettes filled with mashed eggplant were perfectly at ease with smoky shavings of skipjack tuna and a chilled bed of gribiche sauce, lightly tart with yuzu. This was lovely.So was a salad of eggplant, lightly fried, like calamari, and arranged with pickled daikon over a smooth green chile-parsley sauce. These dishes were neither Japanese nor Italian but some third thing invented by Mr. Watanabe and Mr. Chow.
                A celebration of Canadian cuisine, from its indigenous chefs to its famous butter tarts and Caesars.            The only small bumps of the night came with the pasta course. The porchetta stuffing inside agnolotti needed a little more lubrication, and a lasagna never came together; instead of the “ragù” of sesame sausage promised by the menu, the sheets of buckwheat pasta were layered over big, flat, dry chips of sausage.AdvertisementHand-cut tajarin pasta in melted butter and mushrooms was virtually perfect, though, obviously made by a chef who understands that simplicity can be luxurious.Fried whole fish served, in the style of tempura, with soy sauce and grated daikon, has become one of Kissa Tanto’s signature dishes. I could see why; the skin, which belonged to an ocean perch the night I was there, was beautifully fried and slightly chewy, while the white flesh was absolutely tender. I was just as impressed by the cooking of a slab of sable, or Pacific cod, roasted to a golden sheen that left all the natural oils intact.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Watanabe, whose father’s side of the family is Japanese and whose mother’s side is Corsican, made his name around the corner from Kissa Tanto. As the chef of Bao Bei, which opened in 2010, he came up with a menu of Shanghainese and Taiwanese-inspired cooking that had been very gently interfered with. The best dishes there — like the tender omelet with preserved turnips, the beef tartare slicked with charred scallion oil, and the pork-shrimp won tons with Sichuan vinaigrette — weren’t exactly fusion, but they weren’t traditional, either.Whatever they were, it was something new in Chinatown. This is one of the only areas of Vancouver with low-rise buildings that have been standing for more than a century. Some still have the original recessed upper-story balconies that made the neighborhood’s architecture stand out.Chinatown was a major night-life destination in the mid-20th century, when Foo’s Ho Ho, the Marco Polo and other places lured people for dinner and a show. These places were gone by the time Bao Bei came along. Chinatown’s streets were dark, and its many back alleys were full of people doing the things people always do in back alleys. Anyone looking for serious Chinese food was likely to seek it in other parts of the city.Bao Bei’s success, not to mention the crowds looking for somewhere to kill time while waiting for a table there, inspired a night-life revival in Chinatown.One of the nicest things about Kissa Tanto is that it inhabits the neighborhood respectfully. It continues the long tradition of second-story restaurants unobtrusively tucked up above the street level. Like those vanished midcentury places, it announces its presence in neon — purple, in this case.I haven’t been able to locate a cocktail menu from Foo’s Ho Ho, but I imagine it had a Singapore Sling, as Kissa Tanto does. I’d also be willing to bet that Kissa Tanto’s is better; the cocktails are meticulously grounded in the proper techniques and ingredients.The third partner in Kissa Tanto with Mr. Watanabe and Mr. Chow is a former bartender named Tannis Ling. Ms. Ling is the founder of Bao Bei, and it’s no accident, I think, that both places display a cocktail bar-like finesse about lighting, music and other atmospheric details.AdvertisementIn Mr. Watanabe she has found a talented partner to take charge of the kitchen, but I’m glad they didn’t try to make Kissa Tanto into a chef’s showpiece. There are so many of those these days, and they all start to look alike after a while, given that chefs tend to have more ideas about cooking than interior design. Their imaginations are stuck in the kitchen.At Kissa Tanto, there’s imagination all over the place. It’s a restaurant to get lost in.KISSA TANTO 263 East Pender Street, Chinatown, Vancouver, British Columbia; 778-379-8078; kissatanto.comFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Email petewells@nytimes.com. And follow Pete Wells on Twitter: @pete_wells.Kissa Tanto, 263 East Pender Street, Chinatown, Vancouver, British Columbia; 778-379-8078; kissatanto.comA version of this review appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Culinary Conjuring.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SEAN PICCOLIJAN. 15, 2018
CONGERS, N.Y. — Of all the coyotes that roam Dr. Davies Farm, looking for prey on this apple-picking orchard less than an hour from New York City, manager James Higgins says one of the pack stands out: Bigger and with more gray fur than its mates, this wolflike canine is a reason, Mr. Higgins says, there are fewer deer nibbling at Dr. Davies’s stock.“We love having him here,” Mr. Higgins said as he drove around the property on an ad hoc coyote safari. There were no sightings, but Mr. Higgins ventured a profile of the creature: aloof, calm, uninterested in people.“Anytime he sees any kind of human activity, he bolts,” Mr. Higgins said. “As long as he stays in his space and we stay in ours, everyone works in harmony.”Not everyone shares Mr. Higgins’ fondness for this supposed hybrid predator, known by some as coywolves, which have spread from upstate to semirural New York and the New Jersey suburbs, and migrated as far into the city grid as Rikers Island and La Guardia Airport — where officials had one pack euthanized in November 2016 over the objections of animal-rights activists.AdvertisementSome who admire the creatures balk at the portmanteau name.“The word ‘coywolf’ is kind of freighted, and frankly most wildlife biologists prefer the term ‘Eastern coyote,’” said Christopher Nagy, a wildlife biologist and co-founder of Gotham Coyote, a New York City-based research project studying the animals in their new habitats. “Because these buzzwords have an impact, and the word ‘wolf’ is one of the most loaded in nature.”AdvertisementBut the name has caught on as the debate intensifies over whether to try to drive them out or let them be, and it is being bandied about in places like Clarkstown, the Rockland County municipality that includes Dr. Davies Farm.“There’s a reason we say ‘cry wolf,’ ” Patricia McCoy-Coleman, Clarkstown’s animal control officer, said. Yet even she is willing to apply the moniker to the right coyote. Ms. McCoy-Coleman calls one that she sees around town “Frankenstein” — “Frankie,” for short — because of its odd proportions. “He has a head that’s very big for his body, and it looks like someone put different parts together,” she said.Two years ago, a large, gray coyote — visibly sick with mange and seen repeatedly near one of the town’s busiest parks — was killed by the Clarkstown police. Ms. McCoy-Coleman sent two DNA samples from the animal to Gotham Coyote, hoping to learn how much wolf and dog there was in the coyote.But the animal’s genetic mix was “out of the scope of my research,” said Carol Henger, a researcher at Gotham Coyote. “All I could tell her is that it was not related to the N.Y.C. coyotes.”Whatever the animals are called, they are turning up all over Clarkstown, in parks, near schools, on residential streets, and in business and industrial corridors, residents say. They have been seen near Freedom Causeway, walking on frozen sections of DeForest Lake. Workers at Tilcon, a stone quarry in West Nyack, sometimes see them crossing the quarry floor.Last November, a plumber posted a video on Facebook of a gray coyote walking up a driveway in Nyack. “Please watch small kids, dogs and cats,” he wrote. Wolf comparisons lit up the video’s comment thread, and six days later, Clarkstown police reposted the clip with their own advisory, stating, “This coywolf has been spotted this morning in the Congers area.”Neighbors traded stories of close encounters with the coyote — or coywolf — at a meeting on Thursday at Clarkstown’s town hall in New City. About 80 people attended the “Coyote Education Seminar” hosted by Clarkstown’s senior elected official, Supervisor George Hoehmann, who said he had to address growing questions and concerns about the coyote population.Advertisement“There certainly is a fear factor, and the flames can be fanned by social media or by people talking at the corner deli,” Mr. Hoehmann said. He said it was important to give people sound information — and perspective, since the last serious episode involving a coyote in Clarkstown was five years ago, when one attacked a dog in a backyard.Noting that Clarkstown also has bald eagles and hawks, Mr. Hoehmann said, “People should be more concerned about the birds of prey swooping down and taking away cats and small dogs than coyotes.”The centerpiece of the meeting was a talk by an amateur naturalist from Mineola, N.Y., Frank Vincenti, who cuts hair for a living and, on the side, operates a nonprofit, The Wild Dog Foundation, which offers tips to municipalities that have become coywolf habitats.Mr. Vincenti, 48, described himself as “pro-coyote.” He said some audiences have reacted with open hostility to his presentation. But this group listened quietly as he related the Eastern coyote’s genetic and geographic history — “this is not Frankenstein’s monster” — as well as its hardiness, smarts and ability to adapt to almost any surroundings, and its relationship to people.“Coyotes want nothing to do with us,” Mr. Vincenti said. But he allowed that coyotes, like any wild animal, can get comfortable around people, especially if they’re indulged — and worse, fed.Mr. Vincenti and two other speakers, Ms. McCoy-Coleman and the Orangetown animal control officer, Richard Padilla, recommended steps to take with coyotes: Yell at them, run at them, carry umbrellas to wave at them and use ultrasonic, dog-frequency sound blasters — called Dazers — or air horns. This goes double, they said, for people walking pets — which, it should go without saying, should be leashed.Ann Rosenberg, a retired New York City schoolteacher, said that coexistence was not a realistic option for developmentally disabled children and young adults at the Jesse J. Kaplan School in West Nyack, which abuts a nature path used by the school.The children there can react badly, sometimes violently, even to leashed dogs, Ms. Rosenberg said. The thought of them encountering feral canines on their outdoor walks left her fearful for the students and the staff, she said.And the risk won’t be lessened “unless they are eliminated,” Ms. Rosenberg said of the coyotes. “It’s a hard truth. I’m not happy it’s the only solution, but it’s the only solution.”Dave Sanders contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: ‘Coywolf’ Sightings Grip a Rural New York Community.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ADAM NAGOURNEYJAN. 14, 2018
The false alarm about an incoming ballistic missile that sent Hawaii into a panic this weekend threatened to turn into a major embarrassment for the state and its politically endangered governor, David Y. Ige, as Hawaii officials moved to head off damage to Hawaii’s biggest industry, tourism.The Federal Communications Commission said on Sunday that its initial investigation of the mistaken alert had concluded that Hawaii did not have “reasonable safeguards or process controls in place” in its emergency notification process. The alert was sent to cellphones across Hawaii on Saturday morning when a state employee pushed the wrong button in the midst of a shift-change safety drill. It then took 38 minutes for the agency to withdraw the alert.The prospect of a battery of investigations by state and federal lawmakers, with public testimony about the timeline of events, suggested that the alert would probably be a dominant subject in Hawaii life for months to come.And it quickly emerged as an issue for Mr. Ige, 60, a soft-spoken engineer and a Democrat who is up for re-election this year, and whose leadership style had already been criticized as tepid. He held a news conference five hours after the mistake to apologize, and frequently yielded the microphone to other officials.Advertisement“This is one of the worst things that could happen to an incumbent governor who has already been criticized for his lack of leadership,” said Colin Moore, director of the Public Policy Center at the University of Hawaii. “There is no more obvious test of leadership than responding to what happened yesterday.”Advertisement“This story isn’t going to go away,” Mr. Moore said. “It’s going to haunt his re-election campaign all the way to the August primary. Everyone is going to want to talk about their story — that morning when they were terrified, and why it took the governor so long to respond.”Mr. Ige issued a statement on Sunday apologizing again for the bungled alert. “I can personally assure each and every resident and visitor that steps have already been taken by the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency to ensure that a situation of this type never happens again,” he said.Across Hawaii on Sunday, people spoke about gathering their families for what they thought would be their last moments, until the “false alarm” announcement went out.“Why did it take so long to correct the mistake?” said Jamie Higa, 34, a real estate agent. “Whoever is responsible clearly failed to do his job. The governor isn’t directly responsible for what happened, but he is our top elected official.”Representative Colleen Hanabusa, who is challenging Mr. Ige in the Democratic primary in August, repeatedly questioned in an interview why it took so long for the alert to be rescinded.“Thirty-eight minutes — and the fear and the anxiety and everything that it caused for the people and for our visitors,” she said. “This is going to have a major consequence for our visitor industry as well. Either people think we are incompetent, or we are not safe.”“The governor and his administration did not handle this correctly,” she continued. “You cannot have people driving 100 miles an hour on the freeway and having visitors shelter in place. Immediately, what he should have done is checked and verified whether it is real or not real, and if it was not real, tell people immediately, not 38 minutes later.”AdvertisementMr. Ige’s campaign issued a statement defending his handling of the event and saying that the governor had focused over the last year on ensuring that Hawaii was prepared for an attack, particularly as tensions rose between North Korea and the United States. A missile launched from North Korea would land in Honolulu in about 30 minutes, giving people very little time to prepare.“This is an inappropriate time to involve politics with the matter at hand,” said Glenna Wong, the communications director for the campaign. “Gov. David Ige has the utmost compassion for our citizens who endured yesterday’s fear and heartache, and has assured each and every resident, community and business stakeholders, and visitors that a false alert will never happen again.”“It is unfortunate that she is using yesterday’s event to draw attention to herself while offering no solution,” she said of Ms. Hanabusa.The governor’s aides said the state moved quickly to inform people that it was a false alarm in posts on Twitter and on Facebook. They blamed the delay in sending out a second alert on a flaw in the state emergency system: It had no process for recalling an erroneous message. That is now being changed, they said, and two people must now approve an alert before it is sent out.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As the crisis rose and receded in less than an hour Saturday, other officials in the state were quicker — and more visible — than the governor in trying to reassure a panicked public, including Ms. Hanabusa and Hawaii’s other representative, Tulsi Gabbard, who is also a Democrat.“His challenger was on air with a local television station before he was,” said Rebecca S. Ward, who conducts polls in the state for The Honolulu Star-Advertiser. “The governor has come under fire in the past for lack of leadership. And I’m afraid that yesterday reinforced that. I think there’s no question but that this is going to be a major hurdle for him in this re-election.”Tim Hart, 58, a construction worker spending Sunday on a beach in Kona, said he faulted Mr. Ige for keeping a low profile.“The governor really didn’t do much until hours and hours after the fact,” he said. “Tulsi Gabbard got the bull by the horns and in less than 10 minutes, she was tweeting.”Neil Abercrombie, the previous governor, whom Mr. Ige defeated in a Democratic primary in 2014, called the episode “a monumental example of failure of leadership — incredible.”Advertisement“It’s beyond incompetent,” he said. “It is stunning. It should have been rescinded instantly.”As officials tried to reconstruct exactly what happened on Saturday, a spokesman for the Pacific Command in Hawaii said the military had moved quickly to push back against the Hawaii state alert as soon as it was known to be incorrect.“Upon confirming yesterday’s message was a false alarm, Uspacom Public Affairs worked quickly to inform the public through traditional and social media channels,” Cmdr. David Benham, a military spokesman, said in an email Sunday, using an acronym for the Pacific Command. “We will use this as an opportunity to improve our internal processes as well as coordination with State authorities. “The Pacific Command first told Hawaii media that there was no approaching ballistic missile at 8:23 a.m. — about 13 minutes after Hawaii sent out the alert.Hawaii’s economy depends heavily on tourism. Ms. Hanabusa’s concern that the false alarm might discourage people from visiting the islands was shared by state tourism officials.George D. Szigeti, the president of the Hawaii Tourism Authority, called the mistake — which sent terrified tourists searching for shelter — “regrettable and completely avoidable.”“There is no cause for travelers with trips already booked to Hawaii or considering a vacation in the islands to change their plans,” he said. “Hawaii continues to be the safest, cleanest and most welcoming travel destination in the world, and the alarm created today by the false alert does not change that at all.”Barbara Tanabe contributed reporting from Honolulu; Meghan Miner Murray contributed from Kailua-Kona, Hawaii; and Eric Schmitt from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on January 15, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: False Missile Alert Looms as Black Eye for Hawaii’s Governor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JOHN ELIGON, JESS BIDGOOD and JONATHAN MARTINJAN. 14, 2018
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. — As Paul DeGregorio, a prominent Missouri Republican and former political operative, pondered whom to support for governor of Missouri in 2015, he thought he had found just the right candidate after spending about an hour with Eric Greitens.Mr. Greitens seemed to check every box: He was a political newcomer and family man whose résumé included stints as a Rhodes scholar and Navy SEAL. “I was hopeful that he would bring the change that was necessary in Missouri, and be this breath of fresh air,” Mr. DeGregorio said.But not long after Mr. Greitens won the election and took office last January, Mr. DeGregorio began to have second thoughts.The governor started to engage in the opaque insider politics that he had campaigned against. His allies set up a political nonprofit that attacked his rivals, including fellow Republicans, and Mr. Greitens openly taunted members of his own party. Then came the news on Wednesday that Mr. Greitens, 43, who is married with two children, had had an affair around the time he was assuring Mr. DeGregorio that his background was clean.Advertisement“He held so much promise because of his background,” Mr. DeGregorio said. “It just comes down to: It was all about his ego and his ambition.”AdvertisementNow this onetime rising star of the Republican Party, whose White House ambitions were something of an open secret, is mired in a political crisis that has left him alienated among many of his former champions.He is in survival mode, telephoning scores of legislators and donors in a furious scramble to contain the damage and hold on to the governorship.The maverick, confrontational style that helped Mr. Greitens win office, achieve some legislative victories and attract national attention is now hampering his efforts to weather a fierce political storm. He is on an emergency charm offensive.“This kind of an approach works very well until it doesn’t,” said John Hancock, a political strategist and former chairman of the Missouri Republican Party. “When you don’t foster relationships with the legislators that you’re serving with and when you don’t foster relationships with the press who cover the state capital on a daily basis, that all can be just fine. But when you then face a crisis, there’s no cavalry running to your defense.”Lawmakers have said that Mr. Greitens came off as smug at times and was quick to tout successes as his own. In a recent video “success story” on his Facebook page, he pours out a tin of car keys and says he will save taxpayers $500,000 by getting rid of 30 state-owned cars.Most Republicans in the State Legislature have not pulled their support for the governor over the affair, but they have not loudly defended him, either, and some have already suggested he must resign — or, one said, be impeached — if all the allegations leveled against him prove true.Mr. Greitens’s lawyer, James Bennett, said the governor was not resigning. He added that Mr. Greitens was paying him personally and that “his goal is to begin the process of making amends with people who may feel impacted by the lapse in his conduct that he has acknowledged.”AdvertisementWhile Mr. Greitens has admitted to the affair, he denied that he had threatened to release a compromising photo of the woman if she told anyone, an allegation made by the woman’s former husband in a report that aired on KMOV, a St. Louis television station. The ex-husband leaked a recording of the woman in which she brought up the photo.The woman, who has not been publicly identified and did not respond to requests for comment, requested privacy in a statement by her lawyer on Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It is very disappointing that her ex-husband betrayed her confidence by secretly, and without her knowledge, recording a private and deeply personal conversation and then subsequently released the recording to the media without her consent,” said the statement from her law firm, Knight & Simpson.Some Democrats have called on Mr. Greitens to resign. Several Republican lawmakers signed a letter asking the state attorney general, Josh Hawley, to investigate the blackmail claims. Mr. Hawley’s office said the issue was outside his jurisdiction but St. Louis’s prosecutor, Kimberly Gardner, said she was investigating.A spokesman for the governor did not respond to a request for comment on Sunday.Mr. Greitens, who has asked the people of the state for forgiveness, has made a series of calls to legislators showing contrition, reiterating his denial of any blackmail effort and assuring them there is nothing more to come. But many lawmakers in both parties are withholding judgment, allowing the investigation to take its course.“He’s going to have to figure out what’s best for him and what’s best for the state of Missouri,” said Nate Walker, a Republican state representative.Asked if Mr. Greitens should consider stepping down, Mr. Walker said, “I think that has to be an option.”Mr. Walker, one of the governor’s earliest campaign supporters from the legislature, recalled asking Mr. Greitens when he was a candidate if there was anything in his past that might come out. Mr. Greitens assured him there was not, Mr. Walker recalled.The governor’s allies have aired ads against Republican legislators, exposing one’s cellphone number. Not surprisingly, some of those who were targeted appear to be relishing the governor’s moment of crisis, such as State Senator Rob Schaaf, who tweeted Wednesday, “Stick a fork in him.” Mr. Greitens has derided his fellow lawmakers as “career politicians,” and has used harsh personal language against his ostensible political allies.Advertisement“I can see by your pupils in your beady little eyes that you’re afraid of me,” he said to Paul Wieland, a Republican state senator, in a dispute last year over a legislative pay raise.Jean Evans, a Republican state representative in her first term, said it was disappointing “to have a teammate, particularly a leader of the team, speak negatively of other members of the team.”Ms. Evans was among those who received a call from Mr. Greitens — whose wife, Sheena, was on the line as well, seeking to make amends.“I was certainly surprised and pleased that he made that effort,” she said.Todd Graves, the chairman of the Missouri Republican Party, said the governor’s style had hurt him with his political relationships but had resulted in some legislative victories, too.Mr. Greitens achieved the passage of right-to-work legislation, long a goal among the state’s Republicans. He has signed into law bills that make it more difficult to sue an employer for discrimination and restrict how much plaintiffs can receive in injury lawsuits. And he has gotten the state to withhold $140 million that was slated to be spent on low-income housing tax credits.He has not fared as well on other issues. An ethics reform bill to ban lobbyist gifts to legislators failed after questions arose about the governor’s own ethics.John Eligon reported from Jefferson City, Jess Bidgood from St. Louis, and Jonathan Martin from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on January 15, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Missouri’s Combative Governor, Mired in Sex Scandal, Tries a Charm Offensive.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ADAM GOLDMAN and JENNIFER MEDINAJAN. 12, 2018
As he meticulously planned the Las Vegas attack, the man responsible for the worst mass shooting in modern American history took elaborate steps to stymie the inevitable law enforcement investigation, according to federal court documents unsealed on Friday.The F.B.I. search warrants shed new light on the degree to which the gunman, Stephen Paddock, who killed 58 people and wounded more than 500 others when he opened fire on a crowd from a hotel room in October, planned the attack and prepared for the aftermath. One of the warrants described how Mr. Paddock “destroyed or tried to hide digital media devices.”Investigators said he used anonymous communications devices, including a prepaid cellphone, to cover his tracks and employed a “level of sophistication which is commonly found in mass casualty events.”“Paddock planned the attack meticulously and took many methodical steps to avoid detection of his plot and to thwart the eventual law enforcement investigation that would follow,” the F.B.I. said.AdvertisementMr. Paddock’s motive for the attack remains unknown.The search warrants, which were approved by judges shortly after the shooting, said three cellphones belonging to Mr. Paddock were found in his room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, including two that investigators searched and one that they could not unlock. An F.B.I. agent wrote that he believed “if there were any information related to a potential conspiracy, it would be found within” the locked phone, which used a Google operating system.AdvertisementThe search warrants detail how law enforcement focused on Marilou Danley, the girlfriend of Mr. Paddock. She has not been charged with a crime and has spoken to investigators several times, and her lawyer has said she was not aware of Mr. Paddock’s deadly plans. The investigation is continuing, and the warrants only reflect its early stages.The shots began at 10:05. Twelve bursts of gunfire later, the police broke down Stephen Paddock’s door at the Mandalay Bay. The Times mapped 30 videos to draw perhaps the most complete picture to date of what happened.“She has been identified thus far as the most likely person who aided or abetted Stephen Paddock based on her informing law enforcement that her fingerprints would likely be found on the ammunition used during the attack,” according to one of the documents.She told investigators she occasionally helped Mr. Paddock load magazines. The F.B.I. said there was no evidence that she knew of his plans or had been deceptive, but it cautioned soon after the shootings that she was still the “subject of intensive review.”Ms. Danley corroborated much of what had been previously pieced together by investigators, but she has been adamant that she had no prior knowledge of Mr. Paddock’s intention to carry out the mass shooting.According to the documents, it appears that Mr. Paddock relied on the internet to buy many of the items used in the attack, including guns and ammunition, during the 12 months leading up to it.He spent “significant time and expense prior to the attack purchasing and caching weapons” and other items, such as glass cutters and suitcases. The authorities have said he used the glass cutters so he could fire out of his hotel window at the people below, who were attending a country music concert.Much of what investigators found in the hotel room had already been made public, but the search warrants add additional details. The F.B.I. said there were hundreds of rounds of spent ammunition as well as “preloaded high-capacity magazines,” found in suitcases that Mr. Paddock had brought to the room. Investigators also found body armor, range finders and a homemade gas mask.AdvertisementInvestigators also revealed that Mr. Paddock may have been treated for “unidentified medical conditions.” In October, Ms. Danley told investigators that Mr. Paddock’s physical and mental health seemed to have deteriorated in recent months.In an affidavit submitted as part of a search warrant application, an investigator said that access to Ms. Danley’s email account could “lead investigators to determine the full scope of Stephen Paddock’s plan and Marilou Danley’s possible involvement.” The authorities also requested information about several Instagram accounts that they believed were connected to Ms. Danley.In their requests for data from Instagram, investigators said they were seeking “evidence showing the possession, use, purchase or sale of firearms, firearms accessories, ammunition or explosives by Paddock.” They also sought information about Ms. Danley’s “state of mind as it relates to the crime under investigation” and the identities of anyone who communicated with her about what would amount to violations of federal weapons laws.Ms. Danley deleted her Facebook account just hours after the attack, investigators wrote in their affidavit. At 12:30 a.m., about two-and-a-half hours after the shooting began, she changed the status of her account to private. By 2:46 a.m., she had deleted the account entirely.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In September, the court records suggested, Mr. Paddock ordered from Amazon a holographic weapon sight that investigators believe he ultimately used during the assault. On Friday night, Amazon listed the same model, which was described as “designed for close-in combat speed and versatility.” The price is $429, according to the listing, which said the sight “improves target acquisition, boosts accuracy and increases control.”The F.B.I. also discovered emails between two accounts connected to Mr. Paddock. One from early July indicated that Mr. Paddock had begun taking steps to carry out the attack, referring to a “bump stock,” an attachment that enables a semiautomatic rifle to fire faster.In an email Mr. Paddock sent on July 6 to an account that also may have belonged to him, he wrote: “try an ar before u buy. we have huge selection. located in the las vegas area.” Another email sent between the accounts read, “for a thrill try out bumpfire ar’s with a 100 round magazine.” By “ar,” Mr. Paddock appeared to be referring to rifles.The affidavit later adds that “investigators have been unable to figure out why Stephen Paddock would be exchanging messages related to weapons that were used in the attack between two of his email accounts,” and that it was possible that someone else was controlling one of the accounts. If that was the case, the investigator said, the F.B.I. needed to identify that person. Receiving a search warrant for that account “will lead investigators to determine the full scope of Stephen Paddock’s plan,” an F.B.I agent wrote to the judge.Alan Blinder and Mitch Smith contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2018, on Page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Las Vegas Gunman Carefully Covered His Tracks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOpinionBy Noah CometANNAPOLIS, Md. — Owls tend to be secretive. While there are a few American species that enjoy the daylight hours, most are nocturnal and spend their days behind thick greenery or uncannily blending into the bark of the trees they nestle against. Once they’ve found a secure place to snooze, they are likely to return to that spot daily, but even if you find evidence of their presence — scat and regurgitated pellets — good luck seeing the clandestine culprits.I’m a seasoned birder with a particular interest in owls, and on my ventures to find them, even when I have specific information on where they’ve been seen just minutes before, I’ve failed to find them more often than not. Such elusiveness makes “owling” one of the great birding challenges. Being the first to find a particular owl is regarded by some as a badge of distinction, and those who find them regularly are viewed with awe-struck reverence.While birders prize owls, the ethical ones also abet the species’ secretive natures with their own code of silence, an owl “omertà.” Many people will not share the specifics of an owl’s location or will do so only in whispers. A typical owl dislikes disruption and will find a new roost if too many people kick up a racket near its daybed. This forces the bird to expend valuable energy — and of course throws off its sleep pattern.But I worry that in our effort to protect these elusive and private birds, we birders are falling short of another responsibility: to promote the cause of wildlife conservation by letting others in on our secrets so they, too, can see these magnificent predators and celebrate them.On listservs and bird reporting sites, users often note an owl location only well after the fact or provide a general location (Springfield Park) rather than a detailed one (halfway up the sycamore east of the bike trail near the footbridge). Even birders you know might get testy if you ask for details. When you request such information, you do so sheepishly, acknowledging your impropriety while promising discretion. Being protective of owl sightings has caused more than one heated argument; ask too many times and you may be shunned.Some Facebook birding groups are known for brutal takedowns and highhanded admonitions. A thread in 2013 culminated in an impassioned plea from a respected naturalist who urged her readers to “seriously limit” their time at an owl spot that had been irresponsibly shared and to “consider not returning.”That many birders are tight-lipped is a good thing, of course, because the cost of incaution can be disappointment or tragedy. When I lived in Ohio there was a hot spot nearby that was reliable for wintering long-eared owls, a species that many birders might travel across state lines to see. Over time the location, details and all, became widely known; sure enough, the owls stopped coming.There are stories about other owls being loved to death — fleeing spotting scopes and telephoto lenses only to be hit by cars — or of landowners, once tolerant of owlers on their properties, who revoked access for all because of an unprincipled few.Fortunately, every region seems to have an ambassador owl or two — an individual that seems indifferent to human attentions. I remember one that chose a nesting site right next to a busy playground and would snooze the day away in the open with no regard for the screaming toddlers, slamming car doors or barking dogs below. These birds are often their viewers’ first owls and are for many the sightings that get them hooked on birding.And that’s arguably a downside to birders’ protective secrecy: Owls might be rivaled only by bald eagles as ornithological recruiting agents, inspiring young and old to take an interest, to care about wildlife and to want to share with others. It’s no accident that many nature centers have live birds of prey, including owls, on display for visitors and that many birding organizations sponsor evening “owl prowls.” But as awesome as it is to see an owl up close in captivity or hear one hooting in the distant dark, there’s nothing like seeing one in the wild on its own terms.It’s snowy owl season in the upper reaches of the United States. Though not entirely dependable, this species is a not-uncommon winter visitor from the Arctic, and during years of sudden upsurges in migration, these owls can show up in significant numbers, on piers and coastal dunes, in stubble fields — even at urban parks and airports.Because they often rest on the ground and hunt by day (after all, it never gets dark for much of their time up north), they can be conspicuous, much to the delight of birders and amateur photographers. For the same reason, they seem to enjoy a less protected status from birders than their nocturnal kin. With a snowy owl, full location details are even likely to end up in a feel-good segment on the local newscast. (We may have Harry Potter to thank for that.)All of this points to a basic wildlife watcher’s conundrum: When you know the location of a charismatic but sensitive species, do you keep that information to yourself (or to a small network of trusted peers), or do you broadcast it far and wide? The first option reeks of a kind of proprietary elitism, but it is of immediate benefit to the animal. The second option seems recklessly harmful to the animal, but if it promotes the hobby and raises awareness, then it might lead to far greater long-term benefits to conservation.Though there are usually those easy-to-see ambassador owls around, many birders insist on keeping mum about those locations, too; perhaps, for the greater good, they shouldn’t. And here’s a more controversial thing to say: Perhaps when we find an owl that is not especially wary, outside of nesting season and in a publicly accessible place, we ought to freely share that information, especially with those uninitiated to birding. If you have the time, set up a scope and invite passers-by to take a look, and if you have school-age children, see whether a field trip is possible.Some of my birding friends will balk at this suggestion, and there was a time when I would have been skeptical, too. But in an era of deregulation, of species being removed from the Endangered Species Act and of stripped-away land protections, conservationists may need to try harder than ever to get fellow citizens to care about wildlife. It’s awfully hard to care about what you can’t see.Noah Comet is an assistant professor of English at the United States Naval Academy.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy JINA MOORE and CATHERINE PORTERJAN. 12, 2018
Governments and citizens across the world recoiled on Friday with disgust, outrage and sadness at reports that President Trump had described Haiti and unspecified African nations as “shithole countries” during a meeting with members of Congress on Thursday about immigration, asking why the American government would want to admit their citizens as immigrants.The Haitian government called the remarks racist. The president of Senegal tweeted that he was shocked. South Africa’s governing party said the comments were “extremely offensive.” The African Union said it was “frankly alarmed.”In Haiti, particularly, the words were greeted with pain, as the country marked the eighth anniversary of the deadly 2010 earthquake — known as the worst natural disaster of modern history, killing between 230,000 and 316,000 people and leaving 1.5 million homeless.President Jovenel Moïse attended a solemn ceremony at Titanyen, the monument to the country’s earthquake victims, where thousands were buried anonymously in giant pits.Advertisement“The Haitian government condemns in the strongest terms these abhorrent and obnoxious remarks which, if proven, reflect a totally erroneous and racist view of the Haitian community and its contribution to the United States,” the government said, while summoning the top American diplomat in the country for clarification, and possible an apology.AdvertisementThe fury was not limited to those countries directly mentioned, however.El Salvador’s government sent a formal letter of protest.  Earlier in the week, the United States announced it was rescinding Temporary Protected Status for about 200,000 Salvadorans living in the United States.In Brussels, a European Union lawmaker, Gianni Pittella of Italy, told The Associated Press that Mr. Trump “had forgotten to engage his brain before talking.”Vicente Fox, a former president of Mexico who has frequently clashed with Mr. Trump, demanded of him: “With what authority do you proclaim who’s welcome in America and who’s not.” (He also suggested that Mr. Trump’s vulgar word was better used to describe his own mouth.)Michaëlle Jean, a former governor general of Canada who is now the secretary general of Francophonie, which comprises 84 states that share French as a language, called the comments “disturbing.”“It is such an insult before humanity,” Ms. Jean, a native of Haiti, who after the earthquake became Unesco’s special envoy to the Caribbean nation, told the Canadian Press. “For the first representative of the United States of America to speak in such a manner is quite troubling and offensive.”Unsurprisingly, some of the strongest reactions were in Africa.“I am shocked by President Trump’s comments on Haiti and Africa,” President Macky Sall of Senegal wrote on Twitter. “I reject them and condemn them vigorously. Africa and black people deserve the respect and consideration of all.”
            Je suis choqué par les propos du Président Trump sur Haïti et sur l'Afrique. Je les rejette et les condamne vigoureusement. L'Afrique et la race noire mérite le respect et la considération de tous. MS        On Saturday morning Ghana’s president weighed in, tweeting that Mr. Trump’s language was “extremely unfortunate.”After President Trump used vulgar language about immigrants, TV news grappled with a question: Were his comments racist?“We are certainly not a ‘shithole country,’ ” wrote the president, Nana Afuko-Addo. “We will not accept such insults, even from the leader of a friendly country, no matter how powerful.”
            The language of @realDonaldTrump that the African continent, Haiti and El Salvador are “shithole countries” is extremely unfortunate. We are certainly not a “shithole country”. We will not accept such insults, even from a leader of a friendly country, no matter how powerful.        Botswana’s government issued a statement calling the president’s remark “highly irresponsible, reprehensible and racist.”AdvertisementMr. Trump has a growing history of disparaging and ill-informed remarks about both Africa and Haiti. In June, he was reported to have said that Nigerians in the United States would never “go back to their huts” in Africa.In September, he spoke of a country called Nambia, which does not exist. (The White House later clarified that he had meant to say Namibia.)Mr. Trump said in a tweet on Friday that he had a “wonderful relationship with Haitians,” but last June, The New York Times reported, he grumbled in another immigration meeting that Haitians “all have AIDS.” The White House denied that report.The celebrated Haitian-American writer Edwidge Danticat said that Mr. Trump’s comments gave her chilling memories of arriving to the United States in 1981, the year before federal authorities included being Haitian as one of the four increased risk factors for contracting the new, and at the time fatal, disease, H.I.V. and AIDS.“As a kid, I was beaten up in school for being Haitian,” Ms. Danticat said at a literary seminar in Key West, Fla., on Friday. “In Miami, there was a boy who killed himself when his girlfriend found out he was Haitian.”“There are real consequences,” she said. “People lose their jobs. People get harassed. It’s like putting a target on our backs.”AdvertisementThe Haitian ambassador to the United States, Paul G. Altidor, told NPR on Friday it was “quite regrettable that we’re not discussing about the earthquake and how Haiti is moving forward.”“Unfortunately, we fear, once again Haiti finds itself in the midst of a very negative narrative in the U.S., and we are hoping this conversation will be an opportunity to address the Haiti conversation in the U.S. once and for all,” he said.Across social media on Thursday night and Friday, Africans and Haitians shared pictures of beautiful beaches, tree-lined streets and glamorous tourist resorts captioned with the insult.Online and offline, in cafes and shops across Africa, some wondered why the United States had spent millions of dollars to build massive embassies in countries which Mr. Trump held in such low esteem. Others speculated that if Mr. Trump visited their countries, he might revise his assumptions. Still others said that Mr. Trump may have had a point, citing the endemic corruption, public health challenges and poverty in many African nations.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“That’s why we’re being termed a shithole,” Andrew Mataso, 55, a business executive, said on a busy street in Nairobi, Kenya.Vincent Omondi, who lives in the sprawling working-class neighborhood of Kibera, in Nairobi, pointed out that the United States had a long relationship with people from the countries Mr. Trump criticized.“The USA,” he wrote in a Facebook message, “was partly built by slaves from the ‘shithole’ countries.” But Mr. Omondi said poverty and economic dysfunction across Africa lent support to Mr. Trump’s point.“Do I care?” Mr. Omondi said. “Not really, but such a statement coming from the leader of the ‘free world’ should serve as a wake up call for Africans to build Africa.”AdvertisementOyenka Nwenze, 26, a broadcaster, was stocking up on cooking ingredients for the weekend at a supermarket in the Silverbird shopping mall in Abuja, Nigeria.“For someone in that position he should know better, and he doesn’t even try, he isn’t attempting to expand his knowledge base,” Mr. Nwenze said. “In Africa we are normal human beings.”Under rainy skies in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, many people were reflecting on the earthquake, remembering loved ones who died.Michelet Desulme, 31, a motorcycle taxi driver, said he agreed with Trump’s assessment of Haiti. “The way our country is,” he said, “the way it’s not functioning, is this what his country is like?”The State Department appeared to have gone into damage-repair mode.Without directly referring to the president’s contentious statement, the State Department’s main Africa account said on Twitter that “the United States will continue to robustly, enthusiastically and forcefully engage in Africa, promoting this vital relationship, and to listen and build on the trust and views we share with our African partners.” The tweet was framed as a comment on a meeting of African ministers that the department hosted in November.Not everyone accepted that gesture, and some people were fearful of speaking in opposition to what they perceived as American policy. In Dakar, Senegal, diners at a beachside restaurant that serves Moscow mules and mojitos declined to express their views about Mr. Trump, fearing they might be denied visas to visit the United States.Babacar Faye, a tailor in Dakar, tuned his radio to another station Friday morning when discussion of Mr. Trump’s comments was broadcast. His remarks were not surprising, Mr. Faye said.“White people in general don’t like black people,” he said. “They just pretend to like us, but they don’t.”Phoebe Mutetsi in Kigali, Rwanda, said she was not falling for it.“Trump is a troll,” she said. “He is trolling the world. Don’t feed the troll.”Reporting was contributed by Emmanuel Akinwotu from Abuja, Nigeria; Jaime Yaya Barry from Dakar, Senegal; Lenny Ruvaga from Nairobi, Kenya; Frances Robles from Key West, Fla.; Richard Miguel from Port-au-Prince, Haiti; and Dionne Searcey from London.A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: From Haiti to Africa, Anger and Bemusement Over Remarks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
California Today By                     
 JOSE A. DEL REAL and
 

 CONOR DOUGHERTY
 
JAN. 12, 2018
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Rescue crews on Thursday continued digging through the muddy aftermath of devastating mudslides in Montecito, Calif., where dislodged boulders, fallen trees and thrashed vehicles were still strewn across the landscape.The scale of the wreckage was staggering: about 100 homes were completely destroyed and another 300 were badly damaged. Seventeen people have been declared dead. And crews continued searching for more than 40 people who had been unaccounted for or declared missing by their families.Josie Gower was one of the victims.Just before 3 a.m. on Tuesday morning, she and her boyfriend heard a loud noise downstairs in their home. They went to investigate. When she opened the back door, Ms. Gower was sucked out of her house by the mud, which overpowered her grip on the doorframe.[Read The Times’ full story about the victims here.]“It doesn’t make sense. I kept thinking the worst case would be a few inches of flooding,” her son, Hayden Gower, said. “I keep thinking over and over about what we could have done different. Why did she go down there then? What could have stopped her from dying this way? It’s too hard to imagine.”The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More coverage:• The Associated Press also profiled several Montecito residents, some of whom said the community was plagued with “evacuation fatigue” after the wildfires.Advertisement• Rescue crews were working against time Thursday, as the window to save lives closed.• Scent dogs were deployed to help search the wreckage.Advertisement• CNN published striking before-and-after photos of the mudslides.• Montecito residents like Ellen DeGeneres and Oprah Winfrey opened up about their experiences with the mudslides on television.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, who is running for governor, called on President Trump to resign after his comments denigrating Haiti and Africa. [SF Gate]• State regulators decided Thursday to shut down the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant, the last in California. It will cease operations in six years. [San Diego Union Tribune]• Five women have come forward to accuse the actor James Franco of sexually exploitative behavior. [Los Angeles Times]• State lawmakers examined the legal threshold for sexual harassment cases, wondering if it’s too high. [Los Angeles Times]• There are rumors that the Repuplican Representative Darrell Issa, who announced this week he would not seek re-election, may be eyeing a run in a neighboring district. [Los Angeles Times]Advertisement• Profile: Kamala Harris has emerged as an immigrant advocate in the Senate. [The Sacramento Bee]• The San Francisco International Airport had another close call earlier this week when an Aeromexico airplane descended toward a runway where another plane was parked. [The Associated Press]• Sex workers who come forward to report violent crimes in San Francisco will not be arrested, according to new guidelines announced Thursday. The policy appears to be among the first of its kind in the nation. [San Francisco Chronicle]• Mayor Kevin Faulconer of San Diego said tackling homelessness is among his top priorities for the coming year [San Diego Union Tribune]• Op-Ed: “It is never too soon after one of these disasters to speak truth about climate change’s role.” [New York Times]Few things are more reviled by California tenants groups than Costa-Hawkins, the state law that limits the scope of city rent control laws. The law prevents rent control on units built after 1995, and prohibits cities from limiting rent increases on units after they are vacated.Depending on where you sit on the spectrum, the law either hurts tenants by allowing landlords to impose huge rent increases or is a much-needed restraint that prevents California cities from shutting down growth by passing draconian price controls. Either way, as the state’s housing crisis deepens, the law has increasingly become a target.On Thursday the State Assembly’s Committee on Housing and Community Development had a raucous hearing to discuss whether or not to move the bill to a vote by the broader Legislature. The chambers packed with tenants groups chanting in support of a repeal and landlords in yellow shirts who showed up to support keeping the measure in place.Few people expected the measure to pass, and indeed, the bill died in committee. Nevertheless, the bill’s sponsor, Richard Bloom, Democrat of Santa Monica, promised to keep up the fight. At the same time, there is a looming 2018 ballot initiative to repeal the act in its entirety.AdvertisementEfforts to repeal Costa Hawkins are the latest wrinkle in a burgeoning tenants movement across California. After being dormant since the 1970s, efforts to revive rent control and just cause eviction laws have popped up across the state.“We not only have a housing crisis in California, we have a tenant crisis,” said David Chiu, a San Francisco assemblyman who co-authored the bill to repeal Costa Hawkins, in a Facebook post after the vote. “While tenant bills have always been difficult to pass in the Legislature, I am disappointed that AB 1506 did not receive enough votes in committee today to advance. That outcome is disheartening, but we started a conversation in the Legislature that was long overdue.”California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article, relying on information from the photo agency, misspelled the surname of one of the men shown in the image and misidentified the other. The image showed David Drenick, not Drenic, and Robert Riskin, not Robert Drenic.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By DAN BILEFSKYJAN. 13, 2018
MONTREAL — After fleeing to Montreal from Long Island, Marlise Beauville felt, she said, as if she had reached the Promised Land.She entered the country last summer without immigration papers, yet received a work permit, a monthly stipend of 600 Canadian dollars, or $480, free health care and free French lessons. The weather has become bone-cold chilly but her Canadian neighbors are warm.Though it is not clear that she will be able to stay, she is hunkering down, adamant that limbo in Canada is better than returning to Haiti, where she fears that the family of her dead husband will kill her. “I won’t — I can’t — go back to Haiti,” said Ms. Beauville, a caregiver from Anse-à-Veau, Haiti, who was visiting a Haitian community center here the other day.Ms. Beauville was one of a surge of thousands of Haitian migrants who crossed over the border from the United States to Quebec last summer, spurred by a May announcement by the Trump administration that Haitians could lose their temporary protected status in the United States, granted after the 2010 earthquake that devastated their country.AdvertisementThe migrants were hoping to benefit from a loophole in a United States-Canada treaty that allowed them to make refugee claims in Canada if they did not arrive at legal ports of entry, but crossed the border illegally.AdvertisementBut Canadian officials are warning that even liberal Canada has its limits amid concerns, fairly or not, that illegal migration is stretching the immigration system to a breaking point and risks stoking a potential backlash.Canada’s minister of immigration, Ahmed Hussen, himself a former refugee who moved to the country from Somalia when he was 16, said Canada was proud to be a welcoming country but could not welcome everyone. Only about 8 percent of Haitian migrants had received asylum here since the summer, he said, while there is a backlog of about 40,700 cases, according to Canada’s Immigration and Refugee Board.“We don’t want people to illegally enter our border, and doing so is not a free ticket to Canada,” Mr. Hussen said in an interview. “We are saying, ‘You will be apprehended, screened, detained, fingerprinted, and if you can’t establish a genuine claim, you will be denied refugee protection and removed.’ ”Canadian immigration officials are once again bracing for a possible influx of migrants heading north. On Monday, the Trump administration announced that it would not be renewing temporary protected status for nearly 200,000 Salvadorans, a humanitarian measure that had allowed them to live and work legally in the United States.On Thursday at a White House meeting, President Trump demanded to know why he should accept immigrants from Haiti and some countries in Africa, which he described in vulgar and disparaging terms. His remarks possibly further unsettled others in the United States already anxious about their precarious status.In what appeared to be an effort to dispel false hope among would-be immigrants and help stem an influx, Pablo Rodriguez, a Liberal member of Parliament who was born in Argentina, will be traveling to Los Angeles next week to meet with members of the Hispanic community there to explain the limits of Canadian asylum policy.On an earlier trip there, he sought to counter false media reports in the Latin American press that he said were suggesting that migrants could travel to Canada, “walk in and stay forever.”AdvertisementEarlier this summer, the government also sent Emmanuel Dubourg, a Liberal Haitian-Canadian member of Parliament from Montreal, to Miami’s “Little Haiti” to spread the word that getting asylum in Canada was difficult. “People come here and realize that this is not the Promised Land and that they could be deported back to Haiti,” he said in an interview.Immigration is a particularly emotional issue in Quebec, a province largely made up of French speakers surrounded by an English-speaking majority, where immigrants are required to send their children to French-only schools. Quebec’s Liberal government recently barred people who are wearing face coverings from receiving public services or working in government jobs in the province, arguing that veils encouraged the segregation of women.In August, the number of asylum seekers who illegally crossed the United States border into Quebec swelled to 5,530, a majority of them Haitians, according to Canadian government data published that month. In November, that number dropped to about 1,500 people, suggesting that cold weather and the warnings from Canadian officials were having an effect.Many of those who travel to Canada avoid the official border, so they can circumvent the Safe Third Party Agreement between Canada and the United States, which requires asylum seekers to apply for refuge in the country where they first arrived.That loophole has created a political headache for the government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, prompting criticism that it is encouraging illegal immigration, even as refugee advocates warn that Haitian migrants could face poverty, violence or worse if they are sent back to Haiti.Mr. Hussen emphasized that Canada was obliged to honor its international commitments under the 1951 United Nations refugee convention, which makes clear that asylum claims should be considered even if those applying use irregular means to enter a country because refugees are, by definition, fleeing persecution.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But experts say there are too few judges to adjudicate the backlog of refugee claims, which means that the asylum process for migrants like Ms. Beauville can drag on for as long as two years.“There is a disconnect between Trudeau’s hashtag ‘Welcome to Canada’ and the reality that the system is overwhelmed,” said Michelle Rempel, a member of the opposition conservative party who is the shadow minister for immigration. “It can lead to a nationalist blowback like we have seen in Europe.”Ms. Beauville is undeterred. She said that after her husband died 15 years ago in Haiti, his family threatened her with a machete unless she handed over her inheritance. So she fled to Long Island. There, she eked out a living as a caregiver.AdvertisementLife was not easy in America — she had left her young son with her sister back in Haiti — but at least it was better than living with death threats.When reports that Haitians were going to be deported from the United States began to circulate in the summer, Ms. Beauville once again packed her bags. She left her home in Long Island, boarded a Greyhound bus for Plattsburgh, N.Y., and then took a taxi to an unofficial point along the United States-Canadian border.When an amiable Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer warned her that she would be detained, she had her reply ready: “Please arrest me.”She was detained but not handcuffed.“They asked how much money I had,” she recalled. “They took my fingerprints, and a group of us were then taken to a YMCA for processing. I love Canada because it is an open welcoming country. I feel I receive love here.”In Quebec, which has a small but vocal anti-immigrant far right, the reaction against the newcomers has been relatively muted. After the Haitian migrants began arriving this summer in Montreal, a smattering of protesters picketed near the city’s Olympic Stadium, where some were housed.In a Facebook post, François Legault, leader of the Coalition Avenir Québec, a right-of-center party with growing appeal, wrote that Quebec was already burdened by too many immigrants. He said Quebecers had been “shocked to see the migrants enter, many ignoring the laws, as if there was no border.”Despite such sentiments, Marjorie Villefranche, the director general of La Maison d’Haïti in Montreal, a Haitian community organization, said the migrants had been largely embraced, in part because many Haitians speak French. She said that she did not know of a single case of a Haitian asylum seeker among the recent newcomers who had been deported from Canada, given that the appeal process was lengthy.And while racism exists, she said, much of the animus toward immigrants had been directed at Muslims. The center recently came under criticism, she noted, when it opened its doors to refugees during Ramadan.Advertisement“The sad truth is that if Haitians were Muslim the reaction would be far different,” she said.Haitians began arriving in Quebec in the 1960s to flee the tyranny of François Duvalier, known as Papa Doc. Today, there is a Haitian member of Parliament, a senator as well as celebrated singers, Uber drivers and doctors.Ms. Beauville hopes to join their ranks, and on a recent day she and her friend Marie Nadege, a fellow migrant, made their way to Haiti House, where a Canadian canoe-making manufacturer had come to recruit workers. As far as they were concerned, Quebec was their new home.“I have nothing in Haiti,” Ms. Beauville said. “No money. No house.”“I keep praying I can stay,” she said.An earlier version of this article described incorrectly regulations on face veils in Quebec. While the government barred people wearing face coverings from using public services or working in government jobs, it did not ban full-face veils in public spaces.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Migrants Fleeing to Canada Learn Even a Liberal Nation Has Limits.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Abby GoodnoughWASHINGTON — Kentucky will be the first state to require many of its Medicaid recipients to work or face losing their benefits after the Trump administration approved its plan on Friday.Advocates for the poor threatened lawsuits, while Gov. Matt Bevin, a Republican, celebrated the approval as “the most transformational entitlement reform that has been seen in a quarter of a century.”The plan calls for most Medicaid recipients who are not disabled and aged 19 to 64 to work at least 20 hours a week, beginning in July. In addition to paid jobs, they could meet the requirement through volunteer work, job training, searching for a job, taking classes or caring for someone elderly or disabled.Pregnant women, full-time students, primary caretakers of dependents and the chronically homeless will be exempt from the work requirement, as will people deemed medically frail. But the Bevin administration still expects about 350,000 people to be subject to the requirement, which will be phased in around the state starting in July. About half of them already meet it, according to the administration.“We are ready to show America how this can and will be done,” Mr. Bevin said at a news conference in Frankfort. “It will soon become the standard and the norm in the United States of America, and America will be better for it.”Roughly 500,000 adults have joined Kentucky’s Medicaid rolls since the state expanded the program under the Affordable Care Act in 2014. Mr. Bevin has consistently attacked the expansion as a waste of money, questioning why “able-bodied” adults should be given free government health care that used to be largely limited to children, the elderly and the disabled.He filed for federal permission to impose work requirements in 2016 — notably, instead of seeking to end the state’s Medicaid expansion altogether. And since then, more than a dozen other states have also sought work requirements or said they plan to. Several sought Medicaid work requirements during the Obama administration but were rebuffed.The approval came just a day after the Trump administration gave states the O.K. to impose work or other “community engagement” requirements as a condition of getting Medicaid. According to the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation, 60 percent of working-age Medicaid recipients who aren’t disabled already have full- or part-time jobs.Under its plan, Kentucky will also require many adults who aren’t elderly or disabled to pay premiums of $1 to $15 a month, depending on their income. And it will disenroll people from Medicaid for up to six months if they fail to report changes in income or work status. Those who qualified for Medicaid under the Obamacare expansion will also have to “earn” dental and vision benefits, which they have been able to access freely until now, through activities like taking a financial literacy course or getting a GED.The Bevin administration has estimated that the plan will result in 100,000 fewer Medicaid recipients after five years and save $2.4 billion, mostly in federal Medicaid funds. But Mr. Bevin couched the policy change as a moral rather than a fiscal decision, saying he did not care about the savings and saw it as an opportunity for Kentucky’s poor “not to be put into a dead-end entitlement trap but rather to be given a path forward and upward so they can do for themselves.”Advocates for Medicaid beneficiaries said they disagreed with the Trump administration’s assertion, in approving Kentucky’s plan, that work requirements were consistent with the goals of Medicaid because work could improve people’s health.“Considering that it will seriously harm over 100,000 Kentuckians, in violation of numerous provisions of Medicaid law, we are very seriously considering taking legal action — and as we analyze the meager legal rationale in the approval itself, it seems inevitable,” said Leonardo Cuello, director of health policy at the National Health Law Program, an advocacy group for the poor.Emily Beauregard, the executive director of Kentucky Voices for Health, an advocacy group, said the state had provided little information about how it would make sure people were complying with work requirements, how exemptions would be determined and other details.“We’re anticipating Kentuckians by and large are going to be extremely confused and worried about what they’re going to face and whether or not they’ll continue to have coverage,” Ms. Beauregard said. “They’ll be looking to advocates and enrollment assisters and their providers for answers, and at this point we don’t have any.”She added, “The idea that we are encouraging work and independence, then taking away the health care that makes people more employable and better able to function — none of this adds up to something that’s going to be good for Kentuckians or our economy.”But Hal Heiner, Kentucky’s Education and Workforce Development secretary, said during Mr. Bevin’s news conference that there was “an abundance of jobs” available to Medicaid recipients, as well as resources to prepare them.“We have the jobs, we have the tuition resources, we have the job coaches in our career centers all across the state,” he said, “and now we’ll be able to connect the dots.”Other state officials said the state was building an IT system to track people’s compliance with the work and premium requirements and participation in activities, like taking the financial literacy course, that would earn them points toward dental and vision care. They did not, however, provide a cost estimate for building and maintaining the administrative infrastructure necessary to monitor compliance with the new requirements.Kentucky’s uninsured population has dropped more than almost any other state’s under the Affordable Care Act, and several studies have found significantly increased access to primary care, preventive screenings and care for chronic conditions there since the Medicaid expansion. But the state’s population remains unhealthy overall, which Mr. Bevin pointed to as proof that the Medicaid expansion was not working.“The idea that we should keep doing what we’re doing is an insult to the people of Kentucky,” he said.Sheila Schuster, a longtime health care advocate in the state, said she saw it differently.“The administration has their chicken-and-egg story completely wrong — they say people need to work to get healthy,” she said. “We all know that health is the foundation from which people go to school, go to work and keep their employment. So I’m afraid the administration is not only going backward, but doing it for completely the wrong reasons.”Such opposing views were evident in comments people posted on Mr. Bevin’s Facebook page during his news conference, which was livestreamed there. “ABOUT TIME to get others to pull their weight!” one viewer in favor of the new requirements wrote.“I feel this is wrong,” another said. “Wouldn’t they not be in Medicaid if they could get a job?”AdvertisementBy DAMIEN CAVEJAN. 11, 2018
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world, and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter. Want to receive it by email? Sign up here.______I threw off my Blundstone boots in the baggage claim area, swapping them out for flip-flops. The air-conditioning wheezed hello.We’d arrived back in Sydney just in time for an asphalt-melting heat wave, having left New York in the middle of a shark-freezing Arctic cyclone — and man, was I thrilled to be home.Because that, it seems, is where we landed: HOME.Many people take the concept for granted, but for those of us who move around the world to help explain the world, it’s a process of becoming.AdvertisementOne minute a place is foreign and peculiar; the next, it’s familiar and magnetic, pulling us back when we look down from airplane windows.AdvertisementThis is not the narrow definition of home. It’s not the building itself, it’s not the site of your first memories or your relatives. It’s not the place where, as the poet Robert Frost wrote, “when you have to go there, they have to take you in.”For me at least — and perhaps for many of you who have also called many places home — it’s both more expansive and more specific.Home is knowing where to buy groceries without the help of Google Maps.Home is knowing you have friends who will bring your children home from birthday parties.Home is running into people you know at the park on a sunny afternoon.Home is the little tip a neighbor tells you about the vacation spot that’s off the radar. Or the can’t-be-missed restaurant.And perhaps most of all, it’s realizing you’ve found your people, that you’ve shared a moment or a deeper conversation about something difficult with someone you only met after you moved.Home — for me, for us, for my family — is something that exists in many forms and best of all, it’s something that can be learned and experienced anywhere.As Herman Hesse put it: “But where paths that have an affinity for each other intersect, the whole world looks like home, for a time.”AdvertisementAnd for now, with great appreciation, those intersections are here.I’ll share more in future newsletters about what that means in the coming year for the community of readers and journalists that we’re still building, together. But for now, just know that I’m happy to be back, and back to work.So dive into the stories below. Keep reading and watching, keep telling your friends to sign up for this newsletter, and keep sharing your thoughts, by email (nytaustralia@nytimes.com) or in our Facebook group.Because let’s be honest: Even though it’s summer, there’s a lot to discuss and a lot of ground to cover.Here are a few items to get the conversation started.______Whenever I read the latest news of President Trump these days, I think of this step-back, smart, sweeping analysis by Peter Baker, our veteran White House correspondent.And this quote from a prominent historian: “We’re seeing the presidency completely and utterly transformed in a way I don’t think we’ve seen since before the Civil War.”______The maps of Australia’s Indigenous languages are a fascinating window into the nation’s history and present.Now imagine what it would be like to be the last one speaking an ancient tongue — and then read about Amadeo García García, the last man on earth who speaks Taushiro, the language of a remote tribe in Peru.It’s part of The End, our series about how we cast off our mortal coil, all over the world.______Every year it gets a little more ambitious and visual: 52 places to go, our travel guide to the globe.AdvertisementTwo of this year’s locations are in Australia, but the real innovation for 2018 involved a contest that will send one lucky traveler to every single one of the 52.The winner had to beat out 13,000 other applicants. You can get to know her by watching her winning video submission, and by following her on Twitter or Instagram.______Everything Australia-related from all over The New York Times can always be found on our Australia page, and because there’s too much to round up since the last Australia Letter, let’s go for a speed round of recent highlights:News and Perspective• The dingo fence gets its due, with great pictures from Adam Ferguson.• You could NOT have missed our exclusive on how the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation began because of an Australian diplomat’s ability to hold his liquor. Right?• Our documentary on Mackay’s sugar love may or may not have driven Australia’s conversation about a sugar and soft-drink tax. You should watch it anyway.• Here’s another provocative read: In Opinion, Lisa Pryor — Sydney’s most entertaining doctor and author — writes about the circus of pseudoscience and its compelling, problematic appeal.Hungry? Besha Rodell’s Australia Fare food column has kicked into high gear lately, with reviews of Hobart’s Agrarian Kitchen and Sydney’s Saint Peter.Both pieces go beyond cuisine.In Besha’s able hands, food criticism is an exploration of Australian culture and its place in the world, guided by the experience of food and drink. Even if you never visit these places, you’ll want to understand what they say about Australia.Your StoriesWhere can you see your Australia reflected in The New York Times?Australia Diary, of course — our collection of reader-submitted vignettes, photographs, videos and poetry from all over the country. Send us your own entry if you think you’ve got something that will bring delight or deeper contemplation to us all.AdvertisementThis week, we’re looking for anecdotes about work and gender. If you have a moment in mind — awkward, thoughtful or funny — email us at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.______... And We RecommendI’ve been reading a wide range of China coverage lately. Here are the three pieces that stuck with me the most:→ Making China Great Again, by Evan Osnos in The New Yorker.→ China’s Cover-Up, by Orville Schell in Foreign Affairs.→ A Chinese Empire Reborn, by Edward Wong (my good friend and former Iraq colleague), in The New York Times.Damien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
JAN. 11, 2018
Good morning on this suddenly warm Thursday.If today were average, you’d be waking with a cup of coffee (perhaps), a leisurely read through this column (we hope), and a high of 38 degrees in New York.But has any day this month felt average?The first eight days of January were bone-chillingly cold — the thermometer didn’t budge past freezing once. So perhaps it shouldn’t come as a surprise that today’s high is a balmy 54 degrees. Tomorrow, it could be as warm as 60.As the city seesaws between freeze and defrost, we wanted to know: What’s up with this wonky weather?“It’s definitely a little bit of whiplash,” said John Homenuk a meteorologist at New York Metro Weather. “And it’s going to continue.”AdvertisementWe were locked into weeks of freezing weather earlier this month after circulation patterns in the arctic were dislodged, Mr. Homenuk said. “We had cold air moving into places where it doesn’t usually reside.”Advertisement“But that pattern is starting to break down,” Mr. Homenuk added. Today’s mild temperatures are thanks to warm air that moved in from the south.But you can expect a blast of cold air again soon.“The atmosphere is always trying to reach an equilibrium, and right now were seeing a battle between warm and cold,” said Faye Morrone, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service.For the next few days, we’re looking at temperatures in the 50s. Rain will begin tomorrow, before the mercury plummets below freezing again on Sunday.The National Weather Service and the governor’s office are warning about potential flooding today and through the weekend as snow melts and rain causes the rivers to rise.“When you have this extra water content in snow and ice, and then warm things up, and then put heavy rain onto it, that leads to an enhanced threat of flooding,” Mr. Homenuk said.That includes the streets of New York, if on a smaller scale.“You can expect a lot more water on the New York City sidewalks than from a normal rain event,” Mr. Homenuk said.Here’s what else is happening:• A bodega owner in Brooklyn has been taking in the homeless for the past 14 years and giving them a warm place to stay in the store’s cellar. [New York Times]• Jeffrey D. Klein, a New York State senator, has been accused of forcibly kissing a former staffer outside an Albany bar in 2015. [New York Times]Advertisement• Senator Kirsten Gillibrand plans to try and block the confirmation of Geoffrey S. Berman if he is nominated by the president to be the United States attorney in Manhattan. [New York Times]• New York City is taking a harder stance against climate change, filing a lawsuit against five major oil companies and urging pension funds to divest from companies related to fossil fuels. [New York Times]• Facing the threat of a lawsuit, a West Side condominium building is asking a Manhattan judge to ensure its right to remove the “Trump” name from its facade. [New York Times]• A new investigative unit, led by Councilman Ritchie Torres of the Bronx, will be responsible for looking over the operations of city agencies. [New York Times]• A 24-year-old man now appreciates clean living and a calm home after ridding himself of psychotropic medications and facing times of homelessness. [New York Times]• During the last theater season, Broadway has seen an audience uptick of local New Yorkers. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Dr. James Melius, an advocate for worker’s health and the medical care of first responders after the World Trade Center attacks, died at 69. [New York Times]• The New Jersey governor-elect, Phil Murphy, called for the resignation of 100 senior staff members of New Jersey Transit. [NBC New York]Advertisement• Anthony Weiner and Huma Abedin agreed to finalize their divorce out of court in an effort to spare their 6-year-old son embarrassment. [New York Daily News]• Over 5,000 pieces of luggage are still stranded at Kennedy Airport, three days after a water-main break caused major disorder for travelers. [New York Post]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Rescuing Abby Cadabby”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• An evening of salsa, hosted by the Balmir Latin Dance Studio, at the Brooklyn Museum. 6 p.m. [Free]• The work of more than 40 Japanese artists will be on display at “Japanism” at One Art Space in TriBeCa. 6 p.m. [Free]• A conversation about modesty in fashion from different cultures at the Jewish Museum. 6:30 p.m. [Free, donation requested]• The author Katy Tur discusses her book, “Unbelievable: My Front-Row Seat to the Craziest Campaign in American History,” at Greenlight Bookstore in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. 7:30 p.m. [Free]• Alternate-side parking is suspended through Saturday for snow operations.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.AdvertisementJazz enthusiasts, tune in.Winter Jazzfest, the star-studded music festival, is this week.While slightly smaller than years past (which organizers attributed, in part, to the local musician’s union seeking higher pay for the artists this year), there are still plenty of talks, tributes and performances at venues across Greenwich Village and Lower Manhattan.On tap today: The singer Jose James performs the music of Bill Withers at Le Poisson Rouge at 7 p.m. ($30), and Gilles Peterson performs a DJ set at Nublu at 9 p.m. ($25).The signature event of Jazzfest is the music marathon, in which 100 groups perform on different stages at locations across Greenwich Village and Lower Manhattan. The two-night event begins on Friday at 5 p.m. and continues on Saturday.And on Monday, writers, artists and musicians including Angela Davis, Esperanza Spalding, Ravi Coltrane and Vijay Iyer will perform a musical tribute to the pianist Geri Allen, who died last year.The festival continues until Jan. 17. You can see the full lineup here.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CECILIA KANGJAN. 11, 2018
WASHINGTON — A new front is opening in the battle to restore so-called net neutrality rules: state legislatures.Lawmakers in at least six states, including California and New York, have introduced bills in recent weeks that would forbid internet providers to block or slow down sites or online services. Legislators in several other states, including North Carolina and Illinois, are weighing similar action.They are responding to the Federal Communications Commission’s vote last month to end regulations that barred internet service providers from creating slow and fast lanes for different sites and services. The new policy will go into effect in the coming weeks.By passing their own law, the state lawmakers say, they would ensure that consumers would find the content of the choice, maintain a diversity of voices online and protect businesses from having to pay fees to reach users. And they might even have an effect beyond their states. California’s strict auto emissions standards, for example, have been followed by a dozen other states, giving California major sway over the auto industry.Advertisement“There tends to be a follow-on effect, particularly when something happens in a big state like California,” said Harold Feld, a senior vice president at nonprofit consumer group, Public Knowledge, which supports net neutrality efforts by the states.Bills have also been introduced in Massachusetts, Nebraska, Rhode Island and Washington. The issue has also attracted some support in governor mansions. In Washington, for example, Gov. Jay Inslee reiterated his support for a state law in a speech this week.Advertisement“When Washington, D.C., takes away that protection, we must protect net neutrality for our people, for our businesses and for the virtues of free speech,” Mr. Inslee, a Democrat, said.But the bills are still in the early stages and could face roadblocks. Many similar efforts by states to restore broadband privacy rules that Congress repealed last year, have stalled or been scrapped.And any such state law could be challenged in courts. The Federal Communications Commission’s new order, which rolled back rules passed in 2015, blocks state and city governments from creating their own net neutrality laws. The commission said different state laws were too difficult for an internet service provider, like Verizon or Charter, to follow because the internet does not recognize state borders and transfers traffic between states.“The internet is the ultimate form of interstate commerce, which is clearly only within the authority of the F.C.C.,” said Bret Swanson, a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute who specializes in telecommunications policy.But the state lawmakers argue that they have an obligation to protect consumers with net neutrality rules and that local governments can approve or deny requests by telecommunications providers to operate in their states. They also argue that it is unclear if the Federal Communications Commission can declare a blanket pre-emption of states, something they say Congress would have to do. In 2016, a federal court ruled against the commission’s effort to pre-empt state laws related to municipal broadband networks.“People should not be intimidated by the F.C.C. simply saying it has pre-emptive authority, and we need to dig into the sources of that claim, which are a lot weaker than the F.C.C. makes it out to be,” said State Representative Drew Hansen, a Democrat who has introduced one of two net neutrality bills in Washington in recent weeks.AdvertisementThe Federal Communications Commission declined to comment but pointed to the section of its order that pre-empts states from creating their own net neutrality rules.Supporters of net neutrality are attacking the agency’s repeal of the 2015 rules in other ways as well. On Tuesday, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, announced that he had enough support to force a vote on a congressional resolution to bring back the rules. He gained an important Republican supporter, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who said she would vote in favor of it. Such a measure is a long shot in the House, however, and would also need President Trump’s signature.“Net neutrality will be a major issue in the 2018 campaigns, and we are going to let everyone know where we stand and where they stand,” Mr. Schumer said at a news conference, warning Republicans to vote in favor of the Democratic-led resolution.In addition, lawsuits against the commission are expected shortly after the policy becomes official. Last week, a lobbying group for big technology companies including Facebook, Google and Netflix announced that it planned to join the lawsuits, giving the opposition substantial new resources. More than a dozen state attorneys general have also announced plans to sue the commission.But state lawmakers say they cannot wait around to see what happens with those efforts.State Representative Norma Smith, a Republican who introduced the other bill in Washington, said net neutrality was an important safeguard for small businesses that might not be able to pay internet service companies for fast speeds. Even though Republicans in Washington, D.C., supported the repeal, she said many Republicans in her state supported her bill.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This is not a partisan issue here,” Ms. Smith said. “Everyone is concerned about equal access to the internet and being able to participate in the 21st-century economy.”Kevin de León, a leader in the California Senate, said net neutrality would be a major issue in his campaign against Senator Dianne Feinstein in the Democratic primary this year. He said a net neutrality bill he had introduced, one of two in California, had the backing of tech companies and many consumers in his state. Ms. Feinstein has criticized the Federal Communications Commission’s vote.“If the Trump administration won’t protect consumers, the State of California will,” Mr. de León said.AdvertisementIn New York, Assemblywoman Patricia Fahy, a Democrat, said a few internet service providers already had too much power over the marketplace and should not be given the ability to charge websites more for faster delivery to users.This month, she introduced a bill that would hold back state telecom projects from broadband providers that blocked, throttled or gave priority to sites that paid for faster access. Legislators in Rhode Island and North Carolina have introduced or are considering similar bills that are more focused on government contracts than telecom law, they say.“We are threading a needle here,” Ms. Fahy said, “but this is the best way to get at consumer protection, because state projects are huge and this will really affect the internet service providers.”A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: States Look for Ways To Keep Net Neutrality.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JESSE McKINLEY and VIVIAN WANGJAN. 11, 2018
ALBANY — The state capital was riven on Thursday by a bevy of calls from various quarters for an investigation of Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, the powerful Senate leader alleged to have forcibly kissed a former staffer and the most significant figure accused of sexual harassment here in years.But the Republican leader of the Senate, John J. Flanagan of Long Island, said that any investigation would not come from his chamber. The Senate, he said, has no mechanism to investigate Mr. Klein, his longtime political partner who leads a rogue group of eight Democratic senators, the Independent Democratic Conference, or I.D.C., who collaborate with the Republicans to create a majority.“At this point, this is an allegation in which no formal complaint was ever made,” said Mr. Flanagan, in a statement. “While it may be within the scope of other entities, an investigation into this matter is not within the jurisdiction of the Senate.”Mr. Flanagan called Mr. Klein “a good and decent person who treats others with respect,” while also saying “we take every allegation of sexual harassment seriously and will continue to encourage everyone to come forward.”AdvertisementMr. Flanagan’s decision came even as Albany continued to reel with both the scandal — quickly supplanting the arrest of a Democratic assemblywoman earlier this week — and a sense that the national reckoning about sexual harassment had finally arrived in the state capital, and right in the middle of its odd power-sharing arrangement.Advertisement“Time is up in Albany, too,” said Sonia Ossorio, the president of the state chapter of the National Organization for Women, referring to the new #TimesUp movement, which seeks to fight sexual harassment.Ms. Ossorio was one of several people pushing for an independent investigation in the wake of an allegation — first outlined in HuffPost on Wednesday — from a former lawyer on Mr. Klein’s staff, Erica Vladimer. Ms. Vladimer, 30, said that Mr. Klein had kissed her against her will outside an Albany bar in spring 2015, while his staff was celebrating the end of the state budget season.“All of a sudden there was a hand on the back of my head and he shoved his tongue down my throat,” she said. Ms. Vladimer left her job shortly after the alleged incident, and said she had spoken out “to help the women who might have been in a similar situation.”Mr. Klein, who represents portions of the Bronx and Westchester County, has strenuously denied that the episode occurred, preemptively holding a conference call with reporters on Wednesday alongside his girlfriend, Senator Diane J. Savino, of Staten Island, another member of the I.D.C.Ms. Savino also denied Ms. Vladimer’s allegations. Mr. Klein commissioned a memo from his lawyers outlining their case, accusing Ms. Vladimer of drinking that night and acting peculiarly, something they said was evidenced by the young woman inviting Mr. Klein over that night for a Seder dinner.Things quickly escalated. Ms. Vladimer, now an analyst with the Independent Budget Office for the City of New York, responded on Thursday with a lengthy Facebook post saying that “Sen. Klein abused his power by violating my body, and ultimately my mind and soul.”She added that her experiences in Albany’s culture of sexual harassment were “more insidious than this one moment in time with this one man,” and called for “laws protecting staff from becoming victims.”Advertisement“But legislation and rules can only go so far,” Ms. Vladimer wrote. “It’s time to hold our elected officials accountable.”At the same time, however, what was emerging was another age-old truth about Albany: It takes a lot to change the status quo, particularly where ethics are concerned. As Mr. Flanagan’s statement suggested, there were other possible avenues to investigate Mr. Klein, but none seemed likely to act quickly or, critics said, effectively to address sexual harassment.“It’s pretty clear that Albany needs an independent ethics watchdog,” said Blair Horner, the executive director of the New York Public Interest Research Group. “And we don’t have one.”Indeed, one of the principal groups charged with overseeing and policing legislators’ behavior — the Joint Commission of Public Ethics, or Jcope — has been faulted in the past for lacking investigative muscle and proper funding. On Thursday, a spokesman for the commission, Walter McClure, said he could not comment on “anything that is or may be an investigative matter,” though he noted that the commission has issued investigations of sexual harassment in the past, including former Assemblyman Dennis Gabryszak, who was found to have made sexual advances toward women who worked in his office. (That investigation’s findings, however, were issued almost two years after Mr. Gabryszak had resigned.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Thursday evening, Mr. Klein seemingly upped the ante, sending a letter to the acting chairman and executive director of the committee requesting that they open an investigation, saying again that the incident “did not happen, period,” and citing his lawyer’s own six-day investigation of “current and former staffers present at the time.”Sexual misbehavior is hardly a new phenomenon in Albany, where lawmakers once bragged about the “Bear Mountain Compact,” an assertion that extramarital liaisons north of the Bear Mountain Bridge, a Hudson River crossing north of New York City, were not to be spoken about in home districts.In 2012, the Democrat-dominated State Assembly was rocked by the unsavory acts of Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, a powerful Brooklyn Democrat, who had sexually harassed female staff members. As recently as November, a Republican assemblyman, Steven T. McLaughlin, was disciplined for sexual harassment, after an investigation found he had asked a female Assembly staff member for naked pictures of herself.The Lopez episode led the Assembly to enact a series of reforms, including mandatory reporting of any complaint of sexual harassment and a ban on confidential settlements, proposals also being suggested by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and other lawmakers this year.The Klein scandal also threatened to overshadow the legislative session that began last week, and added intensity to the discussion of possible changes to internal policies and state laws meant to address sexual harassment. In a coincidence of timing, less than 24 hours after the news of Ms. Vladimer’s allegations broke, Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul and Melissa DeRosa, the secretary to the governor — the two highest ranking women in state government — stood before an audience of hundreds of people in the New-York Historical Society’s auditorium in Manhattan to unveil Mr. Cuomo’s 2018 Women’s Agenda.AdvertisementBoth women heaped praise upon the plans, including the governor’s promise to crack down on sexual harassment in the workplace. But they made no mention of Ms. Vladimer or Mr. Klein, or of the existence of harassment in state government more broadly, even as they stressed women’s courage in coming forward and the importance of believing their stories.“2018 needs to be the year when society responds,” Ms. DeRosa said.On Wednesday evening, Mr. Cuomo issued a brief statement about Mr. Klein, saying that “every allegation of sexual misconduct must be taken seriously.” But he did not say whether he believed Ms. Vladimer’s accusations nor offer any critique of Mr. Klein, adding only that he agreed with Mr. Klein that the “disturbing situation” should be investigated.A spokeswoman for the I.D.C., Candice Giove, reiterated on Thursday that Mr. Klein “welcomes any investigation into this alleged incident.”The political stakes could be high. Mr. Klein, as the leader of the I.D.C., works with Mr. Flanagan to control the Senate, despite Democrats technically holding a majority. (Another state Senator, Simcha Felder of Brooklyn, also sides with Mr. Flanagan and his fellow Republicans.)In an interview Thursday evening with NY1, Ms. Vladimer addressed several of Mr. Klein’s arguments, saying that Seder invite was because her parents grew up in the senator’s district. “A casual thing from one Jewish person to the next,” she said.As for her drinking the night of the incident, Ms. Vladimer conceded she had drinks.“But honestly, so what?” she said. “Does that put a green light over my head to anybody to try and shove their tongue down my throat?”A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2018, on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Senate Leader Balks at Harassment Inquiry.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
JAN. 9, 2018
Good morning on this bright and warming Tuesday.New Yorkers faltering on their resolutions to get in shape this year have at least one good excuse: It can be very expensive.In a city where a gym membership can cost hundreds of dollars a month, and where cycling, yoga and training classes are regularly priced at over $30 per session, breaking a sweat often feels more like breaking the bank.But there are plenty of ways to get fit for free, so long as you know where to look.Athletic wear stores. Brands like Athleta and Lululemon offer in-store classes in yoga, Pilates, boot camp, barre and more. If assuming a lotus pose while surrounded by merchandise throws off your chi, center yourself with a reminder that these classes are free — as long as you don’t shop on your way out.Shape Up NYC. Maybe you avoid working out because you think it’s just … so … boring. In that case, you might try bringing a friend who makes you laugh to one of the more unusual Shape Up NYC classes offered by the parks department, like belly dancing, hip-hop aerobics or line dancing. The parks department offers 250 classes a week in every borough, all free. Still not enough mental stimulation? Try a bilingual yoga class and learn how to do a perro invertido.AdvertisementRunning groups. For many of us, the choice between running on a wintry morning or nesting in a warm bed isn’t much of a decision. Unless, of course, someone is at the park waiting for you. Running groups like the New York Road Runners, or ones organized by brands like Nike or JackRabbit, not only give some accountability to your workout, but most have trainers on hand who can give you advice on getting the most out of your run.AdvertisementOutdoor groups. If you’re willing to wake up and work out early (we’re talking 6:30 a.m.), then the November Project and The Rise NYC instructors will greet you with open arms and contagious energy rarely encountered at that hour. Both groups use the city as their gym, so expect to do sidewalk burpees, run a lot and use park benches as makeshift StairMasters.Exercise from home. This is the easiest option, though probably the hardest to stick with. Here’s a guide to short workouts you can do from home or on your lunch break. And here’s a nine-minute full-body strength training workout, and another you can do in seven minutes.Here’s what else is happening:It’s safe to jog this morning.After our frigid, weekslong cold spell, we’re looking at another comparatively comfortable day with a high of 40.Before you head out, you may want to pair some shades with your scarf. Lots of sun is in the forecast, but so are chilly winds.• As the temperature dropped into the single digits, the subway became the shelter of last resort for some of New York City’s homeless. [New York Times]• The number of traffic deaths in New York City plummeted in 2017 to the lowest level since record-keeping started over a century ago, city officials said. [New York Times]• Hundreds gathered at a memorial service in Harlem to say farewell to Erica Garner, who became an activist after her father, Eric Garner, was killed by the police on Staten Island. [New York Times]Advertisement• Officials are investigating the runway traffic jam that turned a chaotic but manageable winter-storm episode into an airport delay for the ages. [New York Times]• Four years after the fatal hazing of a Baruch College student, the fraternity he was trying to join was banned from operating in Pennsylvania for 10 years. [New York Times]• A family bid farewell on Monday to the five members they lost in a deadly Bronx fire. [New York Times]• A former lieutenant at a Brooklyn jail who is accused of using his authority to repeatedly rape a female inmate will stand trial this week. [New York Times]• The floor of Penn Station’s newly opened “state-of-the-art” West End Concourse is full of large cracks. [New York Post]• Snow fell for 66 straight hours in Syracuse, starting early Thursday and ending around noon Saturday, the National Weather Service said. [Democrat and Chronicle]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Temperatures hit the single digits over the weekend, causing pipes to burst and homes to flood across Brooklyn. [Bklyner]• This Brooklyn woman has spent much of her life caring for loved ones. She now faces her own medical problems, and has made her mental health a priority. [New York Times]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Crossing Against the Light”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Advertisement• NYC Audubon leads a bird watching walk beginning at the Netherland Monument in Battery Park in Lower Manhattan. 8 a.m. [Free]• How do you balance a career in poetry and the needs of a young family? Four poets discuss the topic at the Pen Parentis Literary Salon at the Andaz Wall Street in Lower Manhattan. 7 p.m. [Free]• Dance companies from across the U.S. perform during the weeklong American Dance Platform festival at the Joyce Theater in Chelsea. 8 p.m. [Tickets begin at $36]• The comedian Aasif Mandvi performs during the variety show “Nat Towsen’s Downtown Variety Hour” at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in the East Village. 7:30 p.m. [$9]• Alternate-side parking remains suspended through Wednesday for snow operations.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.Winter Restaurant Week is fast approaching, and reservations for the more than 370 restaurants that participate opened up this week.We know, we’re giving you mixed signals here: free workouts and multicourse meals. But according to science, you’ll have a better chance of getting off the couch if you have an incentive.And what’s a better incentive than pineapple-braised pork belly from Noreetuh or duck carnitas tacos at Empellón? (Both are New York Times critic’s picks.)AdvertisementDuring Restaurant Week, three-course dinners are $42, and lunch and brunch are $29.You’ll want to make reservations now for the more popular restaurants, which offer the prix fixe menus Jan. 22 through Feb. 9.You can see a full list of participating restaurants, and search by cuisine, here.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHRISTINA CARONJAN. 9, 2018
Maggie Nichols announced Tuesday that she, too, was sexually abused by the former U.S.A. Gymnastics team physician Dr. Lawrence G. Nassar, and that she was the first to report the abuse to the sport’s national governing body.“Up until now, I was identified as Athlete A by U.S.A. Gymnastics, the U.S. Olympic Committee and Michigan State University,” Ms. Nichols said in a statement provided by her lawyer, John Manly. “I want everyone to know that he did not do this to Athlete A, he did it to Maggie Nichols.”Ms. Nichols’s mother, Gina Nichols, said in a phone interview that her daughter finally felt comfortable speaking out after “living with this torment” for so long.“We kept being told U.S.A. Gymnastics is handling it, so she just did what she was told to do, and she was told to keep quiet,” said Gina Nichols, who accused U.S.A. Gymnastics of a cover-up. “If she uses her voice and comes forward, she feels she might be able to help others.”AdvertisementIn speaking out, Ms. Nichols joins the former team members McKayla Maroney, Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas, and more than 100 other women who say they were abused by the doctor.AdvertisementThe abuse began when she was 15 years old, Ms. Nichols said. At the time she was a rising star on the United States national team, aiming for a spot at the Olympics.“My back was really hurting me, I couldn’t even really bend down, and I remember he took me into the training room, closed the door and closed the blinds,” she said. “I trusted what he was doing at first, but then he started touching me in places I really didn’t think he should. He didn’t have gloves on and he didn’t tell me what he was doing.”She added, “He did this ‘treatment’ on me, on numerous occasions.”Dr. Nassar would also pay her compliments on Facebook, and tell her how beautiful she was, Ms. Nichols said. At the time, she thought “he was trying to be nice to me.”Now, she said, “I believe this was part of the grooming process I recently learned about.”She reported the abuse to U.S.A. Gymnastics in the summer of 2015, she said, setting off an investigation into Dr. Nassar, who was fired that year.But according to Ms. Nichols’s lawyer, U.S.A. Gymnastics waited five weeks to notify law enforcement, and did not report the reason for Dr. Nassar’s dismissal to Michigan State University, where he continued to practice medicine until he was arrested. Likewise, Michigan State did not alert U.S.A. Gymnastics when the university investigated Dr. Nassar in 2014, Mr. Manly said.U.S.A. Gymnastics wasn’t informed in 2014 because the result of the investigation was that there was not a policy violation, “and the local prosecutor’s office reviewed the case and declined to press charges against Nassar,” Jason Cody, a spokesman for Michigan State University, said in an email on Tuesday. “Also, the complainant was not a gymnast or a minor, nor did the complaint involve allegations of penetration.”U.S.A. Gymnastics said in a statement on Tuesday that it was “entirely baseless” to suggest that it had attempted to silence athletes or keep the investigation secret, and that it never tried to hide Dr. Nassar’s misconduct.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“U.S.A. Gymnastics kept the matter confidential because of the F.B.I.’s directive not to interfere with the investigation,” the organization said. “U.S.A. Gymnastics reported Nassar to the F.B.I. in July 2015 and to a different F.B.I. office again in April 2016.”AdvertisementWhen Ms. Nichols reported the abuse, U.S.A. Gymnastics hired “an experienced, independent investigator to speak with her and others,” it said in the statement, and that investigator recommended that U.S.A. Gymnastics report the abuse to law enforcement, at which point the F.B.I. “took over the matter.”U.S.A. Gymnastics said it cooperated fully with the F.B.I. and refrained from discussing the matter in accordance with a “request to not do anything that might interfere with their investigation.”Ms. Nichols retired in 2016 and has been competing collegiately instead.When she announced that she would be leaving elite gymnastics, Ms. Nichols was a four-time United States medal winner and a member of the 2015 world championship gold-medal winning team, where she also won individual bronze on floor. She was not selected for the Olympic team, and said a knee injury was part of what prevented her from continuing.“After I hurt my knee, the doctors were telling me how much time I needed before I could start running or jumping,” she said at the time. “It was a lot to take mentally because I was watching all of the other girls getting better and better. I felt like I was always catching up and never at the level I wanted.”Since joining the University of Oklahoma last year, Ms. Nichols has ranked first in the nation, and ESPN called her “the best collegiate gymnast in the country.”Gina Nichols said U.S.A. Gymnastics has never inquired about her daughter’s well-being, or offered to send her to therapy. “Never, nothing,” she said. “Not once.”“For me as a parent, I feel like what happened to my daughter was inexcusable, gross negligence,” she added.Dr. Nassar pleaded guilty to sexually abusing gymnasts under the guise of medical treatment, and was sentenced in December to 60 years in prison on child pornography charges after more than 37,000 images of child pornography were found on his computer.He is expected to be sentenced to 25 years or more on the molestation charges.“U.S.A. Gymnastics and the U.S.O.C. did not provide a safe environment for me and my teammates to train,” Ms. Nichols said in her statement on Tuesday. “We were subjected to Dr. Nassar at every National Team Camp which occurred monthly at the Karolyi Ranch. His job was to care for our health and treat our injuries. Instead, he violated our innocence.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
JONATHAN  WOLFE

JAN. 10, 2018
Good morning on this defrosting Wednesday.As they are for many working moms, Diana Limongi Gabriele’s mornings are a scramble.At her apartment in Astoria, Queens, yesterday, she made breakfast for her family, prepared her 6-year-old for school and then got herself ready for work. At one point, she held her infant daughter to her chest to breast-feed with one hand and checked her phone for updates on a work meeting with the other.“I have to hand her off soon,” said Ms. Limongi Gabriele, 35, pausing to smile at her daughter. “There are things that I would love to do with her just to bond, a lot of stuff during the week that I can’t do if I’m at work.”Soon, Ms. Limongi Gabriele won’t have to choose between focusing on her daughter or her job as an assistant at New York University: She is set to be among the first beneficiaries of New York State’s new paid family leave policy, which the governor’s office has called the strongest in the nation.AdvertisementOn Jan. 1, New York joined three other states — California, New Jersey and Rhode Island — in offering some form of paid family leave. New Yorkers are now eligible to take paid time off work to bond with a newly born, adopted or fostered child; to care for a close relative with a serious health condition; or when a family member is deployed on active military service abroad.AdvertisementThe law offers eight weeks off, paid at 50 percent of the worker’s average weekly wage, with a cap of $652.96 per week. It will phase in over four years, until 2021, when New Yorkers will be allowed to take 12 weeks of paid leave at nearly 70 percent of their average wage. Employers do not pay for the benefit — instead, it’s financed through a 0.126 percent payroll contribution from all New Yorkers.Ms. Limongi Gabriele is familiar with what unpaid leave feels like.When her daughter, Sofia, was born in March of last year, she and her husband dipped into their savings and charged necessities like groceries to a credit card so she could stretch her time off work to almost four months.“I’m glad I had the opportunity to spend time with my baby,” Ms. Limongi Gabriele said, but the financial instability “kind of had me freaked out.”Under the new law, parents can take the paid leave any time before their child turns 1, giving Ms. Limongi Gabriele five more weeks with Sofia.Ms. Limongi Gabriele, who has become an advocate for paid family leave on her blog about motherhood, said she was able to take this second leave only because she would be paid.“I’m glad that as a society we’re realizing that it’s not only benefiting parents that are having children,” she said. “It goes toward helping build a solid foundation for our children, who are going to be contributing members of society someday.”Still, the current law is not perfect, Ms. Limongi Gabriele said.It would be hard for some single parents in New York City to make ends meet, she said, “and what we really need is a national law that covers more people.”Advertisement“But it’s meaningful and a move in the right direction,” she said. “Four out of 50 states with paid family leave? Baby steps, I guess.”Here’s what else is happening:We’re thawing out.At this point, anything above freezing is fine by us, and today we’re in luck. The high is a nippy, but not nasty, 40.Wind gusts this afternoon could make it feel a bit colder, but stay strong. Tomorrow could jump into the 50s.• A Brooklyn assemblywoman is facing federal charges of defrauding government agencies, including one scheme where she was said to have falsely claimed Hurricane Sandy relief. [New York Times]• Detectives identified the suspect in a 1994 rape case in Prospect Park, putting an end to an unsolved crime and some controversy that lingered with it. [New York Times]• The police commissioner is shaking up the department hierarchy in an effort to further its new neighborhood policing initiative, which aims to increase community outreach. [New York Times]• The police union is arguing in State Supreme Court that the release of body camera videos to the public violates state law protecting officers’ personnel records from disclosure. [New York Times]• Gov. Chris Christie delivered his final State of the State address, capping his eight-year tenure as the Republican governor of New Jersey. [New York Times]• The district attorneys in Manhattan and Brooklyn have ordered prosecutors to no longer request bail in nonviolent misdemeanor cases. [New York Times]Advertisement• In “About New York,” the columnist Jim Dwyer describes how the end of a lease and impossible rent demands are causing a stalwart Upper Manhattan restaurant to close its doors. [New York Times]• After bouncing between foster homes since being removed from a toxic home life, a young woman finds strength in theater. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• A nonunion group, invoking a new city law, says it has enlisted enough members to force restaurants to deduct the workers’ dues and forward the money to the group. [New York Times]• Is it a fair fee or an unjust charge? Times readers reacted to the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s new admission policy. [New York Times]• Roughly 16,000 Salvadorans living in New York may face deportation under President Trump’s most recent immigration order. [New York Daily News]• A tunnel or bridge connecting Long Island to Westchester or Connecticut would cost over $55 billion. [CBS New York]• A school bus carrying children in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, flipped onto its side in the center of an intersection. [NBC New York]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Beige Mule on the Tracks”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Advertisement• Learn some of the basics of American Sign Language at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 10:45 a.m. [Free]• The musician Art Garfunkel presents his book, “What Is It All but Luminous: Notes From an Underground Man,” at Barnes & Noble on the Upper West Side. 7 p.m. [Free]• A screening of “Razzia” kicks off the New York Jewish Film Festival (though Jan. 23) at the Film Society of Lincoln Center on the Upper West Side. 7:30 p.m. [$25]• The comedians and former “30 Rock” cast members Scott Adsit and John Lutz perform at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Hell’s Kitchen. 8 p.m. [$9]• Looking ahead: A reading of the musical comedy “Viva Max!” at the Actor’s Temple in Midtown. Jan. 15 at 7 p.m. [Free]• Bulls at Knicks, 7:30 p.m. (MSG). Pistons at Nets, 7:30 p.m. (YES).• Alternate-side parking remains suspended for snow operations.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.Electric buses are hitting the streets this week.The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is rolling out a pilot program of 10 buses that run entirely on electricity, with the goal of reducing emissions from our city’s fleet.AdvertisementThe vehicles are equipped with Wi-Fi and USB charging ports, and are quieter than traditional gas buses.They’ll be running on the B32 route between Brooklyn and Queens and on the M42 and M50 routes in Midtown Manhattan.The buses are another step in our city and state’s mission to tackle climate change — New Yorkers can already feel proud that they live in the state with the lowest per capita energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in the nation.If successful, the M.T.A. said it would order 60 more electric buses and expand the program throughout the city.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Restaurant Review By                     
 PETE WELLS
 
JAN. 9, 2018

CreditAntoine Bootz for The New York Times        Ferris manages to do a lot within the confines of its small space in the basement of the new Made hotel, south of Herald Square. At times it reminded me of one of those Leatherman tools that unfolds to reveal not just a knife and screwdriver but also a spoke wrench, fish scaler, eyelash curler, olive pitter, tuning fork and eel skinner.One recent night I sat at Ferris’s seven-seat kitchen counter. I didn’t realize that I was also sitting at Ferris’s bar until the bartender standing in front of me had measured my drink, strained it into a stem glass and set it on a napkin, all without moving more than one step to the right or left.She had whipped up a citrus-sheathed gin number with a rustle of Chartreuse called a 388 C, and it was about as cheerful a kickoff to the dinner hour as anything I’ve come across lately. In fact, almost all the drinks that Ferris’s bartenders stir up in about four square feet of space are smarter and more bracing than what typically comes out of a full-size bar, and often they are poured into vintage etched glasses that any neo-speakeasy would envy.The cocktails encapsulate Ferris’s most likable traits. It’s a modest restaurant that overdelivers, cares about little details and has a personal, handmade sensibility. It doesn’t quite give you the feeling of showing up at a friend’s place for dinner, but it comes closer than a lot of places where that’s the explicit aim.AdvertisementThe illusion is aided by the carpentered interior. The single dining room, clad in raw two-by-eights, could be a suburban basement finished over the weekend by a couple with a table saw. A long cushioned bench built into one end of the room provides about half the seating, along with the stools at high tables and the counter.AdvertisementThere’s no lobby or reception area to speak of. If you arrive by elevator you’re facing the kitchen, and if you take the stairs from the sidewalk you walk straight into the action in the dining room.Standing behind the counter and facing the customers is the chef, Greg Proechel. He is generally holding a knife and spends much of the night carving meat. His cooking has settled down since his last job, at Le Turtle, a deliberately odd French spot on Chrystie Street. There, he had some original ideas but didn’t always seem to know the difference between the good ones and the bad ones.At Ferris, his only bad idea so far is trying to make roasted sunchokes into a main course, and by the time I gave up on the plate, filled out with smoked cabbage and sauced with scallion miso, I’d decided that sunchokes themselves were more to blame than Mr. Proechel.He is on firmer ground with other vegetables: Okinawa sweet potatoes, their purple flesh mashed so it opens up to a splash of buttermilk and pumpkin mustard; or roasted beets with soft curls of fresh coconut, dressed in a dark tahini made from black sesame seeds; or charred stalks of broccolini with grapes and cashews (welcome back, cashews, we’ve missed you) scattered over a cushion of yogurt spiced with Timur pepper — a relative of the Sichuan peppercorn.Agnolotti with a buttery and nearly liquid carrot filling are one of Ferris’s more appealing main dishes; they’re tossed with braised lamb neck. Maybe they would be slightly better without chips of crunchy raw carrot on top; contrary to popular belief, not every dish needs what chefs like to call texture.Mr. Proechel has a keen sense for contrasting flavors, though. He uses red pepper and sticky grilled dates to make what has to be the most exciting blood sausage in town. A chunk of grilled mackerel that any izakaya could be proud of sits in ponzu with — surprise — plums and an egg yolk cooked so that it looks and spreads like lemon curd.If you have heard anything at all about Le Turtle, then you know about the Sasso chicken that came to the table on a bed of smoldering hay with its head and feet still attached; it tasted great even though it looked as if the fire department had arrived too late at a four-alarm blaze in a chicken coop.Nothing at Ferris makes heads swivel and nostrils twitch in quite the same way, but if it’s a table-annexing feast you want, then the côte de boeuf with “all the fixings” is the dish for you.AdvertisementMr. Proechel has his own notions about “fixings.” I have never looked at a grilled beef rib and thought that what it really needed was a bowl of whipped buttermilk, but apparently he has, and I have to give him credit. Beating the buttermilk turns it into something between yogurt and whipped cream; mixing that with charred cipollini makes it into a particularly luxurious onion dip. There’s also a paste of black garlic to serve as a super-concentrated steak sauce, and a shaved brussels sprout salad for relief from the richness. The only false move here was the sodden dumplings in broth, and they were easy enough to ignore in all the excitement.The danger of putting a firecracker like that on the menu is that the half of the dining room that didn’t order it ends up staring glumly at the half that did. That was me, one night, looking at the women at the corner table who doted on their steak for an hour while I poked at my (perfectly all right) cod with clams and hazelnuts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.When you are ready for something to drink with the côte de boeuf, you run into another surprise of this Swiss Army knife of a restaurant: the versatile wine list, overseen by Jenny Lakin. It’s not long, and it draws mainly from France and Italy, but it’s been carefully drafted to include relative values from expensive regions and out-and-out values from less traveled areas.Ferris doesn’t knock itself out for the dessert course. The few sweets are simple and pleasant, though, from the yuzu-lemon frozen yogurt to a dark chocolate mousse stuck with chips of jasmine meringue.Ms. Lakin’s list carries over into dessert territory with amari, absinthes, liqueurs, eaux-de-vie and other end-of-the-night shots. Where all these bottles are stored I never figured out.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.44 West 29th Street(Avenue of the Americas)Chelsea212-213-4420ferrisnyc.comAtmosphere A small, intimate, lumber-clad basement dining room with an open kitchen. Service is warm and welcoming, but can go missing for short periods.Sound Moderate.Menu singlepage.com/ferris-16Recommended Dishes Blood sausage; grilled mackerel; sepia; beets; Okinawa sweet potato; carrot agnolotti; côte de boeuf; chocolate mousse; lemon-yuzu frozen yogurt. Appetizers, $4 to $16; main courses, $23 to $29; côte de boeuf prices vary by weight.Drinks and Wine Cocktails are unusually good, as is the tightly edited wine list.Price $$$ (expensive)Open Nightly for dinner.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access Dining room and accessible restrooms are reached by elevator.
What the Stars Mean
            Ratings range from zero to four stars. Zero is poor, fair or satisfactory. One star, good. Two stars, very good. Three stars, excellent. Four stars, extraordinary.
        
                This information was last updated: Jan. 25, 2018 A version of this review appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: A Firecracker of a Beef Rib and Other Surprises at Ferris.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHARLES McDERMIDJAN. 8, 2018
Good morning. Here’s what you need to know:• The Trump administration said that nearly 200,000 people from El Salvador who have been allowed to live and work in the U.S. since earthquakes devastated their homeland in 2001 must leave the country.The announcement came after Department of Homeland Security officials said they were ending a humanitarian program known as Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., ignoring pleas from immigrant advocates and the Salvadoran government to extend it.The move had its supporters. “We need to put the ‘T’ back into T.P.S.,” one said. Above, Veronica Lagunas and her two children._____• The Chinese authorities warned that an Iranian oil tanker, the Sanchi, that collided with another ship off China’s coast could explode and sink.AdvertisementRescuers were searching for the tanker’s crew of 30 Iranians and two Bangladeshis. Flames and thick black smoke were seen pouring from the Sanchi in images released by the South Korean Coast Guard and the Chinese state news media.AdvertisementGreenpeace said the accident may become an environmental disaster._____• Beijing’s regulators are cracking down on Amway, the American marketing giant that found financial salvation in China, growing to more than $2.6 billion in revenue.Now, Amway and other companies that use sales representatives to recruit others below them — in what’s called multilevel marketing — face public skepticism, and in some cases investigations.Amway’s name in Chinese, an li, has even entered the vernacular to mean to “promote heavily” or to “be brainwashed.”_____• In Iran, President Hassan Rouhani used the recent nationwide protests to attack his hard-line opponents, saying the people who took to the streets did so because they were seeking a better life.Mr. Rouhani said the protesters objected not just to the bad economy but also to widespread corruption and the clergy-led government’s restrictions on personal conduct.Even so, Iran over the weekend banned the teaching of English in primary schools after religious leaders warned that it opened the way to a Western “cultural invasion.”_____• A senior BBC News editor for China resigned, accusing the network of operating a “secretive and illegal” salary system that pays men more than women in similar positions.AdvertisementThe editor, Carrie Gracie, who joined the BBC 30 years ago, said she only recently learned that her male colleagues earned 50 percent more than she did. She was offered a raise, but still not a salary matching her male counterparts.“I simply want the BBC to abide by the law and value men and women equally,” Ms. Gracie, above, wrote in an open letter posted online._____• A rousing call-to-arms by Oprah Winfrey capturing the #MeToo mood was the highlight of a Golden Globes ceremony that confronted the issues of gender equality and sexual abuse.“What I know for sure is that speaking your truth is the most powerful tool we all have,” Ms. Winfrey said, accepting a lifetime achievement award. Read the full speech here, which set off a cascade of calls for her to run for president in 2020.Here’s a full list of the winners, and pictures from the red carpet._____What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• In India, cash is king, despite aggressive campaigns from electronic payment firms like Paytm, a local player with financing from Alibaba, and U.S. tech giants like Facebook, Google and PayPal.• “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” bombed in China, the world’s second-largest movie market, with only $28.7 million in ticket sales over three days.• Shares in GoPro sank on a dismal revenue forecast, and is this the year Twitter is sold? Check out these stories and others in our new DealBook Briefing.• Chinese airlines took the last three spots in a new global ranking of airlines based on on-time arrivals. Air China’s on-time rating was just 60 percent.Advertisement• U.S. stocks were flat. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Same-sex marriage is finally legal in Australia, and some eager couples took their vows right after midnight. [ABC]• North and South Korean negotiators will meet for the first time since 2015. The talks will focus on North Korea’s participation in the Winter Olympics, to begin in South Korea next month, and “inter-Korean relationships.” [CNN]• “The ancient Silk Roads were never only Chinese.” President Emmanuel Macron of France, visiting China, said Beijing’s “Belt and Road” initiative could not be “one-way.” [Reuters]• In Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad, 92, will face Prime Minister Najib Razak in the next general election. [The Straits Times]• Another U.S. military helicopter made an emergency landing in Okinawa, this time near a resort hotel. The police said no one was hurt. [The Asahi Shimbun]• In Vietnam, a major corruption trial has begun. Most of the 22 defendants are current or former senior oil executives. [AP]• A Chinese rap star facing criticism for his sexist lyrics blamed the influence of “black music.” [Agence France-Presse]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Don’t let a lack of self-awareness hold you back.Advertisement• Planning on getting organized this year? Try a paper planner, instead of apps.• Recipe of the day: Make a loaf of classic zucchini bread for yourself, and another to share.• Only two stripes  demarcate the border between China’s restive Xinjiang region and Kazakhstan. In fact, it’s unusually easy to enter a special zone between the nations, unless your garb suggests you have Islamist leanings.• In memoriam. Tatsuro Toyoda, 88, son of the founder of the Toyota Motor Corporation who led its international expansion; Ron Tandberg, 74, a celebrated Australian political cartoonist who “stood for the little man.”• And security footage showed a thief in Denmark swiping a bottle of vodka worth $1.3 million. It was recovered dented, the police said — and drained to the last drop.Welcome to the year of purple.The Pantone Color Institute, which helps manufacturers select colors for designs, has been naming a color of the year since 2000 (It chose Greenery last year, and Rose Quartz — think millennial pink — shared the title with Serenity blue in 2016).This year the shade is Ultra Violet. “We wanted to pick something that brings hope and an uplifting message,” the institute’s director, Leatrice Eiseman, told The Times.In ancient times, purple dye was made from the mucus of sea snails in the Phoenician city of Tyre, in what is now Lebanon’s Mediterranean coast.Because the color was difficult and expensive to produce, it became associated with power and royalty, from ancient Rome to the kingdoms of Europe. In the 1500s, Queen Elizabeth I decreed that only members of the royal family could wear the color.AdvertisementIn 1856, a British chemist, William Henry Perkin, made the color more accessible when he accidentally created a purple dye while trying to concoct a treatment for malaria.More than 160 years later, a color that’s rare in nature is about to have its moment.For more on the color purple, read on.Valencia Prashad contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Browse past briefings here. We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Off the Menu By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 9, 2018
SOOGIL Early in his career, Soogil Lim, a native of South Korea, switched from academia — biology — to food, and eventually graduated from the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y. He became a sous-chef at Daniel, then moved on to be executive chef at Hanjan in the Flatiron district. Now he’s on his own, with a personal take on Korean food. Brussels sprouts are tossed with pan-fried tofu, peanuts and crispy seaweed; a mung bean pancake is made with sprouts, kimchi and lard; root vegetables and soy sauce accompany braised short ribs; flaked cod comes with soy-braised radish; and spicy soft tofu with assorted seafood swim in a seafood broth. His intimate restaurant, seating fewer than 40, is a study in neutral tones, enlivened with art and Korean pottery: 108 East Fourth Street (First Avenue), 646-838-5524, soogil.com.TACOMBI The fifth and largest branch of this Mexican restaurant featuring tacos is opening in the Empire State Building. The vibrant décor reflects the building’s Art Deco style. An open kitchen, where Vista Hermosa, the Mexican food company owned by Tacombi, will also be making fresh masa and tortillas, anchors part of the space. Agave spirits and fresh juices are a feature of the bar. The menu offers a dozen tacos inspired by various Mexican regions, but with street food inclinations, thanks to fillings like the classic pork al pastor. Quesadillas, filled flour tortillas (campechanos), rice and beans, and guacamole round out the menu. (Opens Thursday): 23 West 33rd Street, 212-967-5555, tacombi.com.WEST-BOURNE Camilla Marcus, an entrepreneur in restaurants and technology, is opening this cafe focusing on two culinary styles, vegetarian and Californian. A mushroom Reuben sandwich is among the dishes from the chef, Amy Yi. Through a partnership arranged with the nonprofit Robin Hood Foundation, Ms. Marcus, a Los Angeles native, will donate a portion of every sale to the Door, an organization that offers job training for young people and immigrants, some of whom she employs. (Wednesday): 137 Sullivan Street (Prince Street), 347-534-3050 westbourne.com.THE RAG TRADER This garment district newcomer, in a former clothing factory, pays homage to its past not only with its name but also with vintage artifacts like old sewing machines. The multilevel space is divided into a collection of areas for dining and drinking. The chef, Justin Ottervanger, prepares gastro-pub fare like sriracha deviled eggs, baby back ribs, pizza, beef tartare, mussels, and hanger steak frites. The basement houses the Bo Peep Cocktail & Highball Store, taking its name from a company, Bo Peep Manufacturing, that once occupied the premises: 70 West 36th Street, 917-2612-5495, ragtradernyc.com.Advertisement2 SPRING Jesse Schenker, the chef who has closed both his Manhattan restaurants, Recette and the Gander, is opening on Nassau County’s Gold Coast. The menu is American, buffed with touches like a smoked fish dip alongside crudités, linguine with clams in a shellfish bisque, arugula and ricotta salata in the kale salad, and lobster spiced with harissa and served with a savory bread pudding. He plans to continue his program, started in Manhattan, of offering 10-course tasting menus on alternate Monday evenings. (Wednesday): 2 Spring Street, Oyster Bay, N.Y., 516-624-2411, 2springstreet.com.AdvertisementDUE WEST The emphasis is as much on drinks as it is on food at this West Village spot conceived by a team of owners, some of whom are veterans of Locanda Verde. A highlight of the cocktail list is a craft-your-own old-fashioned. Adabis Castro, who was at Atrium Dumbo and Le Bilboquet, is the chef, offering raw bar selections, bar snacks like chickpea fritters, small plates like beef tartare, and more substantial whole fluke and chicken dishes. The décor leans toward luxe, and there’s contemporary art on the walls. (Wednesday): 189 West 10th Street (Bleecker Street), 646-687-4609, duewestnyc.com.ZAVO RESTAURANT & LOUNGE This lavish two-story Mediterranean restaurant with an emphasis on steakhouse fare is owned by Michael and Ilya Zavolun, who have had an elaborate catering hall in Elmhurst, Queens, for years. In the ground-floor dining room of their new Manhattan restaurant, not to be confused with Lavo nearby, some of the dishes take their inspiration from Greece and Morocco. The second floor is for private events, and also offers themed evening entertainment, like a Russian night on Thursdays and a Moroccan night on Wednesdays: 1011 Third Avenue (60th Street), 212-753-5500, zavonyc.com.BARO BY CHEFS SOCIETY A think tank organization of chefs and food personalities, Chefs Society, has developed this Korean gastro pub, bringing a modern culinary outlook to Manhattan’s Koreatown. The spacious wood-paneled restaurant with a long bar and a menu of many traditional and updated Korean dishes like braised pork belly on endives, kimchi beef sliders with aioli, seafood and scallion pancakes, and Korean-style fried chicken wings with assorted sauces. Wine lovers should note the relatively gentle $30 per bottle corkage, and allowing two bottles for two people: 34 West 32nd Street, 212-736-0029, baronyc.com.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.NEW YORK SUSHI KO The sushi chef John Daley, who has wielded the yanagiba knife at his eight-seat omakase counter since June 2013, will close after service on Saturday: 91 Clinton Street (Rivington Street), 917-734-5857, newyorksushiko.com.LANGAN’S PUB & RESTAURANT Last call will be Jan. 18 at this theater district institution, which has been pouring beer from a long list and serving bangers and mash, burgers and corned beef for nearly 25 years. A rent increase is putting it out of business. The New York Post reported the news on Monday: 150 West 47th Street, 212-869-5482, langans.com.ATLANTIC GRILL This popular Upper East Side fish house from BR Guest Restaurants has closed after two decades. The newer Lincoln Center branch remains open. Along with Ocean Grill and Isabella’s, it’s another casualty on the list of BR Guest restaurants created by Stephen Hanson, who ran the company until 2013.GREENWICH GRILLE This West Village spot has closed. It opened last fall to replace 33 Greenwich, with Harold Moore, formerly of Commerce and now at Harold’s Meat & Three, in the kitchen.VERMILION The sprawling Midtown branch of Rohini Dey’s modern Indian restaurant, with roots in Chicago, has closed after nine years. During its residence in New York, Ms. Dey was a champion of women in the restaurant business.WASSAIL The holiday season is over, and this celebration of cider on the Lower East Side has also ended its nearly three-year run.AdvertisementFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article, using information from a publicist, misstated the phone number for Soogil. It is 646-838-5524.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D8 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By YONETTE JOSEPH and NILO TABRIZYJAN. 7, 2018
LONDON — It was so cold in some parts of the world this past week that iguanas were falling from trees, sharks were dying and eyelashes were freezing in the shadow of a mountain where the wind chill could make the air feel as cold as minus 100 Fahrenheit.The world became familiar with the phrase “bomb cyclone” — also known as a winter hurricane.Amid the face-freezing misery, one phenomenon that is a staple of winter has drawn greater attention in an era of prolific social media use: the frozen pond rescue. Twitter and Facebook users shared video footage of the heroes of winter who dived into icy waters to save men, women and animals.The rescues unfolded as winter’s icy grip unleashed a storm named Eleanor that barreled across Europe, setting off a deadly avalanche in the Austrian Alps, where two German skiers were killed on Friday near Kals in Tyrol State, according to Bild. Twenty skiers also had to be rescued from cable cars in Kitzbühel, Austria.The storm whipped up dangerous winds in Britain, where it knocked out power to thousands. The gusts blew a train car off its tracks in Sweden, injuring eight people.AdvertisementIn Spain, snow blanketed half the country this weekend, including in southern cities like Granada, trapping hundreds of drivers overnight Saturday in their cars. The army’s emergency units were called in on Sunday to help clear the snow off a highway near Madrid.AdvertisementThe Spanish weather office issued alerts for 37 provinces on Sunday, warning of further snowfall, as well as strong rain and high winds in regions like Catalonia, on one of the busiest travel days of the year in Spain as people returned home after the Epiphany holiday on Saturday.To be sure, other cities in warmer climes could not relate. Sydney, Australia, for example, experienced what officials said was its hottest day in 79 years when the mercury hit 47.3 Celsius (117 Fahrenheit) on Sunday.But the mean winter season brought unseasonably cold to parts of Asia, such as Myanmar, where orphaned elephants had to be wrapped in knitted blankets; and to New York, where hundreds of flights were delayed and Kennedy Airport remained in disarray on Sunday after a water main burst and flooded a terminal.Scenes of people and animals being freed from the ice have drawn legions of viewers. The gripping rescues include the case of a Utah sheriff’s deputy, Sgt. Aaron Thompson. He punched through ice and stood on his tippy toes to keep from going under in freezing water in New Harmony to rescue an 8-year-old boy who was chasing a dog when he fell in on Dec. 25.Here are some other notable episodes.In December, Chinese social media users praised a good Samaritan’s efforts to free a woman from a frozen river in Hebei Province.The man had been cycling to work on Dec. 26 when he saw the 70-year-old woman fall into an icy river, according to news reports. While other passers-by on a bridge nearby called for the police, he tried to pull the woman out.It was not clear how the woman fell in. But the footage showed the man, identified as Shi Lei, 54, trying mightily to pull her to safety — keeping his glasses on during the entire ordeal.AdvertisementShe appears dazed as he tugs on her red top, struggles to pull her out of the freezing water and pounds on the ice to clear a path. Her arms remain limp.Finally, as part of the ice collapses, he plunges in waist-deep and hoists her to safety as another man drags a plank close to help get her onto solid ground.Days later, firefighters in Tangshan in northern China rescued a man who had fallen into a frozen lake while ice fishing.When a dog named Nisel fell through the ice in a pond in New Jersey in December, the animal could not climb out no matter how she tried.Officers Robert Voorhees and George Peterson, along with Hopewell Valley Emergency Services and Pennington Fire Company personnel, headed to the pond to assist the dog’s owner, according to news media reports.Footage shows one officer, a cord tied around his torso, crawling on the ice toward the dog as she splashes fruitlessly on the edge of the pond.A woman, presumed to be the animal’s owner, can be heard calling out encouragement to the dog: “Come on, Nisel!” “Good girl!” “He’s coming! He’s coming!”In the final scramble, man and dog are pulled to safety.“We’ve got to warm this dog up,” one officer says afterward as the dog runs off in the snow.Deputies from the Macomb County Sheriff’s Office in Michigan used lots of rope, a tractor, an ax and other implements to pull out a horse that could not get its legs out of icy waters on Dec. 13.AdvertisementThe Ray Township Fire Department joined the rescue effort, but it was a long haul.A deputy fell through the ice while trying to attach a rope to the exhausted horse’s bridle. He was quickly pulled out, uninjured.In the end, the tired horse, who seemed frozen in fear, was yanked free. After a checkup by a veterinarian, the horse was given a clean bill of health.Then there was the 13-year-old boy who did not fall through the ice, but caused a stir on social media anyway.Sgt. Spencer Cannon of the Utah County Sheriff’s Office posted on Twitter the tale of the unidentified teenager who had a fight with his parents and took off on a six-mile trek — without a coat — across a “barely frozen” Utah Lake to cool off in late December.
            He was not wearing a coat. But the rigor of walking six miles seemed to have kept him relatively warm.        The boy’s parents called the police to report that their son had set off from the Saratoga Springs marina area. A search-and-rescue crew found the boy on the eastern shore of the lake when he finished crossing it around 5:30 on a Friday afternoon.For the last 20 to 30 yards, the sergeant said, an officer could hear the ice beneath him cracking.The boy told officers he had heard the same sound the whole time he was walking.“The ice was, and still is, very thin,” Sergeant Cannon told the local news media. “At our location on the east shore of Utah Lake, where the teen arrived after his cold walk, the ice was less than two inches thick. The temperature throughout that afternoon was 55 degrees, unseasonably warm.”“How the teen did not break through the ice, we do not know,” he marveled.
            When a 13 year old gets in an argument with his parents what will he do? A-Apologize, B-Go to his room and do homework, C-Walk from Saratoga Springs to Lindon Marina across barely frozen Utah Lake, or D-Go to the kitchen and do the dishes. If you guessed C you win!        Yonette Joseph reported from London, and Nilo Tabrizy from New York. Raphael Minder contributed reporting from Málaga, Spain.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUMJAN. 7, 2018
In the weeks after Stephen K. Bannon’s ouster from the Trump White House last August, his flagship organization Breitbart News verged, at times, on a Bannon vanity project.Ads on the website promoted fidget spinners emblazoned with Mr. Bannon’s likeness ($7.95 each) and a 212-page hagiography — “Bannon: Always the Rebel,” by Keith Koffler. Breitbart writers were dispatched to Alabama to boost the Senate bid of Mr. Bannon’s preferred candidate, Roy S. Moore.But as Mr. Moore’s loss last month suggested, Mr. Bannon’s influence only stretches so far — a lesson that he is now confronting in humbling terms, as his leadership of Breitbart, arguably the most influential right-wing website, is suddenly in doubt.Mr. Bannon’s belief that his own cult of personality could satisfy Breitbart readers has run into the fallout from his brazen criticisms of President Trump, published by Michael Wolff in the book “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House.”AdvertisementOnce seen as a champion of Trumpism, Mr. Bannon has been reduced to “Sloppy Steve,” as Mr. Trump phrased it, with the White House urging Breitbart to consider removing Mr. Bannon. The quoted remarks have roiled not just members of his pro-Trump Breitbart audience, but also a major patron, the heiress Rebekah Mercer, who controls a minority stake in the site, where Mr. Bannon serves as executive chairman.AdvertisementThe question now: Does Mr. Bannon need Breitbart News more than Breitbart News needs Mr. Bannon?“People who go to Breitbart don’t go there everyday because they give a damn about Steve Bannon,” said Kurt Bardella, a former Breitbart spokesman. “We could be looking at a new world order here in terms of who will occupy the space of Donald Trump’s preferred conservative platform.”Mr. Bannon appears to be trying to stay at Breitbart. His penance began on Sunday, with a public statement in which he attempted to distance himself from his portrayal in Mr. Wolff’s book. For one thing, he claimed, his description of a 2016 meeting between Russians and Donald J. Trump Jr. as “treasonous” was intended to criticize Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, not the president’s son.Media figures more famous than Mr. Bannon have learned the hard way that audiences tend to remain loyal to institutions, rather than individuals. For Mr. Bannon, the possibility of losing control of Breitbart — the vehicle that propelled him into the national spotlight, and eventually the highest echelons of power — could present a significant test to his potency as a leader of a political and cultural movement.Among the most unsettling developments for the Bannon camp was losing the support of Ms. Mercer, a hard-line conservative donor, who said on Thursday that her family had ceased communicating with Mr. Bannon and denounced his statements in the Wolff book. “I have a minority interest in Breitbart News and I remain committed in my support for them,” Ms. Mercer said in a statement.Perhaps luckily for Mr. Bannon, Ms. Mercer cannot unilaterally dismiss him from his company. Mr. Bannon’s fate was probably in the hands of Breitbart’s other owners — the family of Andrew Breitbart, the founder, who died in 2012, and its chief executive, Larry Solov, the former Breitbart News general counsel and childhood friend of its founder.Representatives of Mr. Bannon and Breitbart News did not respond to inquiries over the weekend about Mr. Bannon’s future at the site.Under Mr. Bannon, who assumed stewardship after Mr. Breitbart’s death, Breitbart News moved from a scorched-earth fringe site — known mostly for publishing incendiary articles that were deemed sexist, racist and xenophobic — to an unlikely voice for disaffected conservatives and a rallying place for passionate supporters of Mr. Trump.AdvertisementIts readers remain faithful to the president, a fact that Mr. Bannon seemed to acknowledge in his statement on Sunday.Stephen Bannon, President Trump’s former chief strategist, was ousted from his post as executive chairman at Breitbart News, the right-wing website he used as a mouthpiece.“I am the only person to date to conduct a global effort to preach the message of Trump and Trumpism, and I remain ready to stand in the breach for this president’s efforts to make America great again,” he wrote.Mr. Bannon’s aggressive style and creative agitprop were clear factors in Breitbart’s recent success. On Facebook, its reach now rivals news organizations like Yahoo and The Washington Post. The site hired correspondents in Europe and the Middle East, and poached reporters from establishment news organizations like The Wall Street Journal.In Washington, Mr. Bannon kept a residence at the so-called Breitbart Embassy, a Capitol Hill townhouse controlled by the site, where he courted candidates and threw V.I.P.-filled soirees. A recent book party for Laura Ingraham, the Fox News host, attracted prominent journalists and White House officials.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But as Mr. Bannon nurtured his real-world aspirations, Breitbart’s audience waned from the heights of last year’s presidential race. In November, the site received 13.7 million unique visitors in the United States, according to data from comScore, down about 20 percent from last January. It also lost advertisers who did not want their brands to appear alongside Breitbart articles.The site struggled for acceptance in other ways, too. Despite employing a full-time reporter in the White House, Breitbart’s application for Congressional press credentials was denied. Its hunt for a larger headquarters in Washington was stymied by some commercial landlords who were uncomfortable about housing the business.Mr. Bannon, a tenacious and shrewd operator, may yet cling to his Breitbart chairmanship, and Mr. Trump is known to re-embrace associates even after public defenestrations. The campaign manager whom he fired in 2016, Corey Lewandowski, remains a close adviser.On Sunday afternoon, a blaring, all-capital-letters headline on Breitbart.com announced to readers that, reports notwithstanding, its leader was sticking with their cause. “Steve Bannon Issues Statement,” the headline read. “My Support Is ‘Unwavering’ for Trump and His Agenda.”A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Breitbart At Crossroad As Bannon Is Humbled.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By HENRY ALFORDJAN. 7, 2018
Here in the valley of my mid-50s, I try not to get into a swivet over my occasionally faulty memory: Sometimes the mind has a mind of its own. But when I read this chilling passage — “I am dementing. I am dementing. I am dementing.” — from Gerda Saunders’s recent memoir “Memory’s Last Breath: Field Notes on My Dementia,” I found myself starting to panic.In a world increasingly dominated by the Google/Apple/Facebook/Amazon hegemony, we hear a lot about the threat to privacy. But isn’t memory just as vulnerable? Now that, as the former New Republic editor Franklin Foer writes in “World Without Mind: The Existential Threat of Big Tech,” “our phone is an extension of our memory; we’ve outsourced basic functions to algorithms,” doesn’t the world seem like an ever-larger parking lot that has mysteriously swallowed our Toyota? Don’t we all wish, now more than ever, that acquaintances came equipped with their own “Previously on this series …” trailer?Mr. Foer and Ms. Saunders aren’t the only writers on this beat. Recent books by Robert Sapolsky, Michael Lemonick, Felicia Yap, Emily Barr, Dale Bredesen, Val Emmich, Oliver Sacks and Elizabeth Rosner, among others, have addressed the theme of non-historical memory. Last July alone, more than a dozen books specifically about the topic, most of them self-published, were released.You’d expect the themes of amnesia or powers of recall to be prevalent in thrillers or in memoirs by trauma survivors or over-beveraged rock stars, but even literary fiction is getting in on the act. In Rachel Khong’s sly, diaristic “Goodbye, Vitamin,” a 30-year-old who moves back home learns she has to care for a dementing father who has started leaving his pants in trees. In Alissa Nutting’s outrageous sex comedy “Made for Love,” a woman on the lam from her tech pioneer husband discovers that he has implanted a chip in her brain that allows him to download all her experiences.A majority of the recent or upcoming books about the topic, though, are nonfiction works that take a prescriptive approach to memory loss. I recently spent a month trying to follow the dictates of two of them, both written by doctors: Daniel G. Amen’s “Memory Rescue: Supercharge Your Brain, Reverse Memory Loss and Remember What Matters Most” and Andrew E. Budson and Maureen K. O’Connor’s “Seven Steps to Managing Your Memory: What’s Normal, What’s Not, and What to Do About It.”AdvertisementThe first thing I noticed about these two workbook-type tomes is, because they’re not intended to be read straight through, they repeat information so frequently as to render a reader frantic about his mental health. I kept wanting to ask Dr. Amen, a physician with his own chain of clinics: Didn’t you pimp turmeric 10 pages ago? Before reading the books, I’d taken eight memory tests that I’d found on various websites, to get a baseline of my powers of recall. Consolingly, I’d tested slightly above average for my age. But once turmeric started to ominously reappear, I felt like Jennifer Lawrence in “Mother.”AdvertisementOn the diet and exercise front, the two books were mostly in agreement: Strangely, neither wants you to lie on the couch while idly nursing a stick of French butter. (But take heart, both books want you to eat a little dark chocolate each day. Mr. Budson and Ms. O’Connor, who teach neurology at Boston University, don’t even stipulate that it needs to be unsweetened.)For me, the doctors’ bodily prescriptions fell into two categories: Things I Already Do, and Things I Can’t Be Bothered to Change. On the former front: I dance two hours a week, walk briskly 30 minutes a day and consume a lot of vegetables and water but not much alcohol or butter. On the latter: Hands off my trusty colleagues caffeine and baked goods, not to mention my occasional visitors, Mr. Charred Meats and Ms. Marijuana.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.When it came to recommended activities, this Scrabble enthusiast was dismayed to learn from Mr. Budson and Ms. O’Connor that “there is not currently strong enough evidence for us to suggest the use of brain-training games.” Rather, they encourage you to learn new skills or information while being social. To this end, I took an Iyengar yoga class. I chatted up a friend about the recent Mayweather-McGregor boxing bout. I had a CVS employee show me how to use a price scanner, and a church employee tell me what an undercroft is. (“Are we in the undercroft now?” I asked him. “Yes, we’re in the undercroft,” he told me. I felt like I’d wandered into a young adult novel about hot, troubled teens who foil the time-space continuum.)In a similar vein, Dr. Amen encourages you to undertake various activities while using your non-dominant hand. Slight splattery mayhem ensued in my kitchen one night when I tried to slice 30 or so cherry tomatoes in half with my left hand for a salad. It looked like an audience at La Scala had had very strong feelings about our floor tiles.Two of the books’ dictates seemed like they were demonstrably working. First, Dr. Amen recommends that you spend 15 minutes a day in deep prayer or meditation, which “reliably activates the prefrontal cortex.” Of the 30 days I tried meditating — I stare at a spot on the wall, and repeatedly clear my mind — I was unable to focus eight times and fell asleep once. But two of the sessions led to the most productive workdays I’ve had all year.I also noticed good results with memorization techniques wherein you create images in your mind. One of these is a rhyme that runs, “One is a bun, two is a shoe, three is a tree” and so on up to 10. Thus, if given a list of words to memorize that starts “sally, smokey, desperate,” I’d first imagine the “All in the Family” co-star Sally Struthers bursting from a hot dog bun; then a pair of shoes being barbecued; and then a tree whose roots spell out “kill me now.” Equally effective was imagining walking through our apartment and finding the 10 words, in groups of two or three, in various rooms. So, I’d imagine opening our front door and finding Sally Struthers, on fire, playing a nonspeaking juror on “Law and Order.”When I retook the eight online memory tests a month later, my scores mostly went up about 10 percent. I muffed one test, but, during it, a fly had landed on my keyboard: Confirmation of my suspicion that I don’t have a retention problem, but occasionally I have an attention one.In the end? I will probably keep meditating. I will definitely keep imagining 1970s sitcom stars emerging from breadstuffs. To celebrate my gains, I thought about buying Robert Wright’s “Why Buddhism Is True: The Science and Philosophy of Meditation and Enlightenment.” But, given my attention deficit, the better bet might be Mike McCormack’s much-lauded novel “Solar Bones,” about an Irishman ruminating, Molly Bloom-style, on his whole life: It’s written as one sentence.Henry Alford’s five books include “How to Live: A Search for Wisdom From Old People (While They Are Still on This Earth).” Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2018, on Page C4 of the New York edition with the headline: Here’s a Test: Remember This Headline Tomorrow.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 8, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump’s supporters aggressively countered revelations in a new book that some of his closest aides believe he is unstable. The president described himself as a “very stable genius.” Stephen Bannon, Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist, issued a striking mea culpa.Two things stand out, our chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe writes: how far Mr. Trump’s tweets deviate from the way past presidents expressed themselves and how rarely he has followed through on his words.Two Republican senators urged the Justice Department to investigate the former British spy behind the explosive dossier about Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia that became public nearly a year ago._____• In Germany, coalition talks have resumed in earnest more than three months after elections that left Chancellor Angela Merkel weakened.AdvertisementOur correspondent in Berlin looks at the sticking points, including immigration, health care and plans to overhaul the eurozone.AdvertisementMeanwhile in France, our correspondent looks at President Emmanuel Macron’s ambitions for the year ahead. His absolute self-confidence — critics say, arrogance — appears to have been undaunted by roller-coaster ratings.Negotiations on changes to the French unemployment compensation system are scheduled to begin this week. Mr. Macron is in China today._____• In the Middle East, a de facto alliance against common foes is drawing Arab leaders into a collaboration with their onetime nemesis, Israel.One indication: We obtained audio recordings of an Egyptian intelligence officer coaxing talk show hosts to persuade their audiences to accept President Trump’s decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.On Sunday, Israel published a blacklist of 20 organizations, including 11 groups in Europe, whose leaders it has barred from entering the country for supporting a boycott of it.Separately, the financial ties to Israel of Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law, have deepened, fueling a perception of conflicts of interest._____• At the Golden Globe Awards, the host Seth Meyers turned directly to what he called “the elephant not in the room,” when he opened the broadcast by saying, “Good evening, ladies and remaining gentlemen.”AdvertisementOprah Winfrey, who received a lifetime achievement award, jolted the audience with her speech focused on the #MeToo movement. Actresses and some actors wore black to make a statement about sexual harassment in Hollywood.In a series of essays, our reporters debate how recent revelations have changed the entertainment industry.Here’s the full list of winners, including “In the Fade,” a tale of grief in modern Germany.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• We followed a team on a quest to bring the internet to Tusheti, a region in the Caucasus that is perhaps one of the world’s most remote places, making it more accessible to tourists.• Facebook, Google, Netflix and other large tech companies are putting their reputations and financial clout behind efforts to stop a repeal of net neutrality rules in the U.S.• The U.S. Justice Department tried, and failed, to hold a Swiss banker personally accountable for creating bank accounts for Americans trying to evade U.S. taxes. Dozens more cases are pending.• Intel’s chief executive, Brian Krzanich, is in the hot seat over Meltdown and Spectre, two chip security issues that were disclosed last week.• Here’s a snapshot of global markets and a look at what could move them this week.• Theresa May, the British prime minister, is expected to reshuffle her cabinet starting today. [The Guardian]• While Spain’s politicians bicker over Catalonia’s future, the country’s judges are showing no sign of softening their stance toward the Catalan separatists. [The New York Times]Advertisement• In the U.S., the White House asked Congress for $18 billion to build a wall on the Mexican border in exchange for protecting young undocumented immigrants from deportation. [The New York Times]• Ahmed Shafik, the strongest challenger to Egypt’s military-backed leader, withdrew from the country’s presidential race. [The New York Times]• Protests over rising bread prices broke out across Sudan. At least one person was killed. [Reuters] • In Stockholm, a man was killed by an explosive device he found outside a subway station. [Associated Press]• A senior BBC News editor accused the network of operating a “secretive and illegal” salary system that pays men more than women in similar positions. [The New York Times]• The legal troubles of Mikheil Saakashvili, the former president of Georgia who has cast himself as an antigraft leader in Ukraine, mounted with an in absentia prison sentence in Georgia. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Improve your relationship this year. (For starters, consider putting away your phone, after reading this briefing.)• Here are some tips for working better this year.• Recipe of the day: Keep dinner meatless with a chickpea and fennel ratatouille.Advertisement• Christians around the world held celebrations to mark the Epiphany, the official end to the Christmas holiday. Here are photos from Bulgaria, Greece, Mexico and elsewhere. Above, a procession in Pamplona, Spain.• In memoriam: France Gall, the French pop singer hailed as a “timeless icon of the French chanson,” died at 70; John Young, who commanded the first space shuttle mission, died at 87.• The hit musical “Hamilton” has grown in stature on the London stage, our critic writes. It “can make a traitor of any English citizen for a night.”• A new study on coral bleaching shows the phenomenon has become so frequent that reefs can no longer recover between severe cases.• A vodka bottle, said to be the world’s most expensive at $1.3 million, was stolen last week from a pub in Copenhagen. It has since been found, dented and empty.When unrest erupted in Iran this month, President Trump used Twitter to reach out directly to antigovernment protesters in dozens of towns.Such public outreach is a lot easier than it used to be.A hundred years ago today, President Woodrow Wilson, above, outlined his terms for an end to World War I in a speech meant to appeal to the war-weary people of America’s European foes.American newspapers such as The New York Times printed the 14-point speech in full, but that did not mean the average German would get the message.AdvertisementA few days later, a report in The Times documented efforts to spread the speech behind enemy lines, after Berlin threatened to execute pilots of planes distributing copies.“What is now wanted is some kind of flying craft which will travel fifty to a hundred miles or more, dropping propaganda on the way,” The Daily Chronicle, a British paper, reported.“Here is a chance for ingenious inventors to improve on the existing facilities for invading the enemy countries with moral munitions and scattering broadcast pamphlets, tracts and pictures.”_____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Wordplay By                     
 DEB AMLEN
 
JAN. 6, 2018
SUNDAY PUZZLE — UPDATE: The earlier version of the web puzzle has been fixed. If you are solving on iOS and you loaded the puzzle at 6 p.m., you can get the update by going to the Archive page, long pressing today’s date, say “Yes” when it asks if you want to update the puzzle. Updating the puzzle should allow users to put in the OU in the section. Thank you for your patience.First, let’s get the housekeeping out of the way. There are two things solvers need to know about this puzzle by David Steinberg:1. There is a notepad that says, “In the print version of this puzzle, the squares that are circled are instead each divided into two halves with a diagonal line.” That slash might be helpful for keeping the entries straight, so for ease of online solving, I am offering a simultaneous, “no Wordplay spoilers” mini-post with a blank PDF of the print version of this puzzle. You might also want to keep a pad of paper next to you to take notes.2. When the Sunday Magazine puzzle went to press (Ha ha, what fun we have!), the original clue for 114D (“Only N.F.L. team ever to go 0-16 for a season”) was correct. At least, it was correct until the Cleveland Browns lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers on New Year’s Eve, and became the second team to go 0-16. Unfortunately, it was too late to correct the original clue in the magazine, but it has been updated for all online versions.I know. It’s been a tough week, solvingwise. So, why not settle down with a nice, predictable Sunday puzzle, where absolutely nothing is a surprise and you know all the answers?Nope, not today, sorry. Think about how bored you would get if all the puzzles were the same. Sure, the comforting routine of reading a clue, thinking a bit about it and then writing the answer into the grid — no numbers, no rebuses, just letters — is what some of us crave. But what if, just for today, you got to do that twice for some of the answers? Would that make it better?If you are not a solver of our Variety puzzles, you might not be familiar with Split Decisions, a fun and very satisfying puzzle where you are given pairs of letter strings and have to figure out what the pairs of words are that share those letters. Here’s an example from 2017 to print out and solve. Give it a try; I think you’ll like it.AdvertisementIt will also help you understand what you need to do in order to solve today’s puzzle.The name of the game is Vowel Play, so you know you’re going to be — wait for it — playing with vowels. Mr. Steinberg has pulled off a true feat of construction that combines the best of Split Decisions and Schrödinger puzzles, and his grid is packed with this theme material.AdvertisementThere are two clues for each theme entry, your first hint that something is up. Your job will be to solve both clues so that the consonant squares and the (slashed or circled) vowel squares make two different words or phrases. For example, at 22A, the two clues are “Richard Simmons diet regimen / London tabloid.” The answers to those clues would be DEAL A MEAL and DAILY MAIL, which conveniently both fit, if you put the vowels for each answer in one square apiece, like so:D E/A A/I L A/Y M E/A A/I LIf you are solving in print, you can write each vowel on either side of the slash in the square. If you are solving online or in the app, you should be able to enter a variety of rebus combinations. For example, for the E/A combination at the beginning of 22A, you can enter E/A, but they will also count the square as correct if you enter E, A, EA, AE, E/A or A/E. If you have any issues with this, please write to NYTCrossword@nytimes.com and let them know.What is truly amazing about this construction is that Mr. Steinberg was able to cross the split theme entries with other entries using both vowels (like 2D’s UNE/ASY).What, your brain doesn’t hurt enough yet? My best advice is to start with what you know. JULy is the “Start of the third.” The “O.J. Simpson trial judge” was Lance ITO. The “Actor Patel” is DEV. There are many more.Keep chipping away at it, and try to focus on solving the squares that contain the consonants in the split theme entries. That will make it easier to solve the theme squares.And, for my money, the clue “Sin subject?” for TRIG was worth the price of admission alone.This puzzle has an unusual construction story: I didn’t come up with any of the theme entries! At least not directly. All I had was an idea, which came from — wait for it — a Facebook chat! It all started when my friend Trenton Charlson messaged me an awesome, hand-constructed vowelless crossword he’d been working on. He ultimately got stuck on a couple of corners, but fortunately, I was able to help: I put on my computer science major hat and taught him what I know about regular expressions. After that, he was off and rolling.This whole interchange got me thinking. What if I made a puzzle whose theme entries had the same consonants but different vowels? I couldn’t think of any long examples, but I figured there must be a way to write a program to find some, if they existed. A few hours later, I had a working program, and there were actually a lot of possibilities. In fact, there were so many that I decided to constrain the theme to entries where a) the vowels are in the same positions and b) all the vowels are different.The next challenge was figuring out how to present the puzzle. Should it be a crossword or some sort of variety puzzle? Definitely a crossword. Daily or Sunday? Go big or go home, dude! Separate or merged theme entries? Merged seemed more interesting. Schrödinger squares or rebuses? Rebuses, since I’d probably need slashed clues anyway.Moral of the story: The hours I spend on social media are OBVIOUSLY worthwhile. Hope you enjoy the puzzle.Happy Sunday, everyone.Your thoughts?We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NATHANIEL POPPERJAN. 4, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — The virtual currency boom has gotten so heated that it is throwing the list of the world’s richest people into disarray.Consider what has happened to the founders of an upstart virtual currency known as Ripple, which has seen its value skyrocket in recent weeks.At one point on Thursday, Chris Larsen, a Ripple co-founder who is also the largest holder of Ripple tokens, was worth more than $59 billion, according to figures from Forbes. That would have briefly vaulted Mr. Larsen ahead of Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg into fifth place on the Forbes list of the world’s richest people.Other top Ripple holders would have also zoomed up that list as the value of their tokens soared more than 100 percent during the last week — and more than 30,000 percent in the last year. The boom has turned Ripple into the second largest virtual currency, within striking distance of the original behemoth, Bitcoin.AdvertisementThe explosion in Ripple’s value over the past month is the starkest illustration yet of how the mania around Bitcoin  has spilled over into a broader universe of virtual currencies. These coins — with names like Cardano, Stellar, and Iota — are generally new twists on the Bitcoin technology, which uses a decentralized network of volunteer computers to keep a record, known as a blockchain, of all transactions.AdvertisementWhile most of these currencies were worth nearly nothing a year ago, many are now responsible for creating billionaires — albeit with rapidly fluctuating fortunes. If this is a tulip fever, the fever has spread to chrysanthemums and poppies.Mr. Larsen’s soaring wealth sparked a few congratulatory messages on Twitter on Thursday, even if the value of Ripple — and his Forbes ranking — dropped later in the day. But his net worth, and the ballooning value of Ripple tokens, mostly drew comments about the irrationality of the virtual currency markets, which appear to be largely driven these days by the fear of missing out, or FOMO.“This is beyond insane,” said Jeremy Gardner, an investor who previously worked at the virtual currency hedge fund Blockchain Capital, which invested in Ripple. “There’s absolutely nothing driving this rally except rampant FOMO, misinformation, and speculation.”Ripple, whose tokens are known as XRP, is far from the only virtual currency being fueled by the hysteria. In 2017, there were 29 tokens — including Einsteinium and Byteball — that rose more than Bitcoin’s remarkable 1,600 percent jump, according to OnChainFx, a data provider.Nearly 40 virtual currencies are worth more than $1 billion — when all the outstanding tokens are counted at their current value — despite many of them not having been used in any sort of transaction other than speculative trading.Against this backdrop, Ripple could be considered a staid institution, though one with a colorful history.Ripple was invented in 2012 by Jed McCaleb, a programmer who had created Mt. Gox, a Bitcoin exchange that later dissolved in disgrace. Mr. McCaleb designed Ripple as a faster and more efficient version of Bitcoin, without the mining process that Bitcoin uses to distribute new coins and secure the network.AdvertisementMr. Larsen joined Mr. McCaleb early on to create a company, also known as Ripple. The company helped develop an open source Ripple software that makes it possible to move money between digital wallets. The Ripple token is one of the currencies that can be transferred with the software.Mr. McCaleb later left Ripple in an acrimonious divorce, though he retained a sizable number of Ripple tokens. His holdings were worth around $20 billion at Thursday’s prices, putting him close to 40th on the Forbes list. (The actual list is only published once a year, and no big virtual currency holders have been officially added.)Mr. McCaleb has since created a competitor to Ripple, known as Stellar. Stellar has risen even faster than Ripple in recent weeks, with all outstanding Stellar tokens — known as Lumens — worth around $14 billion on Thursday, making it the seventh largest virtual currency.In contrast, all the outstanding Ripple tokens were worth $140 billion on Thursday, while all Bitcoin were worth $250 billion.Yet the fortunes of Mr. McCaleb and Mr. Larsen are not nearly as durable as those of other people on the Forbes list given that the value of virtual currencies fluctuates wildly. If Mr. Larsen wanted to access his wealth by selling Ripple tokens for dollars, it would likely drive down the value of Ripple tokens — and his riches.Mr. McCaleb and Mr. Larsen did not respond to questions about the recent price increases.Mr. Larsen was Ripple’s chief executive from 2012 until he stepped down last year to become the company’s executive chairman. During his tenure, Ripple focused on helping banks use its software to shift money between different foreign currencies, something that most banks currently do through a cumbersome process involving separate accounts in every country where they operate.Ripple has said it has signed up more than 100 banks to use the company’s technology, including American Express and Banco Santander.But banks do not need to use Ripple tokens for Ripple’s software to transfer dollars, euros and yen. That point appears to be lost on many small time investors who are buying Ripple tokens.AdvertisementMost of the buying and selling of Ripple tokens is happening in South Korea, according to data providers that track virtual currency exchanges, where ordinary investors have thrown money at a wide array of virtual currencies.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Several virtual currency hedge fund investors said that they have talked to banks and heard about interest in Ripple’s software, but not its tokens.“I’m not aware of banks using or planning to use the XRP token at the scale of tens of billions of dollars necessary to support XRP’s valuation,” said Ari Paul, a co-founder of the hedge fund BlockTower Capital.Ripple has so far announced that one company, a Mexican money-transfer business, is planning to use the Ripple token.Brad Garlinghouse, who took over as Ripple’s chief executive last year, said in an interview this week that other institutions are also using — or looking at using — XRP, but the company could not name them because of confidentiality agreements.Mr. Garlinghouse said he thought the rising value of Ripple tokens was justified, given the company’s growth and the size of the foreign currency markets that Ripple wants to tackle.“It’s clear that people increasingly understand that we are solving a very large problem,” he said.Ripple has attracted the ire of Bitcoin fans because Ripple has a greater degree of centralized authority in Mr. Garlinghouse’s company, even though the Ripple software is open source. Bitcoin and other virtual currencies were designed to operate without companies or governments in charge.AdvertisementBut the company Ripple, if not the XRP token, has won a following among top figures in government and finance who are interested in bringing the ideas introduced by Bitcoin into the traditional financial system. The company’s board includes the former top financial regulator in New York state, Benjamin M. Lawsky, and Gene Sperling, who was the director of the National Economic Council under Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton.Still, even virtual currency analysts who believe in Ripple’s software have said there is a big difference between Ripple the company being successful, and Ripple the token gaining enough traction to justify current prices.“An impossibly long list of things already needs to go right for XRP to become a reserve currency for banks,” Ryan Selkis, a virtual currency analyst, wrote in a post on Thursday.But, Mr. Selkis added, that doesn’t mean Ripple’s price won’t keep ascending. Why? “Because this is crypto, and everyone in the industry is now slinging crack crypto cocaine to retail addicts,” he wrote.Follow Nathaniel Popper on Twitter: @nathanielpopperA version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Bitcoin Rival Mints Wealth To Match Even Zuckerberg.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Aatish TaseerNEW DELHI — I grew up with an aversion to India’s first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru.He was the towering figure of the postcolonial world. Harrow- and Cambridge-educated, he was one of the architects of the Non-Aligned Movement, which sought a third way through the odious binaries of the Cold War. In India, he dominated the political landscape and is credited with laying the foundation for our country’s democracy.The cult of Nehru continued through his heirs. His daughter, Indira Gandhi, and grandson, Rajiv Gandhi (no relation to Mahatma Gandhi), both went on to be prime minister. Nehru died in 1964, and by the time I was growing up, some two decades later, the brand of socialism he had championed was failing. The impression that came down to me of this father of Indian democracy was of a fey creature, embarrassingly Anglicized, making grandiloquent speeches in an Oxbridge accent about light and freedom and “trysts with destiny.”By then, India was changing. The economic reforms of the 1990s had empowered a new class of Indian, less colonized, more culturally intact. We entered an age when authenticity was prized above all else, and Nehru, by his own admission, was not authentic, not culturally whole. He was a hybrid, forged on the line between India and Britain, East and West. The reputation of Mahatma Gandhi, though he was no less a hybrid, survived the change. Nehru’s did not.Nehru today is a figure of revulsion on the Hindu right, which governs India. The era of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party is in every respect a repudiation of Nehru. Mr. Modi represents authenticity and Indianness; Nehru is the quintessential foreigner in his own land.Every year, around Nehru’s birthday on Nov. 14, a battle rages in which the bedraggled remains of India’s left try to defend the first prime minister, even as an increasingly louder chorus of voices on the right portray him as having been soft on Muslims and having betrayed the interests of the Hindu majority.His ease with Western mores and society is a liability, for it implies an apparent contempt for Hindu culture and religion. Nehru comes to seem almost like a symbol of a country looking at itself through foreign eyes, and in a newly assertive India, his legacy is being dismantled. In at least one B.J.P.-controlled state he is being completely written out of textbooks; he is maligned daily on social media, with hashtags like #knowyournehru.Which brings me to an embarrassing confession: Nehru is one of those people I thought I knew without ever feeling the need to read. He was among the great literary statesmen, and his output was prodigious: letters, speeches, famous books like “The Discovery of India” and “Glimpses of World History.” And there is his autobiography, “Toward Freedom,” in which he truly comes alive.I have at last been reading Nehru, now at this hour when his stock is at an all-time low. And I have yet another embarrassing confession to make: He’s wonderful. It is not just a question of the peerless prose — the American journalist John Gunther was quite right to say that “hardly a dozen men alive write English as well as Nehru.” Nor is it simply that he is a man of astonishing reading, intellect and sensitivity. What makes Nehru so compelling is his acute self-knowledge. There is practically nothing you can say against him that he is not prepared to say himself.Consider him on the subject of his own deracination. In “Toward Freedom,” he writes: “I have become a queer mixture of the East and the West, out of place everywhere, at home nowhere. Perhaps my thoughts and approach to life are more akin to what is called Western than Eastern, but India clings to me, as she does to all her children, in innumerable ways.” He continues: “I am a stranger and alien in the West. I cannot be of it. But in my own country also, sometimes I have an exile’s feeling.”Nehru, unlike Mr. Modi — who is decidedly not a reader and who has an almost childish regard for the Indian past — can look hard at himself and his country. “A country under foreign domination seeks escape from the present in dreams of a vanished age, and finds consolation in visions of past greatness,” he writes in “The Discovery of India.”Nehru is never more prescient, seeming truly to speak across the decades, than when he addresses the nationalism that will one day endanger his vision of India. “Nationalism,” he writes in “Toward Freedom,” “is essentially an anti-feeling, and it feeds and fattens on hatred against other national groups, and especially against the foreign rulers of a subject country.”I was stunned, reading these lines at a moment when Mr. Modi’s Hindu Renaissance has proved to be precisely the “anti-feeling” Nehru described: a culture war against two enemies, Westernized Indians and the country’s approximately 170 million Muslims.If Mr. Modi stands for authenticity, Nehru forces us to question the premium we place on it. He forces us to ask ourselves if purity is even desirable, and whether India’s true genius does not lie in its ability to throw up dazzling hybrids, like Nehru, who seem, in intellect and sophistication, vision and worldliness, to be every bit Mr. Modi’s superior.Mr. Modi has certainly ushered in an age when the “Indian soul” — like the German and Russian soul before it — is finding utterance. But what is it saying? Last month, in Rajasthan, a state whose government is run by the B.J.P., we were given yet another sampling of what Mr. Modi’s brand of authenticity looks like: a Hindu man axed to death a Muslim man, then set the body alight, while asking his nephew to film the murder.The killer posted the video on Facebook. He wanted to send a message that the “Love Jihad” — a baseless B.J.P.-promulgated conspiracy theory in which Muslim men lure unsuspecting Hindu women into marriage and conversion — would not be tolerated. The response of the B.J.P. leadership was, as it usually is after such killings, strategic silence.Rajasthan, in recent months, has become a byword for this kind of religious murder. It also happens to be one of those states where last year Nehru was erased from school textbooks. Otherwise the eighth graders there might have grown up with these words of his, which the historian Ram Guha quoted last month in an essay for The Hindustan Times: “If any person raises his hand to strike down another on the ground of religion,” Nehru said on Gandhi’s birthday in 1952, “I shall fight him till the last breath of my life, both at the head of government and from outside.”Time may have trifled with Nehru. But time will also reveal him to be the giant that he was.Aatish Taseer (@aatishtaseer) is a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of the novel “The Way Things Were.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy TRIP GABRIELJAN. 4, 2018
An official of the Virginia State Board of Elections pulled the name of David Yancey from a blue and white stoneware bowl on Thursday, breaking a tied race that is pivotal to control of the state House of Delegates.The outcome in favor of Mr. Yancey, the Republican incumbent, means that the House remains narrowly in his party’s hands, 51 seats to 49, after a Democratic wave in November propelled by anger at President Trump. Going into the election, the Republicans had a 32-seat advantage.The random drawing, a species of political unicorn that attracted attention well beyond Virginia, was conducted in the Patrick Henry Building near the State Capitol in Richmond shortly after 11 a.m. Each candidate’s name was written on strips of paper, inserted into film canisters and mixed together in the handmade bowl, made by the potter-in-residence at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Steven Glass.Despite the high ceremony, the drawing may not bring finality to a race that has already been fiercely fought through a recount and in court skirmishes. By state law, the loser in the drawing may request a second recount.AdvertisementThe Democratic challenger, Shelly Simonds, a school board member in Newport News, said after the drawing that “all options are still on the table.’’ But she also sounded resigned. “You know it was a long hard election season, and it does seem like a sad end to the story to have to end on a game of chance,’’ she told reporters.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Yancey did not attend the drawing, which was thronged with news cameras and live-streamed on Facebook, but he called on his opponent afterward to move on. “The election is behind us, the outcome is clear, and my responsibility now is to begin the work I was re-elected to do,’’ Mr. Yancey said in a statement. On Twitter, he thanked “all of the kids I have coached in high school rugby who have inspired me to keep fighting.’’AdvertisementMs. Simonds had proposed to Mr. Yancey on Wednesday that each should pledge to forgo a second recount if they lost the drawing. Mr. Yancey rejected the offer.Republican leaders in the House called on the Democrat to give up the fight, despite her right to ask for a second recount.“This was a historic election, but now it’s time to begin the work of governing,’’ said the House Majority Leader, Todd Gilbert.For one day last month, when the initial recount gave Ms. Simonds a one-vote lead in the race, Democrats celebrated the end of 17 years of Republican majorities in the House. Republicans even said in a statement that with control evenly divided, they looked forward to a power-sharing arrangement.But a three-judge recount court, reviewing the count the next day, added an additional ballot for Mr. Yancey. That tied the race at 11,607 apiece, and created the need for the random drawing called for under Virginia law. Ms. Simonds asked the court to reconsider its decision on the single ballot, but the court rejected the request earlier this week.If Ms. Simonds requests a second recount, it probably would not be complete by Jan. 10, when the House of Delegates is scheduled to reconvene. Republicans said on Thursday that in the past, members have not been seated when a recount of their race was in progress. But even without Mr. Yancey, they would still have one more vote than the Democrats.Advertisement“We’ve been clear that we intend to organize the House on the first day of session,’’ said Kirk Cox, a Republican who is expected to be chosen as speaker.Control of the speakership on opening day brings with it a bag of political goodies, including control over committee assignments and House rules, which will determine which bills make it to the floor, amplifying Republican influence over a chamber that is nearly equally divided.Virginia Democrats had hoped that under Ralph Northam, the governor-elect and a Democrat, thwarted liberal priorities would break through a logjam of Republican control of both houses of the General Assembly. Expanding Medicaid in the state was high on that list.Democrats have angrily pointed to the gerrymandered House of Delegates map, saying that it unfairly prevented them from gaining control, even though their candidates received 10 percentage points more votes statewide than their Republican rivals.The drawing was held with the three members of the State Elections Board seated at a long table. Noting that they usually attracted only one or two journalists to their meetings, the members sounded and acted a bit nervous.The Virginia House of Delegates race was so close that the winner was determined by picking a name out of a ceramic bowl. The winner: David Yancey, a Republican.James B. Alcorn, the chairman and a Democrat, said there was “a fair amount of interest in which bowl we would use.’’ For the drawings the board routinely conducts to decide the order in which candidates are listed on ballots, he said, “we have been using a glass bowl for many years, and more recently a cardboard box.’’ For this occasion, though, he said he asked the fine arts museum for something special.Strips of paper with the candidates’ names were rolled and inserted into old film canisters and placed in the bowl. The vice-chairwoman, Clara Belle Wheeler, a Republican, then gave the bowl a stir, and Mr. Alcorn plucked the winner. It was the first time since 1971 that Virginia broke a tied legislative race by random drawing.Ms. Wheeler gave a long statement about the importance of ensuring that elections are trustworthy. For this reason, she said, in the 2017 election Virginia exclusively used paper ballots, which can be inspected in the event of a recount.Advertisement“Voting is a very serious thing,’’ Ms. Wheeler said.The drawing happened the day after Mr. Trump dismissed his voter fraud commission, which he had set up after claiming without evidence that millions of illegal votes were cast in the presidential election of 2016. The commission was dissolved before issuing a report.At the end of her statement, Ms. Wheeler indirectly addressed the unknown voter in House District 94 whose disputed ballot had tied the race. The voter had blackened in bubbles for both Mr. Yancey and Ms. Simonds, which would ordinarily cause the ballot not to be counted. But the voter had also drawn a slash through the Simonds bubble, and the recount court ruled that the ballot should be counted as a vote for Mr. Yancey.“Sometimes you make a mistake,’’ Ms. Wheeler said. “All you have to do is give your ballot to the election official in the room,” and get a fresh one to try again, she said.A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Slip of Paper Keeps Virginia’s House of Delegates in Republican Hands.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHOE SANG-HUNJAN. 4, 2018
SEOUL, South Korea — On both sides of the divided Korean Peninsula, the timing seems right.The New Year’s Day proposal by North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, for direct talks with South Korea came as sanctions appear to be biting, with reports of shortages in the North and new pressure by Washington to intercept ships engaged in fuel smuggling.The initiative was quickly embraced by South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, who sees his first concrete chance to carry out his campaign agenda of engaging with the North, while also easing tensions as Mr. Trump’s warlike threats have rattled his country.In a telephone message delivered through the restored cross-border hotline on Friday, North Korea accepted the South’s proposal that the two sides begin talks on Tuesday, South Korean officials said. The talks, to be held in the border village Panmunjom, will be the first high-level inter-Korean dialogue in two years.But if this is a potential opening for a thaw, it is a small one. Skepticism abounds not only in Washington but also among South Koreans.AdvertisementMany in the country are mindful of how the so-called sunshine policy of two previous progressive leaders, Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun, failed to curb North Korea’s nuclear ambitions, and remain wary of its revival. As Mr. Moon learned from his predecessors’ experiences, any South Korean leader accused of risking the alliance with Washington in trying to improve ties with the North could become a lightning rod of conservative ire.Advertisement“If there are still those who think they can solve the North Korean nuclear problem and problems between the South and the North through dialogue, they must be crazy,” said Yoo Dong-ryul, a director of the right wing Korea Institute of Liberal Democracy, based in Seoul.While most South Koreans today favor dialogue and peaceful accommodation with North Korea, many also fear that hastily engaging and granting the North economic concessions would throw a lifeline to Mr. Kim just as sanctions are squeezing his government.In his New Year’s Day speech, Mr. Kim offered to send an Olympic delegation to the Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, next month. But he also boasted that his country was now a nuclear power capable of thwarting a United States-led war on the peninsula, and he urged the South to abandon Washington’s campaign for sanctions and to work with “fellow countrymen” for peace — an opening Mr. Moon seized on.“The Pyeongchang Olympics and the Paralympics there will become a clarion of peace on the Korean Peninsula,” Mr. Moon said on Wednesday, the day Mr. Kim also restored the telephone hotline that could facilitate such negotiations. “We must move through the crisis and toward peace like an icebreaker.”South Koreans have grown increasingly nervous over the past year about Mr. Kim’s nuclear brinkmanship. But they have also begun questioning the implications of their alliance with a Washington led by an often unpredictable Mr. Trump, who has threatened to “totally destroy” North Korea and this week talked of his power to wage nuclear war against Mr. Kim.Mr. Moon insists that dialogue has become more urgent than ever because the South would bear the brunt of any war on the peninsula. South Korean officials privately say that the next several months may be the only opportunity to use negotiations to halt the North’s nuclear weapons program before it acquires a functional intercontinental ballistic missile.While many South Koreans support a peaceful resolution to the tensions, many also question Mr. Moon’s approach — and Mr. Kim’s sincerity.AdvertisementAnalysts say Mr. Kim’s strategy is to make his nuclear weapons a fait accompli, while seeking a way to weaken the choking sanctions.“In 2018, North Korea will likely launch an aggressive dialogue and peace offense and use the improvement of ties with the South to head off the sanctions and pressure,” the South’s government-run Korea Institute for National Unification said in an analysis of Mr. Kim’s New Year’s speech. “It is using the Pyeongchang Olympics to start to implement its approach.”In his New Year’s speech, Mr. Kim acknowledged that his country faced “the harshest-ever challenges” because of the sanctions. And the Olympics offered an opening.“Kim Jong-un knew that South Korea was desperate for the North to join the Pyeongchang Olympics and resume inter-Korean dialogue,” Chun Yung-woo, a former South Korean nuclear negotiator, said in a Facebook post. “Recognizing the South’s weakness, he is using it to try to undermine the South’s alliance with Washington, drawing it away from the United States and using it as a shield against possible American military action.”On Thursday, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that his tough approach was working, saying that it brought North Korea to the negotiating table and that talks “are a good thing.”
            With all of the failed “experts” weighing in, does anybody really believe that talks and dialogue would be going on between North and South Korea right now if I wasn’t firm, strong and willing to commit our total “might” against the North. Fools, but talks are a good thing!        Also on Thursday, Mr. Moon talked with Mr. Trump and said that he promised to consult fully with Washington during South Korea’s talks with the North, adding that they would help induce dialogue between the North and Washington, the South Korean president’s office said.According to the statement from Mr. Moon’s office, Mr. Trump said the United States supported Mr. Moon “100 percent.” Mr. Trump also accepted Mr. Moon’s proposal that the allies postpone their joint annual military exercises during the Olympics, the statement said.Defense Secretary Jim Mattis played down the significance of the decision to delay the joint military exercises, saying that it was simply a matter of logistical timing and not necessarily a sign of a lessening of tensions.Advertisement“I would say for us it’s a practical matter,” Mr. Mattis told reporters on Thursday during an impromptu press briefing at the Pentagon. He said the military exercises would be held sometime after the conclusion of the Paralympics, which end March 18.Mr. Mattis also said it was too soon to know whether the North’s recent diplomatic overture to South Korea would bring about broader talks. “I wouldn’t read too much into it, because we don’t know if it’s a genuine olive branch,” he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Analysts say the North views its participation in the Olympic Games as a favor to Mr. Moon, and would most likely demand major concessions from Seoul.Signaling his demands, Mr. Kim urged South Korea to stop annual joint military exercises with the United States. North Korea is also likely to demand that the South reopen a joint factory park in the North Korean town of Kaesong that the South shut down in 2016. It could also insist that South Korea lift a trade embargo it imposed in 2010 while accusing the North of torpedoing a South Korean Navy ship.Lifting such sanctions without clear North Korean movement toward denuclearization would open a crack in the American-led international campaign to pressure the North and cause a fissure in the alliance between Seoul and Washington. It would also prove unpopular in South Korea, especially among its older and conservative population, whose emotions over the ship’s sinking remain raw. The South is set to hold elections for mayors and governors in June.North Korea has already signaled that tough negotiations loom.Ri Son-kwon, who announced Mr. Kim’s decision to restore the cross-border hotline, was one of the hard-liners who South Korean officials said were behind the torpedo attack in 2010. Since Mr. Kim took power, most of the North Korean negotiators who worked with the South during its sunshine-policy period have died or been purged or executed by Mr. Kim, including his uncle, Jang Song-thaek.North and South Korea have reopened a border hotline after nearly two years of radio silence.Mr. Moon has expressed a willingness to accommodate the North, particularly with his proposal to postpone the joint American-South Korean military exercises until after the Olympics in February and the Paralympics in March. But the North wants a longer-term halt.“Once the joint exercises resume in April, the South-North relations will chill again,” said Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at the Sejong Institute in South Korea. “There are reasons to believe that things will get much worse in the second half of the year.”And South Koreans are mindful of Mr. Kim’s past behavior. In his New Year’s speech in 2016, Mr. Kim said he was willing to improve ties with the South. Several days later, the North conducted its fourth nuclear test. This year, Mr. Kim threatened to mass-produce nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles. He also called for an ability to launch an “immediate nuclear counterattack.”If North Korea conducts more weapons tests, Mr. Cheong said, whatever thaw would be created by the North’s Olympic participation would prove to be only “temporary.”Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: South Koreans Both Receptive and Wary on Easing Tensions With North.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRIS STANFORDJAN. 5, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Don’t let Jeff Sessions recuse himself. That was President Trump’s instruction to the top White House lawyer in March, shortly before the attorney general removed himself from the investigation, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.The unsuccessful lobbying effort was one of several previously unreported episodes that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has learned about. Central to his inquiry is whether the president obstructed justice and whether there was collusion between his campaign and Russia.• Ty Cobb, the White House lawyer dealing with the special counsel’s investigation, declined to comment.• Stephen Bannon has lost the support of some of his most important backers — including the family of the hedge fund magnate Robert Mercer — after Mr. Bannon made provocative comments about President Trump and his family to the author of a new book.AdvertisementMr. Trump’s legal threats to block the work prompted its publisher to move up its release date to today.Advertisement• We also profile Michael Wolff, the author of the book and “a prime piranha in the Manhattan media pond.”• There will be subzero wind chills in the Northeast in the next couple of days after a storm with hurricane-strength winds socked the region. In New York City, it could feel like minus 20 degrees tonight and Saturday night. (The forecast for the summit of Mount Washington in New Hampshire is minus 95.)More than 4,000 flights were grounded on Thursday, and hundreds have been canceled today.• What was it like in New York?  Watch our video.Here’s what New York City looked liked on Instagram as a powerful storm brought bitter cold and strong winds to the region.• The Trump administration has freed prosecutors to aggressively enforce federal laws against the drug in states that have decriminalized it. The reaction in California, where recreational cannabis became legal on Monday, was not mellow.The move highlights confusion over the legality of marijuana where state and federal law conflict. Have a question? Ask us.• In Congress, lawmakers from both parties who view the issue as a state decision oppose the Justice Department’s new policy.• More than 200,000 people seek addiction treatment on the phone or online every month. Their pleas for help are a valuable commodity, Dr. Alan Goodwin, a psychologist in Palm Beach, Fla., recently discovered.AdvertisementOur story retraces his monthslong mission to understand the ethically murky business of customer acquisition in the treatment world.• It’s the final part of our series on the industry of addiction treatment.• The high-level negotiations between North and South Korea will be the first in more than two years. They will be held in the border village of Panmunjom.A closer look at the largest protests in Iran in years suggests that the country’s president may have started it all.• The Trump administration plans to allow new offshore oil and gas drilling in nearly all U.S. coastal waters.• The U.S. economy added 148,000 jobs last month, and the unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent, the Labor Department reported today.•  Iranian hackers have moved from defacing websites to cyberespionage campaigns. They still feel they’re underpaid.• U.S. stocks were up on Thursday, and the Dow broke 25,000 for the first time. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Follow these New Year’s resolutions for better health.• With two security flaws affecting almost all computers, here’s what you can do to protect yourself.Advertisement• Bake the ultimate make-ahead treat: cinnamon rolls.• Partisan writing you shouldn’t miss.Writers from across the political spectrum discuss the clash between President Trump and his former chief strategist, Stephen Bannon.• Republican wins in Virginia.The House of Delegates remains under Republican control after a slip of paper was drawn from a bowl to determine the winner of a tied race.• In memoriamBrendan Byrne, the governor of New Jersey from 1974 to 1982, won passage of the state’s first income tax and helped lure professional sports teams to the Meadowlands. He also helped bring casinos to Atlantic City. He was 93.• New admissions policy at the MetCiting financial necessity, the Metropolitan Museum of Art will soon charge $25 to out-of-state visitors.Our chief art critics aren’t fans of the change.• Ready for the weekendThe Golden Globe Awards are Sunday. We spoke to the comedian Seth Meyers, a first-time host, about Hollywood’s first major awards show since a wave of sexual misconduct scandals.The Times has started a book club with “PBS NewsHour.” To discuss “Sing, Unburied, Sing,” by Jesmyn Ward, please join our Facebook group.We also have nine other books to recommend, and 10 TV shows we’re looking forward to this month.And the N.F.L. playoffs begin this weekend. Here are our predictions for the wild-card games.• Best of late-night TVThe hottest topic on comedy television was a book: “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House.”Advertisement• Quotation of the day“A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly.”— James Stack, a market historian, who says the bull market in stocks will eventually end.Construction of the Golden Gate Bridge began on this day in 1933, more than 60 years after it was first proposed. Calls for a major thoroughfare connecting San Francisco to Marin County, to the north, began after the city’s population increased tenfold during the Gold Rush.Before the bridge was painted in its iconic “international orange,” architects considered a U.S. Navy proposal for a striped design to make the structure more visible to ships and airplanes.The distinct reddish-orange hue was chosen to complement the bridge’s natural surroundings: the hills, the fog and the San Francisco Bay.The city hired the engineer Joseph Strauss to build the 1.7-mile-long bridge, the longest and tallest of its kind at the time.The bridge opened four years later to great fanfare. The Times called it “one of the greatest engineering structures of man,” and Mr. Strauss penned a poem, “The Mighty Task Is Done,” for the occasion.“The bridge is a triumphant structure, a testimony to the creativity of mankind,” the historian Kevin Starr wrote in 2010, offering “enduring proof that human beings can alter the planet with reverence.”Inyoung Kang contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.AdvertisementWhat would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Sunday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NATHANIEL POPPER, OLEG MATSNEV and ANA VANESSA HERREROJAN. 3, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Russian and Venezuelan officials are hoping virtual currencies can help their countries make an end run around American sanctions.Both governments, with ambitions to create state-sponsored cryptocurrencies, are looking to take advantage of the promise that Bitcoin introduced to the world financial system: a new kind of money and financial infrastructure, outside the control of any central authority, particularly the United States.The Russian and Venezuelan plans may sound outlandish, even in the financial Wild West of Bitcoin and its online competitors. But they underscore how the rise of virtual currencies is pushing governments around the world to rethink the most basic elements of their own currencies and financial infrastructure.What has seemed like a fringe concept is starting to gain some level of acceptance in global finance. Several of the largest central banks in the world, including the Bank of England and the People’s Bank of China, have said they are looking at using the technology introduced by Bitcoin to track and issue their own digital currencies.AdvertisementIn Venezuela, the idea has come from the top. President Nicolás Maduro laid out a plan last month to create a homegrown digital currency known as the Petro, which would be similar to Bitcoin but backed by the government’s oil and natural resources.AdvertisementIn Russia, officials under President Vladimir V. Putin have floated the idea of a Bitcoin-like crypto ruble.“When it comes to state-sensitive types of activities, this instrument suits us very well,” one of Mr. Putin’s aides, Sergei Glazyev, said last month in a conversation about the crypto ruble, according to several Russian news outlets. “We can settle payments with our business partners all over the world regardless of sanctions.”Economists and virtual currency experts have given Venezuela’s Petro and the crypto ruble from Russia low probabilities of working in the way the governments seem to anticipate. That’s because Bitcoin and other virtual currencies are decentralized systems with no one in charge, while the Russian and Venezuelan plans would give the leaders of both countries a measure of control over the new currencies.That runs counter to some of the most basic concepts of virtual currency.All Bitcoin transactions are recorded on a ledger known as the blockchain, which is maintained by many independent computers. The system was designed that way explicitly to avoid central banks and large financial institutions. Just as email allowed messages to move around without going through a central postal service, the computer network maintaining Bitcoin records allows money to move around without going through any central authority.That would provide a good way to get around sanctions, which are usually enforced through regulatory and banking disclosure rules.But some central bankers have said that issuing their own currencies on some sort of blockchain could make it easier for citizens to use the money without going through intermediaries like banks and credit card companies. It could also make the records more resistant to tampering and hacking.In a speech last year, a member of the German central bank’s executive board, Carl-Ludwig Thiele, said the bank’s “conceptual study shows that blockchain technology can be adapted to meet the current needs and requirements of the financial system.”“The prototype works,” he added.These projects, though, have been slow to move from prototype to working systems, and many officials and programmers have pointed to many technical hurdles that still need to be overcome.AdvertisementNone of that has stopped Venezuela from moving forward quickly with its effort to create a digital asset that the government can control.Mr. Maduro introduced the idea on Dec. 3 in his regular Sunday television program. He said he had been monitoring so-called cryptocurrencies and had put in place plans to create the Petro, which would be backed by the country’s gold, oil, gas and diamond reserves.“To overcome the financial blockade, this will allow us to move toward new forms of international financing,” he said.Since then, the government has created an office of the cryptocurrency superintendent and appointed officials to run the operation.The Petros are set to live on a blockchain like the one Bitcoin uses, but will derive their value from the government’s natural resources.The link between Petros and natural resources could be similar to the backing that gold provided for most international currencies a century ago. The backing might counteract the sort of hyperinflation that the real Venezuelan currency, the bolívar, has experienced in recent years because of the government’s unbridled expansion of the money supply.The boldness of the Petro plan is in proportion to Venezuela’s desperate economic condition, which has officials looking for anything that could help.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The country is in a social crisis,” said José Ángel Álvarez, the head of a national association, Asonacrip, that has been working with the government on the Petro. “How do we manage to build trust? Open technology, clear rules that meet the attributes of the cryptocoin: decentralization, for example.”AdvertisementMr. Álvarez said he anticipated that the first oil will be sold for Petros in the first half of 2018.But the link between the currency and the government’s oil holdings is likely to make it unattractive to investors, given the lack of confidence that investors have shown in Mr. Maduros’s government.There is a measure of irony in the government’s interest in cryptocurrencies. Over the last few years, Venezuelans have shown a growing interest in virtual currencies as a means of escaping Mr. Maduro’s government.An online marketplace known as LocalBitcoins has connected Venezuelans looking to buy Bitcoin and get their money out of the bolívar, which has steadily lost value because of hyperinflation. This year, the number of transactions in Venezuela on LocalBitcoins has risen tenfold, according to Chainalysis, a data analysis firm.The Venezuelan government has not been nearly as welcoming of this type of virtual currency activity.Randy Brito, the founder of the Facebook group Bitcoin Venezuela, said that in December he identified between 10 and 20 cases where people in Venezuela appeared to have been arrested for their Bitcoin activities — more than double the cases he had seen in the year up until now.In most cases, buying any sort of foreign currency is illegal in Venezuela. That prevents residents from sending all of their money out of the country.Mr. Brito, who left Venezuela in 2004 and now lives in Spain, said everyone in his group was aware of how the government was punishing its citizens for doing the same thing that the government was trying to do within the broader financial system.Advertisement“The irony is in front of us,” he said. “They have been blockaded by the U.S., just like they blockade their own people from operating.”The Russian government has also not looked kindly upon its citizens’ use of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies. While the government’s policies have remained opaque, officials with the Russian Central Bank have talked about blocking the access of people inside the country to virtual currency websites, and Mr. Putin has pointed out the many potential illegal uses of the technology.“First and foremost, this is an opportunity for laundering illegal gains, tax evasion and even financing of terrorism, not to mention the proliferation of scams to which ordinary people can fall victim,” he said in October.But Mr. Putin has indicated that he is open to potential uses of the technology that would be under his control. In June, he had a much publicized conversation with Vitalik Buterin, the creator of one of the largest virtual currency networks, Ethereum. Mr. Buterin was raised in Canada and has dual Russian and Canadian citizenship.A number of officials with the central bank and the Ministry of Communication have dropped hints about the creation of some sort of crypto ruble.The efforts in Russia are much less urgent than those in Venezuela because the Russian economy is doing much better. But leaders there have been looking widely for any way to push back against American sanctions.The Russian minister of communications, Nikolai Nikiforov, said in October that a crypto ruble would be designed quite differently from Bitcoin, with no need for the mining process through which Bitcoins are released into the world.Such a currency would make it easier for the government to track and tax transactions, which is an advantage that other countries have spoken about as well.The authorities in the United States have long been aware that virtual currencies might be used to evade sanctions. David S. Cohen, a Treasury official focused on terrorism and financial intelligence, said in 2014 that the American authorities were not seeing any widespread efforts to get around sanctions with virtual currencies.AdvertisementBut, he said at the time, “these are adaptable actors who are drawn to ungoverned spaces and so may increasingly look to this technology as an attractive way to transfer value.”Nathaniel Popper reported from San Francisco, Oleg Matsnev from Moscow, and Ana Vanessa Herrero from Caracas, Venezuela.Follow Nathaniel Popper on Twitter: @nathanielpopper.A version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: To Evade Sting of U.S. Sanctions, Nations Ponder Digital Currency.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 5, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Lawyers for President Trump demanded that the author Michael Wolff and his publisher halt the release of “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House” and apologize, or face a possible lawsuit. The book includes derogatory remarks by Stephen Bannon, and others, about Mr. Trump and his family.Critics of Mr. Wolff have previously raised questions about his reporting, but Mr. Bannon, a former presidential adviser, has so far not disputed his comments in the book. Sidelined by key allies, Mr. Bannon is now confronting the possibility of an unexpected fate: irrelevance.Separately, our reporters have uncovered new information about Mr. Trump’s effort to hinder the special counsel’s investigation on Russia. Some legal analysts believe the president’s efforts could be seen as an obstruction of justice._____• The Trump administration said it would allow new offshore oil and gas drilling in nearly all U.S. coastal waters. A number of states are expected to challenge the plan to protect their coastlines.AdvertisementSeparately, the Justice Department is strengthening enforcement of federal marijuana laws, potentially undermining legalization in six states, most recently California.AdvertisementAnd abroad, the administration is suspending nearly all security aid to Pakistan, in frustration over the country’s failure to confront terrorist networks within its borders._____• In Turkey,  Meral Aksener, above, has stepped up to challenge President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s increasingly authoritarian rule.Ms. Aksener is already campaigning for early presidential elections, which she expects in July. Education and the economy are the key issues for voters, she told our Istanbul bureau chief.Meanwhile, the conviction in the U.S. of a Turkish banker left Mr. Erdogan largely unscathed at home. Analysts said Mr. Erdogan’s government had successfully framed the case as a plot by his enemies.Mr. Erdogan is visiting France today as part of an effort to mend strained European ties._____• CES, the giant tech trade show that starts on Sunday, will provide a window into emerging tech trends.The focus is on artificial intelligence — the culmination of software, algorithms and sensors working together to make everyday appliances smarter and more automated._____•  Asel, above, was Vienna’s “New Year’s Baby,” the first child to be born in 2018 in the Austrian capital.AdvertisementInstead of good wishes, the little girl and her Muslim family were greeted with a wave of racist messages online.Those messages, however, were countered by an outpouring of support and love on social media. “It can be helpful to change the direction of the conversation online,” one observer suggested.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• In Norway, electric and hybrid cars outsold conventional models last year, cementing the country’s position as a global leader in the move toward newer, cleaner-running vehicles.• Insurers are set to pay a record $135 billion to cover losses from natural disasters last year, said Munich Re of Germany, the world’s largest reinsurer. It could get worse.• In the U.S., the fastest-growing jobs are mostly done by women. But one growing field — nursing — has been attracting more men.• A virtual currency entrepreneur you have probably never heard of was briefly the world’s fifth-richest person, bypassing Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• While a “bomb cyclone” paralyzed much of the U.S. East Coast, a powerful winter storm battered much of Europe. Above, a damaged harbor wall in Cornwall, England. [Agence France-Presse]• Israel is offering a stark choice to tens of thousands of African migrants: agree to be paid to leave or face possible incarceration. [The New York Times]Advertisement• In South Africa, a passenger train burst into flames after striking two vehicles at a crossing, killing at least 18 people and injuring more than 260. [The New York Times]• Theresa May, the British prime minister, apologized for delays in the health care system a day after denying that it was facing a crisis. [The New York Times]• After Hurricane Maria, a mental health crisis is emerging in Puerto Rico. In a mini-documentary, our correspondent visited an increasingly busy suicide hotline. [The New York Times]• A divided U.N. Security Council could debate protests in Iran in an emergency meeting today. [Associated Press]• Serena Williams’s withdrawal from the Australian Open has left the tournament increasingly bereft of tennis stars. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• This weekend, bake the ultimate make-ahead treat: cinnamon rolls. And here are five more things that will help you stay toasty while it’s cold outside.• Our experts compiled a guide to the newly discovered security flaws affecting virtually all computers.• Follow these New Year’s resolutions for better health.• Kazakh cowboys, while proud of providing their rapidly modernizing nation with a link to its nomadic past, rarely want their children to follow them onto the frigid steppes.Advertisement• In Berlin and Munich, theater companies explore themes of exile and return in classics and new work, each directly addressing the refugee influx of recent years.• In memoriam: Aharon Appelfeld, the acclaimed Israeli novelist who wrote stories of self-deluded Jews slowly awakening to the reality of the Holocaust, died at 85.• Seth Meyers, who will host the Golden Globe Awards for the first time on Sunday, has a tough task: celebrating the television industry while referencing its sexual harassment crisis.• Our soccer correspondent ponders whether FC Barcelona can afford to break the bank for Liverpool’s Philippe Coutinho.• Think you know what a pecorino cheese should taste like? If you’ve never tried the Tuscan version, chances are you don’t.Construction of the Golden Gate Bridge began on this day in 1933, more than 60 years after it was first proposed. Calls for a major thoroughfare connecting San Francisco to Marin County, to the north, began after the city’s population increased tenfold during the Gold Rush.Before the bridge was painted its iconic international orange, architects also considered a proposal from the U.S. Navy for a striped design that would make the structure more visible to ships and airplanes.The distinct reddish-orange hue was chosen to complement the bridge’s natural surroundings: the hills, the fog and the San Francisco Bay.AdvertisementThe city hired the engineer Joseph Strauss to build the 1.7-mile-long bridge, the longest and tallest of its kind at the time.The bridge opened four years later to great fanfare. The Times called it “one of the greatest engineering structures of man,” and Mr. Strauss penned a poem, “The Mighty Task Is Done,” for the occasion.“The bridge is a triumphant structure, a testimony to the creativity of mankind,” the historian Kevin Starr wrote in 2010, offering “enduring proof that human beings can alter the planet with reverence.”Inyoung Kang contributed reporting._____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SHEERA FRENKELJAN. 4, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Between breaking into the email accounts of United States government officials, political dissidents and international human rights organizations, Iranian hackers liked to joke about their slow internet service, poor pay and lack of skilled colleagues.In conversations obtained by security researchers, the hackers groused like any other start-up employees, often frustrated by their lack of progress and inability to carry out more grandiose schemes.But the work being discussed had global ramifications, and painted a picture of how Iranian hackers have matured over the last decade from defacing websites with crude photos and slogans. Now, they appear to be an organized work force, starting systematic cyberespionage campaigns aimed at promoting Iran’s interests around the world and on curbing dissent within the Islamic Republic.In a report published on Thursday by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Collin Anderson, an independent cybersecurity researcher, and Karim Sadjadpour, a Carnegie senior fellow, followed nearly a decade of the day-to-day activities of Iranian hackers.AdvertisementTheir report on Iran’s improving capabilities arrives as anti-government protests in the country enter their second week, prompting the regime to shut down access to the internet under the claim that it is being used to spread “violence and fear” among protesters.AdvertisementIran has long spied on the online activities of dissidents, but it has recently turned to cyberespionage campaigns aimed at the United States, according to recent reports by security firms. Those campaigns have left a trail of digital crumbs, allowing researchers to paint a vivid picture of whom Iranian hackers target — and when.“Through their carelessness, we were able to get a real picture of who these individuals are and what their goals are,” said Mr. Anderson, who has been researching Iranian hackers for more than five years.The hackers appeared to be testing malicious software on themselves or accidentally clicked on malware they were developing. Either way, they exposed activity on their own computers, inadvertently giving researchers a glimpse into their lives through chat logs, emails and the targeting of their victims.One six-month chat log between two Iranian hackers gave particular insight into how they ran their day-to-day operation. By tracing where and how web domains were registered, as well as other data found online, Mr. Anderson concluded that the aliases “mb_1986” and “ArYaIeIrAN” represented two Iranian men whose real names were Mojtaba Borhani and Behrouz Keshvari.Neither replied to a request for comment sent to email addresses referred to in their chat logs.Both had roots in the Iranian defacement community, which would attack and take over websites and Twitter accounts, replacing them with pro-Iranian slogans and images.Over time, the two become more sophisticated, developing malware as they moved between Iranian hacking groups. Recently, the men have been tied to a group known as “Charming Kitten” by security companies. The group is believed to be responsible for a range of attacks, including targeting aviation companies in the United States.The chat logs showed two men frustrated with the pace of their work.“We need someone for Mac in Tehran,” Mr. Keshvari wrote on June 15, 2014, bringing up a topic the two men had discussed nearly a month earlier. The best hackers, he complained, were making “good money” elsewhere, and were not tempted by the idea of moving to Tehran to work in a cramped office for roughly $780 a month. There should be some other benefit, Mr. Keshvari joked, at one point suggesting they offer to send prospective hires on vacation to Turkey and Thailand.AdvertisementMr. Keshvari appeared focused on bringing in prospective new hires, but he was often stymied by Mr. Borhani. On May 30, 2014, he complained that Mr. Borhani had scared off prospective new hires.“Listen, if during the interview you ask them about working with SCADA, I will kill you,” Mr. Keshvari wrote, referring to the operating system used to control industrial facilities, such as power plants or oil and gas refineries.Mr. Keshvari responded that he “does not do the interview in this way.” And after several profanities were exchanged, the two agreed to meet with a new recruit.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We need them … send them here,” Mr. Borhani wrote. He repeatedly pressed for programmers with expertise in Mac operating systems.Their focus on hiring people with an expertise in Apple products, specifically the Mac operating system, was unsurprising, Mr. Anderson said, given that many of Iran’s dissidents and human rights workers had transitioned to Apple products in the hopes that they would prove more secure than Microsoft’s Windows software.Last year, the first reports surfaced that Iranian hackers had developed malware targeting Macs. The malware stole victim’s passwords, and it has been used to target Iranian dissidents as well as the defense contractors in the United States, according to Mr. Anderson’s report.“Imagine them like start-ups who are contracted to the government,” Mr. Anderson said. “They are chasing demographics that the government has an interest in targeting.”The two men often discussed names and shared phone numbers of people they were working with, and one individual appeared to warrant deference. A figure named only as “Hajji,” a title widely used in the Muslim world to denote someone who carries out the hajj, a sacred pilgrimage to Mecca, appeared to frequently visit the men and make final decisions on whom they could hire to help with various projects.“It seems likely that Hajji is an Iranian government handler,” Mr. Anderson said. Iran’s government, he added, is careful to not directly tie itself to hackers involved in offensive operations. Iran’s government also probably operates a separate cyberwarfare department, though the people it employs there appear more skilled and better at covering their tracks, he said.Advertisement“The vast majority of their most recent operations focuses on cyberespionage,” Mr. Anderson said, a statement echoed by John Hultquist, director of intelligence analysis at the FireEye cybersecurity firm, which recently published its own report about one of Iran’s more active hacking groups.In the year since President Trump took office, Iran has focused its efforts on infiltrating the computers of anyone associated with the president, Mr. Anderson said.“They are clearly trying to gain any insight they can as to what this administration is going to do vis-à-vis Iran,” he said. “They are very persistent, but we don’t know their level of success.”There are few who know Iranian hackers persistence better than Thamar E. Gindin, an Iran specialist from Shalem College of Liberal Arts in Israel.In May 2015, Ms. Gindin was the “patient zero” in an attack by Iranian hackers, who infiltrated her computer through a malicious email and used it to try to gain access to other academics studying Iran, according to a report published by the Israeli cybersecurity firm ClearSky.With the help of ClearSky, the hackers were booted from her system. But in the two years since, they have tried almost monthly to get back in through a number of ploys playing to her personal interests — including posing as reporters from the BBC who hoped to interview her, and sharing a file on “unique chocolates” after she wrote a post on Facebook promoting her cousin’s chocolate business.Among the groups targeting her are Charming Kitten, the group Mr. Borhani and Mr. Keshvari had been linked to.“I feel like we are playing a game. I have to admit, I kind of like them,” Ms. Gindin said. “They are persistent and stubborn, but they aren’t very smart all the time. It’s really like a game.“Follow Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @sheeraf.A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Inside Peek Shows Iranian Hackers’ Maturing Threat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
The Carpetbagger By                     
 CARA BUCKLEY
 
JAN. 3, 2018
When Hollywood women announced that they would wear black at this Sunday’s Golden Globes in solidarity with sexual misconduct victims, it was inevitable that the plan would draw eye rolls.Popular culture’s fascination with — and derision for — the pomp and preening baked into awards shows can’t but extend to the women fixed in the cameras’ glare.Alternately revering and tearing down famous women for their red-carpet looks has become a blood sport. Any causes that actors and actresses might promote, from the carpet or the stage, can have the hollow ring of political messaging by beauty pageant contestants (with all due respect to the recent Miss Peru hopefuls who powerfully protested gender violence). Isn’t the red carpet at its heart a fashion show, a parade of the ultra-privileged, the land of “Good point, Cate, now let’s talk about that dress”? Doesn’t it perpetuate the objectification of women? Better to stay home, said the critics of Operation Black Gown: silently posturing in black would achieve exactly zilch.But then an anti-sexual-harassment action plan, impressive in its breadth and created by hundreds of powerful women in entertainment, was announced on New Year’s Day. Christened Time’s Up, the initiative includes a $14 million legal fund to help victims of sexual harassment nationwide, legislation to punish companies that tolerate it, and a push for gender equality among executives at talent agencies and studios.AdvertisementAsking women to wear black to the Globes was just part of Times Up’s larger vision.“A show of solidarity at an awards show is one very small piece,” said Reese Witherspoon, who spoke to the Bagger in late December about Time’s Up. “It really is a statement that women are deeply unified, we always have been, and that we stand up for those who can’t speak up.”The Time’s Up red carpet talking points are under wraps, but people in the know said that women, and probably a few men, will be — to use the parlance for saying pretty much anything these days — “speaking out.” (Apparently men are pledging to wear black too — which basically means swapping out their white tuxedo shirts for black ones.)“There’s a misconception that this is a silent protest,” said Eva Longoria, who was also chatting with the Bagger about Time’s Up. “Instead of asking us who we’re wearing, they’ll ask us why we’re wearing black. We’re using that platform and using our voices to say we can change this ideology, and shatter the sexism that teaches men that women are less.”AdvertisementThe Time’s Up initiative, in the works for months, was largely met with roars of approval. Head honchos in Hollywood donated money and avowed their support. The growing economic might of women certainly didn’t hurt. Nor did the fact that the top three films of 2017 were led by women.Yet some find fault in the red carpet plan, saying the extent to which women get so dolled up promotes unrealistic, male-gaze standards that are at odds with the Time’s Up core mission of fighting sexism.“Wearing black on the runway is all well and good, but it will only make a difference when women stop dressing and showing themselves as chattel,” a reader named Harriet Levy wrote on The New York Times’s Facebook page. “We might as well still be wearing corsets.”That comment drew both praise and predictable ripostes from people noting that it was skating dangerously near a “blame-the-victim-for-what-she’s-wearing” mentality, and that women could wear what they want. That said, many women, and men, see the red carpet as a grit-your-teeth-and-bear-it forced march driven by studio expectations and publicity demands, a repetitive dog-and-pony show that can feel endless during awards season. (It also can be lucrative for women getting paid by designers to sport their wares.)
                Here’s a guide to the Golden Globes nominees that are both streamable and worth your time from Watching, The New York Times’s TV and movie recommendation site.            And yet. That the quarry is coming armed to the red carpet’s shooting gallery represents a big leap from the not-so-distant days of 2015, when the #AskHerMore campaign was urging awards-season reporters to talk to actresses about more than dresses, diets and jewels.That year, Julianne Moore and Ms. Witherspoon made news for not thrusting their hands into the E! Mani Cam, refusals that CBS News took as a “sign of a growing gender-equality push in Hollywood.” Yes, the bar for gender equality had dipped that low. Weeks earlier, the internet had a mini-meltdown over the opera gloves Amal Clooney wore to the Golden Globes; they were likened to accouterments better suited for a prom, a debutante ball or, incredibly, a pornography scene.The #AskHerMore push, which Ms. Witherspoon helped champion, spurred more in-depth red carpet questions and a few gimmicky gems, like the time Buzzfeed peppered Eddie Redmayne and Michael Keaton with queries about Spanx. Since then, some of the more overt offenders have been retired: E! shut down its Mani Cam and, in November, broadcast the last episode of its no-claws-barred show, “Fashion Police.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Invariably, the spotlight moved from #AskHerMore and onto other serious issues like #OscarsSoWhite, and last year’s pushback against Donald J. Trump, which is sure to carry into this year.There’s certain to be more hashtaggable causes célèbres down the road, and many will have laudable results: #OscarsSoWhite, for one, helped compel the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to aggressively diversify its membership.But Time’s Up is the first time that so many women in Hollywood — more than 300 actresses, agents, producers, writers, showrunners and executives — have collectively pooled their resources for the singular purpose of fighting pernicious sexism. It extends beyond speechifying to tangible solutions. Notable lawyers like Anita Hill and Tina Tchen, who was Michelle Obama’s chief of staff, are heavily involved. Prominent Hollywood women are leveraging their power to help women with less of it, and to force change. Several talent agencies have already pledged to achieve gender parity in their leadership tiers in the next two years.AdvertisementCan all of this — any of it — be relayed by actresses wearing black at the Golden Globes? Maybe. Probably. At least in part. They’ll be playing the game on their own terms, and there’s power in that.Follow Cara Buckley on Twitter: @caraNYT.A version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Fighting  Back,  Wearing Black.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

 Eric Asimov
 

THE POUR
JAN. 22, 2018
One of wine’s great treasures is available, free, with the touch of a smartphone or the click of a mouse.It’s the “I’ll Drink to That” podcast, which since 2012 has come to be an indispensable resource for anybody who loves wine and is curious about the personalities and histories of wine producers, sommeliers and others in the trade.By wine producers, I don’t mean fly-by-nights seizing marketing opportunities to promote mediocre bottles. I am referring to the custodians of some of the greatest vineyards and cellars in the world, people like Aubert de Villaine of Domaine de la Romanée-Conti in Burgundy or Maria Teresa Mascarello of Bartolo Mascarello, whose voices are rarely heard except by the most privileged of visitors.Through the podcast’s 442 episodes (and counting), Levi Dalton, the host and a former sommelier in New York, has talked to people of consequence in almost every corner and level of the business.AdvertisementSome are well known, like the writer Hugh Johnson and the restaurateur Danny Meyer. Others are unrecognized outside the business, but their stories are so interesting that you want to learn a lot more about them.I mean people like Elena Pantaleoni, who makes wonderful wines at La Stoppa in Emilia-Romagna, Italy; Becky Wasserman, an American who has lived in Burgundy for decades and has played a crucial role in identifying some of the most soulful wine producers in France; and Carole Meredith, a former grape genetics professor who discovered that zinfandel was identical to a Croatian variety, tribidrag, and now has a winery, Lagier Meredith, in Napa Valley.Wine is enjoyable enough if you know no more about what you are drinking than what’s in the glass. But the more context you add, the more fascinating it becomes. “I’ll Drink to That” provides the sort of background that helps to transform the notion of wine from a simple beverage to a complex culture.The podcasts are bare-bones, largely free of sound effects, except for the occasional segments produced by Erin Scala, another former New York sommelier who now owns In Vino Veritas, a wine shop in Keswick, Va. They may include thoughtful essays on issues that wine geeks, at least, debate frequently, like whether to include the grape stems in the fermentation process.Otherwise, the podcasts are mostly recorded in Mr. Dalton’s unprepossessing studio apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, where he lives with his wife, Ayako, a private chef, and their young son, Louie.AdvertisementGuests, like Christian Moueix, proprietor of Château Trotanoy in Pomerol and Dominus Estate in Napa Valley, among others, may be offered a cup of tea before sitting across a dining table from Mr. Dalton. While he also records podcasts on location while visiting wine regions, the interviews are always conducted face to face.You could make an entire playlist of great Burgundy producers, like Guillaume d’Angerville and Michel Lafarge, the alpha and omega of Volnay; as well as Jeremy Seysses of Domaine Dujac, Jean-Marie Fourrier of Domaine Fourrier, or Frédéric Mugnier of Domaine Jacques-Frédéric Mugnier.Bordeaux is not neglected, nor is California, Champagne or Italy. Mr. Dalton has conducted fascinating interviews with Thomas Duroux of Château Palmer, Ehren Jordan of Failla, Jean-Baptiste Lécaillon of the great Champagne producer Louis Roederer, and Frank Cornelissen, a natural wine producer on Mount Etna in Sicily. And if you have a taste for good assyrtiko from the island of Santorini, listen to Mr. Dalton interview Yiannis Paraskevopoulos of Gai’a Wines. Afterward, you might consider aging a few bottles of assyrtiko.Over time, Mr. Dalton has noticed patterns among winemakers.“In the U.S., some guy decides he wants to make wine, and does it,” he said. “In Europe, it’s often a family generational story. Both of these really resonate with me.”For those who have enjoyed a bottle of excellent traditional Rioja from R. López de Heredia, the voice of María José López de Heredia — describing how her family came to be ardent guardians of methods long ago abandoned by other Rioja producers — can add depth and dimension to the wine.If you love New York restaurants, you may savor hearing Ned Benedict, now an importer at Grand Cru Selections, talk about his time at Bouley and elsewhere in the 1990s. If you know Paul Grieco only as the proprietor of Terroir (a wine bar in TriBeCa), his childhood in a restaurant family in Toronto lends added flavor to his proselytizing for the glories of riesling.“I’ll Drink to That” is not the only podcast focused on wine. “GrapeRadio,” a pioneer of the genre, has been in business for more than a decade. Much of the material in its archive is interesting and relaxed, though rarely does it go deeply beneath the surface.“Inside Winemaking” with its focus on the process of winemaking, is educational. Like “GrapeRadio” it emphasizes West Coast producers. Another podcast, “Wine for Normal People,” produced by a wife-and-husband team in Atlanta, tries, as the title suggests, to eliminate anything that sounds like wine snobbery.Advertisement“I’ll Drink to That” is different. It does not pretend to be a wine primer, and it makes few concessions to newcomers who are not already familiar with the intricacies of wine or its places and people.“I don’t want to talk about, ‘If you don’t know what rosé is, here’s an explanation,’” Mr. Dalton said. “My strength is talking to people who are already committed to wine, and I want to take them further.”Even so, one does not need to be a Barolo expert to be inspired by the writer Ian d’Agata’s almost vineyard-by-vineyard deconstruction of Barolo terroir as he walks the audience through the various differences among them and how they affect the wines. I wanted to listen to it a second time, with a glass of Barolo in hand.You could say that Mr. Dalton, 41, was born to the restaurant business. His mother worked as a waitress in Los Angeles and later at the Timberline Lodge on Mount Hood in Oregon, before moving to Montclair, N.J. His father was a cook. They divorced when Levi (pronounced LEH-vee) was young, and he often found himself in the company of restaurant workers.“It was a little like a surrogate family,” he said. “I didn’t have siblings, so I hung out with career waiters, people with life experience.”By the late 1990s, he was supporting himself at Boston University by working as a busboy. Hoping to earn more as a waiter, he applied for a job at the Federalist, a restaurant that was renowned for its wine list.He got the job and, sensing he could increase his income if he sold more wine, he set about teaching himself, reading everything he could and working in the restaurant’s wine cellar. As an added bonus at the Federalist, he was able to taste many classic wines from Bordeaux, the Rhône and Germany. Eventually he became a sommelier.“It was a different era,” he said. “Wine was less expensive. Regular people could have great bottles of wine for special events. Now they can’t.”AdvertisementThat all changed after 9/11. Customers stopped spending money, Mr. Dalton said, and eventually he lost his job. But one of the cooks at the Federalist opened a neighborhood Italian place and hired Mr. Dalton to manage the wine. There, he grounded himself in Italian wines.On a wine-tasting trip to New York, he sat at the bar at the restaurant Daniel and was wowed by the breadth of the wine list. A determination to work there sent him first to Florida, where his mother had relocated and where he landed a job at Café Boulud, which had opened a branch in Palm Beach. He parleyed that into a job in 2005 at Daniel, the mother ship of the chef Daniel Boulud.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.From there came gigs at Masa; Convivio and Alto, which are now closed, and then Bar Boulud and Boulud Sud. Along the way he got the idea of interviewing other sommeliers, who he felt had great stories to tell but were rarely heard. He met Matt Duckor, who was working at Bon Appétit magazine, and is now executive producer there and at Epicurious.Together, they hatched the idea of a podcast. Mr. Duckor would handle the technical production, and Mr. Dalton the interviews.At first, Mr. Dalton’s technique was rocky. He interrupted guests and seemed eager to demonstrate his own knowledge. “That’s a sensitive thing for me, learning how to be wrong,” he said.But over time, his work improved exponentially. He learned how to listen, to use silence to encourage further thoughts and, because he does know so much, became adept at asking excellent questions. Mr. Duckor left, but Ms. Scala arrived, and the podcasts improved technically as well.“Erin has been huge,” Mr. Dalton said. “She said, ‘Levi, what you’re doing is really important, and she had recording and editing experience.”Crucial to sustaining the podcast was sponsorship, which came in the form of SevenFifty.com, an online tool for the beverage trade.Along the way, Mr. Dalton has produced a remarkable archive — great to listen to now, but of historic value as well. Some of his subjects have died, like Serge Hochar, the iconoclastic proprietor of Château Musar in Lebanon, and Margrit Mondavi, the widow of Robert Mondavi. But their words are available, almost instantly.AdvertisementMr. Dalton had been negotiating interviews with Paul Pontallier of Château Margaux in Bordeaux, and Anne-Claude Leflaive of Domaine Leflaive in Burgundy, but both died before they could take place.While Mr. Dalton has spoken with some of wine’s greatest personalities, a few, like the wine critic Robert M. Parker Jr. and the storied importers Kermit Lynch and Neal Rosenthal, have resisted or not responded to invitations.One of the nicest moments, Mr. Dalton said, was when Mr. de Villaine of Romanée-Conti arrived at Mr. Dalton’s little apartment. Looking at it, he said, “I can see that a lot of nice memories have been had in this place.” A lot of history, too.Beyond “I’ll Drink to That,” numerous other podcasts focus on wine. Here are four. Most are available through their websites or iTunes.“GRAPERADIO” In business for more than a decade, “GrapeRadio” is like a talk show where the subject is wine.“INSIDE WINEMAKING” Focuses on all aspects of making wine, with a largely West Coast point of view.“THE VINCAST” Direct from Melbourne, Australia, with an emphasis on that country but not exclusively so. Entertaining and informative.“WINE FOR NORMAL PEOPLE” Wide-ranging but easygoing discussion of wine issues for nonexperts.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Write to Eric Asimov at asimov@nytimes.com, and follow him on Twitter: @EricAsimov.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Bringing The Masters To the Public.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SHANE GOLDMACHERJAN. 2, 2018
Republican prospects to unseat Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in November just grew exponentially more daunting, with Harry Wilson’s decision this week to forgo his bid — leaving party strategists downcast, frustrated and scrambling.Mr. Wilson, a businessman who unsuccessfully ran for state comptroller in 2010, was widely seen as the Republicans’ top recruit, and he had seriously looked at the governor’s race for months.He registered the site www.wilsonforgovernor.com in May 2017. He told Republican officials that he would invest $10 million of his own fortune into his campaign. He repeatedly pinged New York and national strategists about his pathway, including traveling to gatherings like the Republican Governors Association.But he officially pulled the plug in a New Year’s Day Facebook post, citing his commitment to his family.Advertisement“Everyone was really hoping for Harry Wilson,” said Andrea Catsimatidis, the chairwoman of the Manhattan Republican Party. “We thought he would be great.”AdvertisementNow New York Republicans are headed into the midterm elections, saddled by a president who is deeply unpopular in this heavily Democratic state and without a clear leader of their own for the top of the ticket. Whoever does run faces the financial might of Mr. Cuomo, who had banked more than $25 million for his run as of mid-2017 and is expected to report having millions of dollars more in the coming weeks.“Because Harry was able to come to the table with his own personal financial commitment, we all kind of held in place wondering whether he’d get in or out,” said Marcus Molinaro, the Dutchess County executive, who is also considering a Republican bid for governor. Just to match Mr. Cuomo’s treasury from six months ago, any Republican would need to raise more than $550,000 every week between now and November.In a dozen interviews, Republican operatives and officials expressed a fresh urgency at their predicament. The state’s Republican congressional delegation is in the cross hairs of national Democrats hoping to win back the House, especially following the passage of a new tax law that punishes high-tax states like New York. And the party’s current lone foothold on power in Albany, their control of the State Senate bolstered by fragile alliances with renegade Democrats, is also imperiled this fall.Over sodas and sandwiches, more than a dozen of New York’s top Republican political strategists gathered last month, convened by Ms. Catsimatidis, to plot a path back for the party.On a whiteboard, they brainstormed together a list of ideal characteristics for a statewide Republican candidate, among them: resources (i.e. having money or the ability to raise vast sums), being a woman, being a political outsider, speaking Spanish and having a political base in downstate New York.The problem? The current crop of Republicans check off almost none of those boxes.So far, the only declared candidate is Brian Kolb, the Republican minority leader in the Assembly who represents a district near Rochester. Besides Mr. Molinaro, John DeFrancisco, the No. 2 Republican in the State Senate from near Syracuse, is also mulling a run, as is the former Erie County executive Joel Giambra, who since became a lobbyist and endorsed Hillary Clinton in 2016.In addition to the messaging challenge of ousting a two-term governor for a political insider, Mr. Cuomo has proved adept at locking up campaign cash from institutional Albany, the same donors those challengers would likely have to rely upon.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“You can’t take the fight to Albany if you’re from Albany,” said one of the Republican operatives who attended, who spoke anonymously to not disparage the eventual nominee because so many of the current candidates are linked to Albany.AdvertisementSome have urged Chele Chiavacci Farley, a finance chairwoman for the New York Republican Party, to challenge Mr. Cuomo. Ms. Farley is currently laying the groundwork to run against Senator Kirsten Gillibrand this year, and has begun assembling a campaign team, including John Brabender, a former adviser to the presidential candidate Rick Santorum, and the pollster John McLaughlin.But Ms. Farley has told people she is set on a Senate bid.“It’s clear that hard-working taxpayers are fed up with Kirsten Gillibrand’s obstruction, political grandstanding, and ineffectiveness,” she said in a statement. “In the next few weeks, I will be making an official announcement about my intentions.”Republican county party leaders are set to gather in Albany on Monday to plot their next steps; two days later, in Manhattan, the same strategists that met last month are scheduled to reconvene.For now, the Republican political strategy seems to be mostly hoping that Mr. Cuomo, riding high in polls, self-destructs: that the transit woes of New York City’s subways worsen; that the upcoming corruption trial of one of his former top aides, Joseph Percoco, tarnishes his image; that the state budget falls out of whack; that Democrats challenge and wound him from the left in a primary; and that the third term curse proves an actual curse.Geoff Berman, the executive director of the New York Democratic Party, rattled off Mr. Cuomo’s accomplishments, including gun control, infrastructure investment and managing the budget for Mr. Cuomo’s strong position.“That’s a hard record to run against, and these would-be candidates know it,” Mr. Berman said. “New Yorkers aren’t stupid. They know a good thing when they see one and are not going to be fooled by the empty rhetoric of extreme conservatives, no matter how well-funded or rich they may be.”Ed Cox, the chairman of the New York Republican Party, said the governor’s race would be an “anybody but Cuomo” campaign, just like the one that felled Mr. Cuomo’s father, the former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, in 1994. Except now Republicans are expected to battle Trump headwinds; in 1994, they were riding an anti-Clinton wave.“The Bills are in the playoffs for the first time in 17 years, so I always remain hopeful that we can win statewide,” said Andrea Bozek, a Buffalo-based Republican strategist who previously ran communications for House Republican campaigns nationally.But in New York, she said, Republicans are inured to a weak top of the ticket.“It’s just a benefit that we haven’t enjoyed,” she said. “It would be awesome, but …”AdvertisementHer voice trailed off, and she didn’t finish the sentence.A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: G.O.P. Scrambling After a Potential Cuomo Rival Bows Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
JAN. 3, 2018
Good morning on this (somewhat) warmer Wednesday.While many New Yorkers are still returning from holiday, city and state officials are already pounding the political pavement.Mayor Bill de Blasio was sworn into office for his second term on Monday, and today, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo will deliver the annual State of the State address in Albany.The stakes are higher this year for the governor, a Democrat in his second term — he’s up for re-election in November and may have presidential ambitions for 2020.Though Mr. Cuomo has been lauded for progressive victories — like tuition-free college, the legalization of same-sex marriage, a higher minimum wage and paid family leave — he has also faced troubles in office. He has been blamed (and blamed some more) for New York City’s transit crisis. He has also been criticized for his response to sexual harassment allegations against one former senior aide, and for his ties to another aide who will go on trial this month to face corruption charges.AdvertisementIn his speech this afternoon, Mr. Cuomo will lay out his vision for the state. A few of the plans he is expected to put forward:On SafetyHis gun-control proposal would take firearms out of the hands of New Yorkers who commit domestic violence crimes. One criminal justice proposal would outlaw “sextortion” and revenge porn, and another would address workplace sexual harassment.AdvertisementOn the EnvironmentSeveral environmental proposals would take action to protect New York’s water, from the Hudson River and Long Island to Niagara Falls and our state lakes. Another plan would outline steps to fight climate change, and a separate land proposal would reduce the local property tax.On EducationHis “No Student Goes Hungry” proposal would give students in kindergarten through college healthy meals at school. Another  proposal would help students and graduates navigate loans and debt. He will also unveil plans to better prepare New Yorkers for the work force.The speech will begin at 1 p.m., and you can watch it online. (The live stream will appear on the website a few minutes before 1 p.m.)Here’s what else is happening:After getting through days of single digits, today’s high around 29 might feel comparatively bearable.It will stay sunny and bright until flurries begin this evening, leaving us with a windy, snow-shrouded Thursday.The weekend’s looking clear, but even colder.• Transportation officials are left wondering if President Trump decided to block the plan to build an $11 billion rail tunnel under the Hudson River. [New York Times]• Corey Johnson is expected to become the next speaker of the New York City Council, arguably the second-most influential political post in the city. [New York Times]Advertisement• In an unusual degree of consensus among the notoriously divided state Legislature, lawmakers propose legislation cracking down on sexual harassment. [New York Times]• New York Republicans’ best hope to challenge Governor Cuomo has backed out, leaving the party scrambling. [New York Times]• A federal judge cleared the way for the $905 million sale of Starrett City, the nation’s largest federally subsidized apartment complex. [New York Times]• Mayor de Blasio announced a plan to protect pedestrians from truck attacks by installing 1,500 bollards around the city. [New York Times]• City officials said they were taking the first step to shuttering Rikers Island by closing a facility that houses 600 men at the jail site this summer. [New York Post]• What happened to Brooklyn’s political clout? A look at how the king-making county lost its mojo. [The Bridge]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• An Upper West Side church once slated for a condo conversion will now be the new home of the Children’s Museum of Manhattan. [Curbed]• At MulchFest, you can bring your Christmas tree to a city park to be ground up into wood chips, which will be used to feed plants and trees on streets and in parks across the city. [Bklyner]• After seeking help at a domestic violence shelter in 2012, a mother pushes forward to give her children a better life. [New York Times]Advertisement• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Walking the Dog”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Visit the Whimsical Winter Wonder photo shoot, where families can take pictures with Wanderlust the Unicorn, the Crescent Moon and other fantasy props, at Poe Park in the Bronx. 2:30 p.m. [Free]• “The Power of Poop,” a talk by the gastroenterologist Ari Grinspan about gut health and the microbes in our intestines, at the American Museum of Natural History on the Upper West Side. 7 p.m. [Free]• Celebrate the holiday season with a Tenet and Bach Vespers performance of hymns, carols and motets at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church on the Upper West Side. 7:30 p.m. [Tickets start at $30]• Grab a group of friends for “Yellow Tape,” a bar trivia show focused on all-things true crime, unsolved mysteries and more, at Q.E.D. in Astoria, Queens. 9 p.m. [$7]• Looking ahead: On Saturday, adults can see the still-festive Train Show after hours — with cocktails and live music — as part of “Bar Car Nights” at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx.• Knicks at Wizards, 7 p.m. (MSG). Nets host Timberwolves, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Rangers host Blackhawks, 8 p.m. (NBCSN).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Jan. 15.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.AdvertisementIn December, New Yorkers were using LinkNYC stations to dial Santa at the North Pole.This month, they can use the sidewalk kiosks to sign up for health care coverage.LinkNYC, which offers free Wi-Fi connections and web browsing at thousands of city street corners, is working with GetCoveredNYC and the city’s Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications to create a health care enrollment app on tablets across the five boroughs. New Yorkers can use the app to explore insurance options, enroll and change existing plans.The open enrollment period for new health insurance plans ends Jan. 31.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ALASTAIR MACAULAYJAN. 2, 2018
So Peter Martins, after accusations of sexual harassment and physical and verbal abuse of dancers over decades, has retired from New York City Ballet and the School of American Ballet. An independent investigation of those allegations continues. But this may be the moment to reform the entire job description, and thus to reform ballet.Mr. Martins inherited a remarkable and wide-ranging job model from George Balanchine, who, with Lincoln Kirstein, founded the school in 1934 and City Ballet in 1948. Balanchine began as the company’s artistic director but changed his title in the 1950s to “ballet master”: Ostensibly he was one of several, but ruled with a generally accepted authority that rendered his word as law.Today there are no Balanchines. Is it time to revise the posts that Balanchine filled? Or might this diminish the art form by reducing the scope for creative vision?Mr. Martins has long been the principal inheritor of the power and the duties — teaching, choreographing, casting, commissioning, supervising, coaching — that once were Balanchine’s. Mr. Martins became one of the company’s main ballet masters in 1981; after Balanchine’s death in 1983, he began by working in tandem with Jerome Robbins, whose ballets have been part of the company’s lifeblood. Soon, however, Mr. Martins took sole command. In 1989, he assumed the title ballet master in chief. (Some Balanchine devotees felt “in chief” was excessive.)AdvertisementIt is now almost 35 years since Balanchine died. Nevertheless, City Ballet has remained of singular importance to ballet worldwide. Balanchine has become increasingly recognized as the foremost (and the most influential) choreographer of 20th-century ballet. And while the Balanchine enterprise has spawned companies across America and influenced others around the world, City Ballet and the School of American Ballet have remained central to the Balanchine practice.AdvertisementAnd under Mr. Martins the company has been the global leader in post-Balanchine choreography. This policy has paid rich dividends in recent years with City Ballet creations by Justin Peck, Alexei Ratmansky and Christopher Wheeldon entering repertories across America and around the world.It’s not for me to advocate any heir to Balanchine or Mr. Martins; I strongly dislike the notion of critic as kingmaker or power broker. But when change comes, I must ask: How will the company — and the art form itself — be changed, too?If the company is to move forward, several important issues must be considered. Most obviously, a system of checks and balances should be introduced to prevent the abuse of dancers. Harassment within ballet has been reported elsewhere. Let City Ballet now set a global example.Crucially, should the job at City Ballet now be divided into two or more parts? If so, how?Mr. Martins didn’t stop teaching, but his choreography — never much admired by critics — ceased to be the prime source of new stage energy for the company once he appointed a resident choreographer (Mr. Wheeldon from 2001 to 2008, Mr. Peck since 2014).Elsewhere there have been artistic directors of note who neither teach nor choreograph. City Ballet, however, has been a different organism. Would it be changed beyond recognition by such a director? And, of prime concern to dance-goers and dancers alike: Can the company continue in its dual capacity as the world leader in new choreography and the foremost exponent of the Balanchine-Robbins repertory?Since Dec. 9, after Mr. Martins took a leave of absence, the day-to-day artistic direction of City Ballet has been in the hands of an impressively young foursome: Craig Hall and Rebecca Krohn (ballet masters), Mr. Peck and Jonathan Stafford (a former principal now on the school’s faculty). The company also has an executive director, Katherine E. Brown, who runs business matters, reporting directly to the board. (The post was created for her in 2009.)How now to move forward? For weeks, people on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter have proposed candidates that include men and women, people of various races and sexual orientations. Please note, though, how few of them fulfill the multiple roles of the Balanchine-Martins model. The old creative ballet-master practice has been largely eroded. (Not entirely: Helgi Tomasson at San Francisco Ballet and Ib Andersen at Ballet Arizona — City Ballet alumni — are both artistic directors who choreograph, teach and coach.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Balanchine didn’t invent the notion of a directing ballet master — the teacher who made ballets and controlled policy. It went back to at least the 18th century. (Its 19th-century exemplars included August Bournonville and Marius Petipa.) For Balanchine, like masters before him, a company’s dancers had to be custom-trained by its school. And the choreographer who made the ballets had to keep developing his style by teaching, often daily, in the classroom, which became a kind of laboratory.AdvertisementIf City Ballet is run by a person who neither teaches nor choreographs, it will move far in spirit from the Balanchine-Kirstein principle. Certainly this may well be the moment for greater artistic separation between the company and the school — and yet that’s easier said than done, since no company depends more on works, by Balanchine and others, in which students of several ages dance.We live in post-Balanchine times. “Ballet is woman,” he said — but his kind of ballet was always a man’s view of woman, and a solely heterosexual one. Though the Balanchine worldview made women empowered and inspiring, it did not include women’s equality in the workplace or same-sex relationships. Balanchine brought many women to the top, and yet neither he nor Kirstein considered one to be his successor.When alive, Balanchine was controversial, not least in the demands he placed on his female dancers. Seemingly unstoppable, he transformed his art. And today, many of the teachers and choreographers influenced by him — including the team now at City Ballet’s helm — either never met him or were born after his time.It was Kirstein who labored to ensure the school and the company would outlive Balanchine. Conversely, Balanchine expressed no confidence that they would, at least on any scale of consequence. Some of his devotees, lastingly despondent about his legacy, still insist either that the flame died with him or that it passed elsewhere. Of the company after his death, Balanchine remarked, “Après moi, le board.”Now the boards of the company and the school are faced with big decisions about replacing Mr. Martins. Yet these very boards retained him after the first serious complaints were made against him in the last century. Who knew what and for how long?Let nobody — the boards, critics, other interested parties — rush into promoting their special favorites or pursuing their own agendas. The responsibility of redirecting City Ballet is both considerable and complex. Let the thoughts percolate. History is about to change — but how?A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2018, on Page C5 of the New York edition with the headline: At City Ballet, History Is About to Change.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Adolescence By                     
LISA DAMOUR

JAN. 2, 2018
Teenagers are drafted into a sexual culture that rests on a harmful premise: On the heterosexual field, boys typically play offense and girls play defense. This problematic framework underlies the findings of a new study that documents, in alarming detail, girls’ reports of the common coercive practices boys use to solicit nude digital photographs. An analysis of nearly 500 accounts from 12- to 18-year-old girls about their negative experiences with sexting found that over two-thirds had been asked for explicit images.The majority described facing intense pressure that often began with promises of affection and discretion in exchange for “nudes,” before accelerating to “persistent requests, anger displays, harassment and threats.” The study drew from comments posted between 2010 and 2016 on A Thin Line, MTV’s campaign against sexting, cyber bullying and digital dating abuse. As one research participant explained about being pressured by her boyfriend, with the shorthand and spelling errors of a texting teenager:my bf preaused me for hours to send him pictures of me naked. Now he threarens to send them out if i dont send hin more really nasty pics. The stuff i have to do is unbelievable. im 14.Other research has found that while both boys and girls send naked images, boys are nearly four times as likely to pressure girls to send sexts as girls are to pressure boys to do so.In the wider culture, it appears we have suddenly come to the limit of our tolerance for the sexualized abuse of power by adult men. A logical next step is to recalibrate some of the toxic norms that have taken hold among teenagers. Most schools and many parents already tell teenagers not to send sexualized selfies. But why don’t we also tell adolescents to stop asking for nude photos from one another?It is of course true that simply declaring a new behavioral code will not erase a problem. But rules can make a difference. For starters, they articulate norms. We advise adolescents not to share naked pictures because we worry that minors may not recognize the full scope of the potential personal, and possibly legal, consequences of creating and distributing sexually explicit content. But when we say next to nothing against the practice of soliciting sexts, we miss the opportunity to help teenagers see why that might also be a bad idea.AdvertisementSara Thomas, the author of the new study and a doctoral student at the School of Education and Social Policy at Northwestern, noted that simply telling girls not to send photographs “ignores the complicated tensions they are negotiating on a regular basis.” If we really don’t want teenagers to send sexualized photos, we should set limits on the most likely trigger for sexting: requests.AdvertisementIn talking about sexting with both daughters and sons, parents might say, “We don’t want you to share nude photos of yourself — even with someone you really care about and trust — because doing so puts you in a terrible position. The relationship might change, or that person could simply lose track of their phone. It’s just not worth the risk.” To that we should add, “And it’s not O.K. to request naked pictures because then you are putting someone else in a terrible position. Don’t do that either.”We might also alert teenagers that, depending on where they live, they could face legal consequences for requesting nude selfies from minors. States without laws specifically addressing sexting fall back on established child pornography statutes which can, in some cases, deliver severe penalties for soliciting, enticing or encouraging the creation of explicit content.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Rules can also serve as useful behavioral speed bumps. Adolescents are impulsive by nature and gaps can readily emerge between what they know they ought to do and what they actually do. Teenagers who are asking, much less harassing, peers for sexts almost certainly realize that they are crossing a line. But if that line is never stressed or enforced by adults, they are far less likely to heed it. I’m also sure that plenty of boys would appreciate having a clearly articulated rule upon which they could blame their good behavior when they are pressed by peers to obtain illicit images.Nearly a decade ago, the head of the school where I consult two days a week sternly warned our students to stay out of an ugly imbroglio involving kids at another school, which was playing out on Facebook. When it was clear that our students had totally complied, I asked one of our most levelheaded juniors how she accounted for her peers’ surprising restraint. She said, “Well, you want to involve yourself, and you almost do. Then you remember the rule. And then, a little bit later, you realize that jumping in probably would have been a bad idea anyway.”In a far separate domain, the National Hockey League penalizes both acts of aggression, such as head-butting, and also “inciting an opponent into incurring a penalty.” Now, hockey arenas are among America’s temples of manliness and may not be the first place one would look for models of decorum. And certainly some players do not abide by those rules. But the fact that the rules address both sides could provide a useful starting point for a conversation, especially with boys who question whether provoking misbehavior constitutes misconduct.Finally, rules can be used to address power imbalances. The girls in Ms. Thomas’s study felt they had little recourse for dealing with the often hostile barrage of solicitations for pictures. One study participant wrote:…they want me to send naked pics of me and I don’t want to send them….but like idk wat to do cuz they said if I don’t send them tht their goinq to spreads roumors and help me out plzzz :((Shifting the norms about soliciting images could helpfully shift the balance of power. If parents and schools have made clear that the requests are a violation, girls would feel that they had the option of taking screen shots of them and seeking help from adults.That our focus has been so preponderantly on the sending, not requesting, of sexts underscores the exact problem we need to address. We accept and perpetuate the boys-play-offense and girls-play-defense framework because it is so atmospheric as to be almost invisible. Indeed, as someone who cares for adolescents for a living I can say that it was painful for me to realize that many of my early career conversations with teenage girls boiled down to: “The adults are asking you to regulate adolescent sexuality. Because we’re not going to ask the boys.”As we re-examine the sexual power dynamics between adults, we owe it to our teenagers to include them in the progress we are making. Laying out high and equitable expectations for young people as they begin their own romantic lives can only be a step in the right direction.Lisa Damour (@LDamour) is a psychologist in Shaker Heights, Ohio, and the author of “Untangled: Guiding Teenage Girls Through the Seven Transitions Into Adulthood.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By PATRICK BOEHLERJAN. 3, 2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, blamed the country’s foreign “enemies” for a wave of deadly protests. He did not identify those foes but said that he would address the Iranian people “when the time is right.”The protests, increasingly aimed at the country’s leaders, were set off by miscalculations in a long-simmering power struggle between hard-liners and reformers, our correspondent reports from Tehran.In a video, we look at how the current unrest differs from that in 2009.President Emmanuel Macron of France urged the Iranian government to show restraint. Meanwhile, the Trump administration expressed its support for the protesters and called for an end to restrictions on the internet._____• President Trump taunted Kim Jong-un over North Korea’s arsenal: “I too have a Nuclear Button,” Mr. Trump tweeted, “but it is a much bigger & more powerful one.” (Reactions on social media steered in a predictable direction.)AdvertisementHe also threatened to withhold aid to Palestinians and Pakistan and  referred to his own Justice Department as “deep state.” (Pakistan dismissed Mr. Trump’s outburst as “incomprehensible.”)AdvertisementSeparately in Washington, Orrin Hatch, the longest-serving Republican senator and one of Mr. Trump’s allies, said he would retire. The open seat creates an opportunity for Mitt Romney, a Trump critic, to run._____• Fake news is most likely to be read by older and more conservative Americans, according to a new study. Researchers analyzed the browsing histories of thousands of American adults during the run-up to the 2016 presidential election.The study found that even those most likely to read demonstrably false news stories online still received most of their news from the mainstream media.Facebook, by far, was the platform from which people most often navigated to a fake news site, according to researchers._____• The Dutch are living longer than previous generations, and often alone.New courses, which teach the elderly not only how to avoid falling but also how to fall correctly, are gaining popularity. Such classes are now common enough that the government rates them.(In one exercise, above, the students start by lowering themselves slowly onto mats. Over several weeks, they learn to fall without injuring themselves.)What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Researchers in Finland have developed artificial intelligence that can generate images of celebrity look-alikes and a way to test the believability of such images.Advertisement• In the European Union, a new set of rules, known as MiFID II, which extends transparency requirements beyond stocks to bonds, commodities and derivatives, takes effect today.• China is suspending the production of more than 500 car models that do not meet its fuel economy standards.• Our DealBook columnist looks at 2017’s biggest deals and biggest winners. The DealBook team also took a look at key story lines for the next 12 months, including trade fights, Uber and North Korea.• Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Prosecutors in Germany are looking into complaints that two far-right lawmakers who used Twitter violated the country’s newly strengthened hate speech laws. The politicians say they are being censored. [The New York Times]• The Israeli left expressed relief over the removal of wording in a bill that would have made it easier to redraw the Jerusalem map to exclude Palestinians. [The New York Times]• Bulgaria’s president vetoed a bill that would establish a special antigraft unit, arguing that investigators wouldn’t be sufficiently sheltered from political interference. [Reuters]• China’s demand for donkey hides, to produce a gelatin used in traditional medicine, is disrupting livelihoods in Kenya and elsewhere in Africa. [The New York Times]• “I was misguided.” A YouTube star with millions of followers apologized for posting a video that showed a dead body. [The New York Times]Advertisement• Our food critic writes that revelations of sexual harassment are playing out “excruciatingly slowly,” if at all, in the restaurant world. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• We’ve long known that dietary fiber is good for us. New research explains why.• To usher in the new year, we asked creative people to share the homemade recipes they count on to detox. Here’s a cleansing juice from the Missoni family.• Recipe of the day: Try pan-roasted cauliflower with garlic, parsley and rosemary.• Researchers are using treadmills to measure sea turtles’ impressive stamina.• In tennis news, Andy Murray’s participation in the Australian Open is in doubt because of a lingering hip problem.• Tottenham, a diverse neighborhood in London, is caught in one of the city’s largest ever redevelopment programs. Some residents fear that gentrification could force them out.• Ukraine was once a vital part of the Soviet space program. The nation still holds on to its proud scientific traditions.• Finally, have a laugh at our 360-video bloopers. Here are moments that didn’t make the cut.“Charlie Brown, Snoopy, Linus, Lucy … how can I ever forget them?”AdvertisementThose were Charles M. Schulz’s parting words in the final daily “Peanuts” comic strip, which ran 18 years ago today.They recalled a slightly less sentimental line from the strip’s debut, nearly 50 years earlier, in which a carefree Charlie Brown strolls by a pair of children.“Good ol’ Charlie Brown,” one says. “How I hate him!”That juxtaposition of earnestness and wry humor made “Peanuts” a pop-cultural mainstay for half a century, reaching 75 countries in 21 languages at its peak.Mr. Schulz, shown above in 1966, insisted on producing every aspect of the comic, making himself inseparable from his characters.“I want it to be my words in everything I do,” he told The Times in 1967. “I’ve thought of it — hiring someone to help. Sometimes I think it would be nice. But then — what would be the point?”When colon cancer forced Mr. Schulz to end the daily strip in 2000 at age 77, The Times invoked a dismal Charlie Brown, mourning the end of the baseball season: “There’s a dreariness in the air that depresses me.”Mr. Schulz died a month later, but all 17,897 “Peanuts” strips would be anthologized over the next two decades.Dan Sanchez contributed reporting._____This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.AdvertisementYou can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Patrick Boehler on Twitter: @mrbaopanrui. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
JAN. 2, 2018
Good morning on this teeth-chattering Tuesday.We’re starting the New Year with cold feet — and hands, and noses, and ears.For the past week or so, it’s been 15 to 20 degrees colder than normal for this time of year in New York City. The average high for Jan. 2 has, historically, been 39 degrees, but today it almost certainly won’t budge past 23.(Those who stood in Times Square on Sunday night to see the ball drop faced wind-whipped lows that felt as bitter as 5 to 10 degrees below zero, making it the city’s coldest New Year’s Eve since 1962.)Oddly enough, though, these brutally chilly days have brought us sunny skies and little snow.Why is that?AdvertisementWhen cold air blows into our area from arctic regions, as it has during this frigid streak, it has a tendency to be very dry, according to John Homenuk, the founder of New York Metro Weather. “A lot of times, if the polar vortex is nearby, it’s such a dominating feature that it’s very dry and very cold, and all the moisture is deflected away from it,” he said.AdvertisementDuring bigger snowstorms, he added, temperatures tend to rise closer to freezing. So in New York, at least, “you don’t tend to see that big a snowstorm in the single digits.”(Case in point: During the blizzard in January 2016, one of the largest snowfalls ever recorded in New York City, temperatures were generally in the 20s.)So what ingredients are needed to cook up a perfect storm?“In order to get snow of significance,” Mr. Homenuk said, “the main things you need are cold enough temperatures, lift in the atmosphere and moisture.”Later this week, when temperatures are expected to climb closer to 30, we may see some flurries. We’re in the clear for snow today and tomorrow, but it may feel as bone-chilling as 0 degrees as you head out for the day.“I’m sure people will be asking when it’s going to end,” Mr. Homenuk said of this cold spell. “We can probably look at the second week of January when things will start to improve — when our confidence will go up that when you walk outside, it’s going to be much less unpleasant than it is right now.”Here’s what else is happening:• Mayor Bill de Blasio was sworn in for his second and last term on Monday. [New York Times]• Though attendees came to witness Mayor de Blasio’s inauguration, many viewed the presence of Senator Bernie Sanders as a bonus. [New York Times]• Teterboro Airport in New Jersey, once seen as a source of pride for the New York region, is now seen by some of its neighbors as a noisy nuisance. [New York Times]Advertisement• Before Mayor de Blasio spoke at his second inauguration, would-be candidates to replace him in 2021 took turns at the microphone. [New York Times]• Park or playground? Developers and preservationists are in a dispute that could have major implications for a plan to develop a high-rise on what is now an East Harlem recreational spot. [New York Times]• New York City is retiring many of its Cold War-era signs designating certain indoor spaces as “nuclear fallout shelters.” [WNYC]• Starting Jan. 1, employees working for private companies in New York State will be eligible for paid family leave. Here’s what you need to know. [Pix 11]• All of New York City’s 471 subway stations now have countdown clocks. [New York Daily News]• How a Brooklyn resident, who has a disease that affects her coordination, draws on positive messages from WWE and Alcoholics Anonymous. [New York Times]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• • Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Meeting Bill Murray”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• It’s the final week to meet 18 mummies from ancient Egypt and pre-Columbian Peru, in the "Mummies" exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History on the Upper West Side. [Times and prices vary]• See a comedy show about our determination (or inability) to keep our New Year’s resolutions, at the Peoples Improv Theater in Flatiron. 8 p.m. [$8]• … Or resolve to get on stage yourself during open mics at the Creek and the Cave comedy club in Long Island City, Queens. 8 p.m. and 11 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• Looking ahead: Still pondering what to do with your holiday tree? You can “treecycle” it at drop-off locations across the five boroughs at Mulchfest this Saturday and Sunday. [Free]• Islanders host Bruins, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Knicks host Spurs, 7:30 p.m. (MSG). Devils at Blues, 8 p.m. (MSG+2).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Jan. 15.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.With the New Year comes a new look in Prospect Park.No more cars.Beginning today, the entire loop-drive through the park — east and west sides — will become car-free.The decision was decades in the making. Most recently, when the park held a trial run last summer, the city’s Department of Transportation found that closing the roadways to cars caused little to no incremental delays, further making a case for the change to be permanent.“As Brooklyn’s backyard,” said Sue Donoghue, president of the Prospect Park Alliance, “it is important to do all we can to ensure the park is a safe and tranquil destination for the millions of visitors who depend upon it for recreation and relaxation.”Following implementation today, the department plans to monitor traffic patterns in the area and adjust traffic signals if necessary.Now all we need is some warmer weather so we can actually enjoy it.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Tech We’re Using By                     
 SAM DOLNICK
 
JAN. 3, 2018
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Sam Dolnick, an assistant managing editor at The Times who oversees digital initiatives, discussed the tech he’s using.You oversee podcasts, virtual reality and other new digital efforts. What does a typical day look like for your media consumption?I used to begin the day scrolling through my phone while still in bed. Recently I’ve gotten better at leaving my phone in another room while I sleep — which means that now the first thing I do when I wake up is make a mad dash to retrieve my phone from the living room.I read several email newsletters, then I read The Times’s front page in print, flip to the Opinion pages and scan for other articles to read on my phone during the commute.AdvertisementMy 7-year-old daughter will usually ask Alexa to play a terrible song — the democratization of music choice is one of the untold perils of the modern era. Then, Alexa will thankfully interrupt with an alarm that it’s time to leave for the bus.I work with the team that produces The Daily, and I listen to that day’s edition as I walk to the subway; I now take a longer route so I can finish it before the train. I’m always interested in the personalized playlists Spotify makes for me — what do the algorithms say about me? I check Twitter more often than I should, but it’s the easiest way that I find unexpected and surprising stuff. I try to look for at least one weird thing made on the internet every day.AdvertisementAt night, my wife and I will often watch a streaming show. We just started “Wormwood” on Netflix. And then I read actual physical books before going to sleep.You study new opportunities for The Times to distribute its journalism. How do you decide which ventures are worth pursuing? Lots of people have referred to this past year as a “media apocalypse” because of the harsh realities of digital advertising. But from a different angle, there’s never been a more exciting time to tell important stories and reach more people in more ways. Our mission at The Times is to help people understand the world, so we pursue opportunities where we can further that in new ways.We decided to push into virtual reality because we found the immersive power of the medium to be revelatory — the feeling of being able to inhabit physical spaces was a whole new way to understand the biggest stories of the day.We started making a daily visual-first edition of The Times for Snapchat Discover for different reasons; we want to get our work in front of people who may not otherwise read The Times regularly. And we thought that the phone-friendly language of Snapchat — full-bleed images, graphics mixing with photos mixing with videos — was a language we should develop as part of our own mobile evolution.And then we made a major push into audio because we saw a giant opportunity to reinvent our journalism in a medium that is quickly rising in importance. We are living in a world where the mobile phone is dominant, and audio, which doesn’t require your eyes or your hands, is the ultimate mobile medium. We launched The Daily in February, and it immediately became our best push toward rebuilding the daily habit of print reading. It’s really working. The Daily was the top downloaded podcast in Apple podcasts in 2017.We’ve got more to come in 2018, but look for those common threads. We’ll go to places where lots of people are already spending their time and mediums that allow us to help people understand the real world in new ways.Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementWhat are some of your favorite new publishing strategies that you see The Times or other outlets experimenting with?I know some people find push alerts to be intrusive, but I’m fascinated by them. I watch N.B.A. highlights right from my phone’s lock screen: The great Bleacher Report app sends out push alerts with embedded videos of the key moments from the games, often in real time. I never even open the app, but it has totally changed how I watch basketball.I’m also seriously interested in newsletters as a lo-fi way to form a deep relationship with readers. I’m not sure I’ve ever been to the Axios site, but I spend more time with Mike Allen’s newsletter every week than I do with most publishers’ home pages.I don’t know if any media organization has quite cracked the best way to use Amazon’s Alexa on Echos and Google Home, but I have both devices and am closely watching what works.I’ve become intrigued by the trivia game HQ Trivia, which seems to be getting at a burgeoning and widespread desire for shared activities that break you out of your own siloed tech bubble. I tried to get my wife to play, but she thinks it’s creepy and dystopian that everyone opens a phone at once.Finally, streaming TV feels like a new frontier where old rules about length, format and expectations are exploding in real time. When you’re not locked into 30 minutes with commercial breaks, what other conventions can you throw out?AdvertisementWhat is your advice for people who aspire to become reporters? What new digital tools should they start using today?Reporters of the future should master the building blocks of traditional journalism. The coin of the realm, no matter the medium, is the ability to find out new facts and to uncover things that someone doesn’t want you to uncover. If you can get inside the room and explain to people what happened there, and if you can do it quickly and reliably, you’ll become a strong reporter no matter how or where you tell your stories.Technology is so deeply embedded in our lives these days that you can’t be a good reporter without being tech fluent. You will find sources and story ideas on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. You will correspond with sources on encrypted apps like Signal and Telegram.You should start your own newsletter. You’ll want to understand what makes for a good podcast, and what makes for a good video — all the better if you develop skills to make them yourself.Outside your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with in your personal life?I’m on a wellness kick and have been using the Strava app for running and Headspace for meditating. And we’ve jumped on the Instant Pot bandwagon, though I have to say I haven’t yet become quite as obsessed as everyone else. Our tiny kitchen has not quite adapted to its modern new resident.What are some of your favorite podcasts other than The Daily?One of the Daily producers turned me on to an insane podcast called Dissect, where a guy analyzes, at very great length, every song on a Kanye West record. It’s like going to Kanye School, which I didn’t expect to do.I’m enjoying Slow Burn, Slate’s new podcast about what it was like to live through Watergate. I loved Ear Hustle, a sharp and humane series about prison life. And “This American Life,” of course, still offers a master class in storytelling every week.Follow Sam Dolnick on Twitter: @samdolnickA version of this article appears in print on January 4, 2018, on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: Tapping Technology to Shape Journalism’s Future.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

      By CADE METZ and 
    
KEITH COLLINS

JAN. 2, 2018

The woman in the photo seems familiar.She looks like Jennifer Aniston, the “Friends” actress, or Selena Gomez, the child star turned pop singer. But not exactly.She appears to be a celebrity, one of the beautiful people photographed outside a movie premiere or an awards show. And yet, you cannot quite place her.That’s because she’s not real. She was created by a machine.The image is one of the faux celebrity photos generated by software under development at Nvidia, the big-name computer chip maker that is investing heavily in research involving artificial intelligence.At a lab in Finland, a small team of Nvidia researchers recently built a system that can analyze thousands of (real) celebrity snapshots, recognize common patterns, and create new images that look much the same — but are still a little different. The system can also generate realistic images of horses, buses, bicycles, plants and many other common objects.The project is part of a vast and varied effort to build technology that can automatically generate convincing images — or alter existing images in equally convincing ways. The hope is that this technology can significantly accelerate and improve the creation of computer interfaces, games, movies and other media, eventually allowing software to create realistic imagery in moments rather than the hours — if not days — it can now take human developers.In recent years, thanks to a breed of algorithm that can learn tasks by analyzing vast amounts of data, companies like Google and Facebook have built systems that can recognize faces and common objects with an accuracy that rivals the human eye. Now, these and other companies, alongside many of the world’s top academic A.I. labs, are using similar methods to both recognize and create.Nvidia's images can't match the resolution of images produced by a top-of-the-line camera, but when viewed on even the largest smartphones, they are sharp, detailed, and, in many cases, remarkably convincing.For example, look at the two photos below and see if you can figure out which person is real.

          This one is computer-generated


          This one is also computer-generated
● Sorry! This was a trick question. Both images were generated by computers.Like other prominent A.I. researchers, the Nvidia team believes the techniques that drive this project will continue to improve in the months and years to come, generating significantly larger and more complex images.“We think we can push this further, generating not just photos but 3-D images that can be used in computer games and films,” said Jaakko Lehtinen, one of the researchers behind the project.Today, many systems generate images and sounds using a complex algorithm called a neural network. This is a way of identifying patterns in large amounts of data. By identifying common patterns in thousands of car photos, for instance, a neural network can learn to identify a car. But it can also work in the other direction: It can use those patterns to generate its own car photos.As it built a system that generates new celebrity faces, the Nvidia team went a step further in an effort to make them far more believable. It set up two neural networks — one that generated the images and another that tried to determine whether those images were real or fake. These are called generative adversarial networks, or GANs. In essence, one system does its best to fool the other — and the other does its best not to be fooled.“The computer learns to generate these images by playing a cat-and-mouse game against itself,” said Mr. Lehtinen.10 MINUTES8 HOURS16 HOURS1 DAY2 DAYS3 DAYS4 DAYS5 DAYS6 DAYS7 DAYS8 DAYS9 DAYS10 DAYS14 DAYS16 DAYS18 DAYSThis series of images shows the output of Nvidia’s system over the course of 18 days of processing. With their method, called progressive GANs, the Nvidia researchers built a system that begins with low-resolution images and then gradually progresses to higher resolutions. This allows the training to happen more quickly, but it also in a more controlled and stable way. The result: 1024- by 1024-pixel images that are sharp, detailed, and, in many cases, very convincing. Source: NvidiaA second team of Nvidia researchers recently built a system that can automatically alter a street photo taken on a summer’s day so that it looks like a snowy winter scene. Researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, have designed another that learns to convert horses into zebras and Monets into Van Goghs. DeepMind, a London-based A.I. lab owned by Google, is exploring technology that can generate its own videos. And Adobe is fashioning similar machine learning techniques with an eye toward pushing them into products like Photoshop, its popular image design tool.Trained designers and engineers have long used technology like Photoshop and other programs to build realistic images from scratch. This is what movie effects houses do. But it is becoming easier for machines to learn how to generate these images on their own, said Durk Kingma, a researcher at OpenAI, the artificial intelligence lab founded by Tesla chief executive Elon Musk and others, who specializes in this kind of machine learning.“We now have a model that can generate faces that are more diverse and in some ways more realistic than what we could program by hand,” he said, referring to Nvidia’s work in Finland.But new concerns come with the power to create this kind of imagery.With so much attention on fake media these days, we could soon face an even wider range of fabricated images than we do today.“The concern is that these techniques will rise to the point where it becomes very difficult to discern truth from falsity,” said Tim Hwang, who previously oversaw A.I. policy at Google and is now director of the Ethics and Governance of Artificial Intelligence Fund, an effort to fund ethical A.I. research. “You might believe that accelerates problems we already have.”Each of these images took about 18 days for the computers to generate, before reaching a point that the system found them believable. Source: NvidiaThe idea of generative adversarial networks was originally developed in 2014 by a researcher named Ian Goodfellow, while he was a Ph.D. student at the University of Montreal. He dreamed up the idea after an argument at a local bar, and built the first prototype that same night. Now Mr. Goodfellow is a researcher at Google, and his idea is among the most important and widely explored concepts in the rapidly accelerating world of artificial intelligence.Though this kind of photo generation is currently limited to still images, many researchers believe it could expand to videos, games and virtual reality. But Mr. Kingma said this could take years, just because it will require much larger amounts of computing power. That is the primary problem that Nvidia is also working on, along with other chip makers.Researchers are also using a wide range of other machine learning techniques to edit video in more convincing — and sometimes provocative — ways.In August, a group at the University of Washington made headlines when they built a system that could put new words into the mouth of a Barack Obama video. Others, including Pinscreen, a California start-up, and iFlyTek of China, are developing similar techniques using images of President Donald Trump.The results are not completely convincing. But the rapid progress of GANs and other techniques point to a future where it becomes easier for anyone to generate faux images or doctor the real thing. That is cause for real concern among experts like Mr. Hwang.Eliot Higgins, the founder of Bellingcat, an organization that analyzes current events using publicly available images and video, pointed out that fake images are by no means a new problem. In the years since the rise of Photoshop, the onus has been on citizens to approach what they view online with skepticism.But many of us still put a certain amount of trust in photos and videos that we don’t necessarily put in text or word of mouth. Mr. Hwang believes the technology will evolve into a kind of A.I. arms race pitting those trying to deceive against those trying to identify the deception.Mr. Lehtinen downplays the effect his research will have on the spread of misinformation online. But he does say that, as a time goes on, we may have to rethink the very nature of imagery. “We are approaching some fundamental questions,” he said.Advertisement

      By KARL RUSSELL and 
    
LANDON THOMAS JR.

DEC. 31, 2017

The major stock market indexes broke countless records in 2017, rising consistently throughout the year. Investors were heartened by President Trump’s promise to cut taxes and regulations. Strong economic growth around the world and nary a sign of inflation also contributed to investors’ cheery mood.
After falling sharply in the hours after President Trump was elected in November, the stock market quickly reversed course. In January it rose sharply on hopes that Mr. Trump’s promised tax cuts would boost corporate profits. Stocks also were immune to a series of geopolitical disturbances, from tensions with North Korea to investigations into Mr. Trump’s ties with Russia. The markets ended the year on a tear once it became clear that tax cuts would become law.S.& P. 500-stock index2,700Daily closes2,650MAR. 202,600F.B.I. Director James B. Comeyannounces investigation intocollusion with the Russiangovernment by theTrump campaign.2,5502,500+19%IN 20172,4502,400AUG. 8Trump threatens NorthKorea with “fire and fury”2,350MAY 172,300News breaks that Trumphad asked Mr. Comey to drop theinvestigation of Michael FlynnJAN. 20Inauguration2,200JFMAMJJASOND2,700S.& P. 500-stock indexDaily closes2,650JAN. 20MAR. 20AUG. 8+19%IN 20172,600TrumpinauguratedF.B.I. Director James B.Comey announces investigationinto collusion with the Russiangovernment by the Trumpcampaign.Trump threatensNorth Koreawith “fire andfury”2,5502,5002,4502,4002,350MAY 17DEC. 12,300News breaks that Trumphad asked Mr. Comey to drop theinvestigation of Michael FlynnMr. Flynnpleads guilty tolying to the F.B.I.2,2502,200JFMAMJJASOND2,700S.& P. 500-stock indexDaily closes2,650JAN. 20MAR. 20AUG. 8+19%IN 20172,600TrumpinauguratedF.B.I. Director James B.Comey announces investigationinto collusion with the Russiangovernment by the Trumpcampaign.Trump threatensNorth Korea with“fire and fury”2,5502,5002,4502,4002,350MAY 17DEC. 12,300News breaks that Trumphad asked Mr. Comey to drop theinvestigation of Michael FlynnMr. Flynnpleads guilty tolying to the F.B.I.2,2502,200JFMAMJJASONDAt over 3,000 days and counting, this bull market has been one of the longest on record. It started in March 2009, fueled by the belief that aggressive policies by the Federal Reserve would halt the stock market’s fall. It’s been rising ever since, propelled by gushers of money looking for rich returns. According to data from Edward Yardeni, the current eight-year run trails only the boom from 1987 to 2000.3,000S.& P. 500-stock indexScale is logarithmicto show comparablepercentage changes1,00023,219days1+295%4,494days100+582%51,839daysLongestbull markets+229%10432,248days2,954days+126%+263%11930194019501960197019801990200020103,0001,0002S.& P. 500-stock index63,219days1,826daysScale is logarithmic to showcomparable percentage changes+295%1+102%4,494days100+582%51,839days42,248days+229%Longest bull markets+126%3102,954days+263%11930194019501960197019801990200020103,0001,0002S.& P. 500-stock index63,219days1,826daysScale is logarithmic to showcomparable percentage changes+295%1+102%4,494days100+582%51,839days42,248days+229%Longest bull markets+126%3102,954days+263%1193019401950196019701980199020002010Technology was the top performing part of the stock market in 2017, up 34 percent. But it wasn’t the giant, household-name companies like Google and Facebook at the top of the list, even though those companies had banner years. Instead, it was slightly smaller — but even faster growing — companies, including the electronic-payments company PayPal and the interactive gaming company Activision Blizzard.S.& P. 500 sectors 2017 percentage changeTop performers within the top three sectorsInformation technology+34.3%Micron Technology+90.7PayPal Holdings+87.9Nvidia+84.9Activision Blizzard+75.6Lam Research+75.5Health care+26.4Align Technology+135.6Vertex Pharma.+105.2Centene+82.1Intuitive Surgical+74.5Illumina+69.9Materials+24.5FMC+68.0Avery Dennison+64.6Sherwin-Williams+53.7Albemarle+49.2Freeport-McMoRan+46.1Industrials+23.8Financials+20.9Consumer discretionary+15.0Utilities+11.0Consumer staples+10.4Real estate+6.8Energy–5.7%Telecommunication services–11.9S.& P. 500 sectors 2017 percentage changeTop performers within the top three sectorsInformation technology+34.3%Micron Technology+90.7PayPal Holdings+87.9Nvidia+84.9Activision Blizzard+75.6Lam Research+75.5Health care+26.4Align Technology+135.6Vertex Pharmaceuticals+105.2Centene+82.1Intuitive Surgical+74.5Illumina+69.9Materials+24.5FMC+68.0Avery Dennison+64.6Sherwin-Williams+53.7Albemarle+49.2Freeport-McMoRan+46.1Industrials+23.8Financials+20.9Consumer discretionary+15.0Utilities+11.0Consumer staples+10.4Real estate+6.8Energy–5.7%Telecommunication services–11.9The strong markets have pushed stock valuations to dizzying heights. Some investors worry that a correction is coming. Others fret that the low readings on the VIX index, which measures expectations about upcoming market volatility, mean that investors are complacent about possible risks in the market.25S.& P. 500price-to-earnings ratio2015105Plotted weekly0’07’09’11’13’15’17807060CBOE index of volatility(VIX)50403020100’07’09’11’13’15’172580CBOE Volatility Index(VIX)7020605015401030S.& P. 500price-to-earnings ratio20510Plotted weekly00’07’09’11’13’15’17’07’09’11’13’15’17AdvertisementBy CHRISTINE HAUSER and ERNESTO LONDOÑOJAN. 1, 2018
The families had striking similarities: They lived in prosperous suburbs, had children in college, enjoyed exploring other cultures and were strongly involved in Jewish causes.Both families — the Steinbergs, a family of five from Scarsdale, N.Y., and the Weisses, a family of four from Belleair, Fla. — were killed on Sunday when the single-engine turboprop they were traveling in crashed into a hill in Costa Rica shortly after takeoff. An American tour guide also died, as did two Costa Rican crew members.The crash of the plane, a Cessna 208B Caravan traveling from Punta Islita, on the Pacific Coast, to San José, the capital, was the deadliest in Costa Rica since 1990.“It is a devastating loss to their families and to our congregation,” said Rabbi Jacob Luski of Congregation B’nai Israel of St. Petersburg, Fla., who in a phone interview on Monday confirmed the deaths of husband and wife Mitchell Weiss, 52, and Leslie L. Weiss, 50; their daughter, Hannah M. Weiss, 19; and their son, Ari M. Weiss, 16.Advertisement“They were together and they all perished,” he said. “It is a terrible tragedy.”Leslie Weiss was a neonatal pediatrician, and Mitchell Weiss was the head of interventional radiology, both at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. “Their lives and medical skills have touched so many in and around our community, and we are forever grateful to them,” Kris Hoce, the hospital’s president, said in a statement mourning their deaths.AdvertisementHannah and Ari were both involved in the southeastern chapter of United Synagogue Youth, a Conservative Jewish organization that promotes engagement with Israel, and that announced their deaths in a Facebook post.Hannah was a student at List College, the undergraduate school of the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York City, under a program that allows students to pursue two bachelor’s degrees simultaneously, in coordination with Columbia University.“Hannah was a wonderful student, great friend, strong leader and a beloved member of our community,” Shuly R. Schwartz, the dean of List College, said in a statement. “Above all, she was deeply passionate about the environment.”In a telephone interview, Dr. Schwartz said that Hannah was in her second year at the college and had not yet declared a major, although she was involved in environmental sustainability studies and Jewish thought and ethics.In telephone interviews, David and Alexis Lerner, resident directors of a dormitory at the college who knew Hannah, said she had successfully petitioned the school to install bins and freezers for residents to collect materials for composting.“She is brave, and bold,” Ms. Lerner said. “She had a lot of a clear perspective on the role of a university for young people. She sort of saw it in a big picture. She was certainly a leader.”The Weisses had a piano in their home, and Hannah and Ari took music lessons from Steve Rosicky, a local musician. They both played the ukulele and the guitar, and Ari had recently taken up songwriting. Ari hoped to create a full album; they had three songs mostly finished before Ari left for Costa Rica, Mr. Rosicky said.Advertisement“He was so special to me,” Mr. Rosicky said. “His songs were so honest and so true.”In Scarsdale, an affluent suburb in Westchester County, just north of New York City, the Westchester Reform Temple learned on Sunday of the deaths of husband and wife Bruce M. Steinberg, 50, and Irene G. Steinberg, 51; and their sons, Zachary J. Steinberg, 19; William A. Steinberg, 18; and Matthew B. Steinberg, 13. Zachary was a student at Johns Hopkins University, and William at the University of Pennsylvania.The family supported a nonprofit organization, Seeds of Peace, that trains prospective leaders from around the world in conflict resolution.Rebecca Gorman, who attended Seeds of Peace camps in Maine with William Steinberg, said his world travels and loving family had given him confidence and wisdom beyond his years, whether navigating conversations among children from countries in conflict or just listening to friends.“Whenever he would speak, it left you with an impression for the rest of the day,” said Ms. Gorman, who is 19. “It’s just hard to accept that more people didn’t get to see what a wonderful young man he was.”Leslie Adelson Lewin, the executive director of Seeds of Peace, said that William had “ambitions for a political career that were formed at Seeds of Peace” and that his mother was especially passionate about the organization because she had a background in social work.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The family loved music, and rock ’n’ roll was the theme of a surprise birthday party the family gave for Bruce, who turned 50 on Nov. 30. Their youngest son, who was in the eighth grade, was an accomplished musician known for his singing.“They were an incredibly tight-knit family who just loved to explore, loved to live life,” said Paul Rubin, a family friend. “They traveled extensively, but also gave their time extensively.”The 10th passenger on the plane was Amanda R. Geissler, 33, who was in her first year as a guide for Backroads, which has provided “active travel” experiences in Costa Rica for more than 25 years. Her LinkedIn profile said she was based in Salt Lake City and had received undergraduate and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Wisconsin.“Amanda’s passion and ability to genuinely connect with people, in addition to her leadership, made her a rising star at Backroads,” the company said in a statement on Monday.The names of the crew members have not been formally released, but Laura Chinchilla, a former president of Costa Rica, said her cousin Juan Manuel Retana was the pilot.AdvertisementIt was too soon to tell whether the crash would affect the tourism boom in Costa Rica, which has long enjoyed a reputation as one of the most peaceful countries in Latin America — it has no standing army — and as a place endowed with exceptional biodiversity. The tiny Central American nation of 4.8 million received nearly three million visitors in 2016, a record for the country.It was the second crash in four months to involve Nature Air, which bills itself as an eco-conscious carrier that purchases offsets to compensate for its carbon emissions.The earlier crash, on Sept. 5, killed a Costa Rican woman and an American man. Four other people survived that crash, which remains under investigation.Enio Cubillo Araya, the director general of Costa Rica’s civil aviation agency, said in a phone interview that the two crashes appeared to have been isolated episodes and not symptomatic of a deeper problem. Nature Air, founded in 1990, did not respond to phone and email messages requesting comment.“The country and the aviation industry are in mourning,” Mr. Cubillo said. “The government of Costa Rica stands in solidarity with the relatives of those who lost their loved ones during this holiday.”He said that investigators did not yet know the cause of the crash but that early theories include mechanical malfunction, human error and the possibility that a raft of wind, common in the area this time of year, may have destabilized the small plane. Weather and visibility were ideal, he added.Idier Porras Guzmán, 51, who lives in a tiny hamlet by the beach near Nandayure, on the country’s northwest coast, said he and his relatives had been celebrating New Year’s Eve when they were startled by a plane flying unusually low overhead.Advertisement“We all noticed it was too low,” he said in a phone interview on Monday. “We said, ‘How weird,’ and then three or four seconds later, we heard a loud thud.”Mr. Porras said he and others staying with him had run toward the sound of the explosion, about 1,000 feet from their modest rental houses. The plane crashed in a hilly area planted with teak, he said.“When we got to the site, the plane was consumed by flames,” said Mr. Porras, who first shared his account with the Costa Rican newspaper La Nación. “It was totally disintegrated. Only part of the tail was visible.”Follow Christine Hauser and Ernesto Londoño: @christineNYT and @londonoe.Russ Buettner contributed reporting from New York, and Arielle Stevenson from Belleair, Fla. Kitty Bennett contributed research.A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: 2 U.S. Families, Lost In Air Crash, Shared A Devotion to Causes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Vows By                     
VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

JAN. 19, 2018
Apache helicopters — the kind of aerial weaponry immortalized in Hollywood tough-guy films such as “Rambo” and “Black Hawk Down” — are among the Army’s most revered killing machines, and those who fly them across enemy skies “have an attack mentality,” said Capt. Daniel Hall, a 30-year-old Apache helicopter pilot based at Fort Bliss, in Texas.“That attack mind-set is shared by the entire Apache community,” Captain Hall said. “It’s a real macho thing.”As he spoke, Captain Hall was flanked by Capt. Vincent Franchino, a 26-year-old fellow Apache pilot who is also stationed at Fort Bliss, where they are both a part of another community: the group of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender soldiers who serve there.“It’s been a bit of a bumpy road for us,” said Captain Franchino, who married Captain Hall on Jan. 13 in the Cadet Chapel at the United States Military Academy in West Point, N.Y., where they are believed to be the first active-duty, same-sex couple to exchange vows at the legendary Army post.AdvertisementThe Rev. Dawn Sangrey, a Unitarian Universalist minister, performed the ceremony before 150 guests, many in Army service uniforms.AdvertisementThe couple, beaming in their own immaculately pressed blue mess uniforms, the most formal threads in the Army’s wardrobe, were celebrated by a saber-arch salute as they departed the chapel.“We’ve experienced everything from people feeling awkward around us to being called faggots while holding hands and walking down the street, stuff like that,” said Captain Franchino, who was born and raised in Stony Point, N.Y., the youngest son of Holly Franchino, a retired pharmacist, and Robert Franchino, a retired sergeant with the Police Department in Clarkstown, N.Y.“But despite what we’ve been through,” Captain Franchino added, “nothing was worse than having served during the ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ years.”The emotions and romantic feelings felt by Captains Hall and Franchino, as well as scores of others from the L.G.B.T. military community, were hamstrung by “don’t ask, don’t tell,” a policy that went into effect in October 1993 under President Bill Clinton; it forbade any homosexual or bisexual member of the military from disclosing his or her sexual orientation or from speaking about any homosexual relationships, including marriages.“Through mutual friends at West Point, we had each learned the other was gay, and though we were attracted to one another, we couldn’t say or do anything about it,” said Captain Hall, who grew up in Chattanooga, Tenn., the only son of Kyle Hall, a middle school mathematics teacher, and Stephen Hall, the vice president for nylon polymer strategic development at Koch Industries in Wichita, Kan., where his parents now live.“It’s really frustrating when two people have feelings for each other but are not allowed to act on them,” Captain Hall added. “We were serving under a policy that was telling all of us — perfectly capable soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines — to lie about ourselves.”Captain Franchino said that lying was much better than the alternative.“We couldn’t tell the truth for fear of what would happen to us,” he said. “So we put it in our minds that we were never going to say we were gay, we were never going to get made fun of, and we were certainly never going to get kicked out of the Army.”AdvertisementThe first time they met was on a Friday afternoon at West Point in August 2009.Captain Franchino was taking part in an annual tradition during Ring Weekend in which freshmen (known as plebes) get a chance to retaliate against their often overbearing senior cadets (known as firsties) by doing all they can to delay the departure of those seniors, who are trying to hurry home after the ceremony to spend a weekend with their families.It took Captain Hall, swarmed by plebes, a full hour to cross the final 100 yards to his room. When he got there, he had no idea that four more plebes were waiting patiently to jump out of hiding spots in the room in an effort to scare him and further delay his weekend. After the first three plebes had departed, Captain Hall assumed he was alone, but as he prepared to leave, he was ambushed by Captain Franchino, who had been hiding under the bed.“When I came out from under the bed, Dan was so startled, he jumped over his desk,” Captain Franchino said, laughing.Captain Hall said he remembered thinking, “This guy has a lot of guts, and he’s kind of cute too.”They went their separate ways, though neither veered too far from the other’s line of vision. In January 2010, they selected each other as a partner in a mentorship program that allowed seniors to offer instruction to freshmen who were following similar career paths.By April of that year, it was clear to their fellow cadets that a spark had been ignited, but under the rules, there could be no flame.“You could tell that there was this chemistry, this unspoken communication between them,” said Capt. Owen Waits, a close friend to both who was a senior cadet at that time and later married Captain Hall’s sister, Lauren.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It was kind of strange because you knew that there was this whole aspect of their feelings and personalities that were being suppressed,” Captain Waits said. “But that’s just the way it was.”AdvertisementBut in September 2011, it was that way no longer. Congress repealed “don’t ask, don’t tell,” and Captains Hall and Franchino were soon celebrating their new sense of freedom.“Vinny came out with a big splash to everyone on Facebook, posting all of these pictures of himself and Dan kissing and hugging, and I thought it was so brave that he did that,” said Captain Franchino’s uncle, Charlie Franchino, of Brooklyn, who is also in a same-sex marriage and was often the shoulder that his nephew leaned on when struggling to keep his sexuality a secret.Mr. Franchino said he also stepped in to “help ease the shock that was initially felt by Vinny’s parents.”“My brother’s a cop, he’s a tough guy, and so I knew it wasn’t going to be easy for him and his wife to handle this news,” Mr. Franchino said. “But whatever initial shock they had, they got over it quickly and immediately embraced Dan.”That evidence was on display during the couple’s reception at the elegant Skylands Manor in Ringwood, N.J., a 44-room Tudor revival mansion perched high in the heavily wooded Ramapo Mountains along a stretch of long and winding country roads snaking through Ringwood State Park.“Speaking from my heart, I love Dan,” Holly Franchino said during the cocktail hour.Her husband, Robert Franchino, added of their new son-in-law: “They are two peas in a pod.”“You can see the chemistry between them,” he added. “Without a doubt, Vinny is absolutely a happier person today than he was before he met Dan.”The relationship has not always been so accepted or in tune, including beginning with their first date in February 2012 in Washington.Advertisement“That’s where some guy called us both faggots,” Captain Franchino said.But they had a bigger problem to deal with, as Captain Hall, then in flight school at Fort Rucker, in Alabama, learned he was being deployed to South Korea, along with his Boeing AH-64 Apache, a four-blade, twin-turboshaft attack helicopter equipped with a 30-millimeter M230 chain gun, as well as Hellfire missiles and Hydra Rocket Pods.Upon hearing the news, Captain Franchino was not feeling quite as macho as Captain Hall. Just five months removed from “don’t ask, don’t tell,” the young soldier was on edge.“I was so worried about Dan, it was really nerve-racking,” Captain Franchino recalled. “At the time, there was just too much pressure involved, we were both very nervous about the long-distance thing, so we both thought it was best to just step away.”They began dating other people but had a change of heart and got back together in November of that year.Three years later, their relationship was on more solid ground, so Captain Franchino was in a better place emotionally to hear the news that Captain Hall was being deployed to Kuwait.A year after that, Captain Hall was flying his Apache above war-torn Iraq.“We’ve just grown accustomed to being apart at times,” said Captain Franchino, who spent all of 2017 deployed in Germany and several countries in Eastern Europe. “It’s a part of who we are, a part of what we do, so we simply accept it.”Captain Hall, who said he plans on “leaving the Army after spring,” also said that his military stint, especially the time he spent in the cockpits of Apache helicopters, “has brought a lot of excitement to my life, and so has Vinny.”But when pressed, Captain Hall refused to say which of the two has brought him more excitement.“Don’t ask,” he said with a wink and a smile. “I won’t tell.”On This DayWhen Jan. 13, 2018Where The Cadet Chapel at the United States Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.The Saber Arch Platoon There were 34 military officers in attendance, and as the couple walked out of the chapel, eight of them split into two columns and raised their swords, forming a military arch for the couple, who now will go by Franchino-Hall.Only Him for Me The first dance was to “La Vie En Rose” by Edith Piaf, performed by Violette de Bartillat and the La Vie En Rose Band, a French/jazz band.Cutting Calories The wedding cake was cut using Captain Hall’s officer saber, a West Point graduation gift from his maternal grandparents.Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page ST10 of the New York edition with the headline: For Love of Country, and Each Other.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
New York Today By                     
 ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE
 
JAN. 19, 2018
Updated, 11:30 a.m.Good morning on this sunny Friday.The Women’s March returns this weekend.The event will take place on Saturday in Washington, New York and hundreds of other places.In the city, participants assemble at 11 a.m. at 71st Street and Columbus Avenue. The rally starts at 11:30 a.m., and the march steps off at 1 p.m., filing down Central Park West, wrapping around Columbus Circle and then proceeding down Sixth Avenue toward Bryant Park.Last year’s rally in Washington drew a crowd three times the size of the audience at President Trump’s inauguration, according to crowd counting experts, and in New York, hundreds of thousands of demonstrators converged on Fifth Avenue.As of this morning, more than 85,000 people had registered to march. (Registering online is not required, but the numbers are used by officials for planning purposes.)AdvertisementWe checked in with local organizers to understand the focus of this year’s march.“Last year was about women standing together and realizing that they’re not alone,” said Katherine Siemionko, founder of the Women’s March Alliance, the nonprofit that organized the New York City rally.Advertisement“The message this year is marching to action: March, register, vote. You’re marching, making sure you’re registered to vote, and getting to the polls.”We asked for participants in New York and beyond to tell us what they were marching for.Sarah Steinhardt, an organizer from the Women’s March Alliance, said she was marching in New York City because there has not been enough change in the past year. When asked how she defines “change,” she told us: “Seeing our elected officials advocating for laws that protect women and empower women.”Stephanie Bazirjian, 62, a New York City resident, is marching here “for the DACA people, for minorities, for hard-working immigrants, for women.”Ayesha Hamilton, 45, a New Jersey resident who plans to March in Morristown, said, “I march because the women’s movement needs momentum and energy, because our daughters and their daughters should not have to worry about equal pay or assault in the workplace.”Here’s what else is happening:Hello, weekend.You look great.We’ll be graced with sunshine and blue skies for the next few days. Today will be chilly, but temperatures should climb to the 50s on Saturday with highs in the 40s on Sunday.• Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s major proposal to charge drivers in Manhattan’s busiest parts would make New York City the first in the U.S. with a pay-to-drive plan. [New York Times]• New York City has committed $1 billion to protect the city’s water system, which moves over a billion gallons a day, nearly all of it unfiltered. [New York Times]Advertisement• Amazon has shrunk the list of cities that could potentially be the second home of the retail giant, which still includes both Newark and New York City. [New York Times]• On his first night out as a private citizen, the former governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie, decided to catch the popular Broadway show by his idol and fellow New Jerseyan, Bruce Springsteen. [New York Times]• Governor Cuomo laid out multiple options in a 37-page report of how to thwart the president’s new federal tax plan, which is proving to be a complicated task. [New York Times]• A data breach at a company that develops New York State’s math exams for third through eighth grades allowed an unauthorized user to gain access to information of about 52 students. [New York Times]• A city official has sued the city, claiming that her demotion was motivated by discrimination, after a subordinate was given a “reward” for allegedly protecting Mayor Bill de Blasio when he was under investigation. [New York Times]• The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey revealed the steps it had first taken to prevent a recurrence of the chaos at Kennedy Airport following a winter storm. [New York Times]• After a 12-year legal battle, a Connecticut court decided that the state was in fact fulfilling its constitutional obligation to its public school students. [New York Times]• An assistant to an executive at Goldman Sachs has stolen and sold over 100 bottles of his boss’s rare wine, according to a federal indictment. [New York Times]Advertisement• After cases of heating outages and other weather-related issues at public housing developments, Mayor de Blasio said he would commit $13 million to improve the New York City Housing Authority’s response to crisis. [New York Post]• Officials in Brooklyn are backing a bill that would take guns away from people who are found by the court to be likely of harming themselves or others. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]• Andre Twendele survived a firing squad and years in refugee camp. He won a visa and left his wife in the camp to prepare for her arrival in America. Then Trump was elected. [New York Times and WNYC]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Special Trip for Hair Clips”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• “Art Therapy at Sing Sing Prison,” a talk by Jane Marks Hart, an art therapist, at the School of Visual Arts. 6:30 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P. here]• “You Say You Want a Revolution: Remembering the ’60s,” an exhibition on 1960s culture and today’s environment of activism, opens with a reception at the New York Public Library in Midtown. 7 p.m. [Free, register here]• “Ask a Midwesterner,” a stand-up show by the Midwestern comedian Emily Winter, at Countdown Theater in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. 8:30 p.m. [$10 suggested donation]• Nets host Heat, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks at Jazz, 10:30 p.m. (MSG).• Watch “The New York Times Close Up,” featuring The Times’s Kwame Opam and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV.• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Feb. 12.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.AdvertisementSaturday • “Wild Medicine in the Tropics,” a monthlong exhibition highlighting the healing power of exotic plants, opens at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. [Prices vary]• The artist Borja González performs “Dreams of Sand,” a nonverbal story about two people that Mr. González tells using sand, at Flushing Town Hall in Queens. 2:15 p.m. [$14, tickets here]• VoteRunLead, a nonpartisan nonprofit that trains women to run for office, hosts a post-Women’s March celebration with speakers, advocacy workshops, a dance party and more at Helen Mills Event Space and Theater in Chelsea. 4 p.m. [Free]• Don your gowns and Venetian masks for “Midnight at the Masquerade,” an interactive murder mystery dinner show at St. George Theatre on Staten Island. 7:30 p.m. [$100]• Devils at Flyers, 1 p.m. (MSG+). Avalanche host Rangers, 3 p.m. (MSG). Islanders at Blackhawks, 8:30 p.m. (MSG+).Sunday• Take advantage of the somewhat warmer weather on a guided run with New York Road Runners, through parks in the Bronx, Queens, Staten Island or Brooklyn. 9 a.m. [Free]• Children can rock out to the music of the Grateful Dead during a family-friendly concert at Brooklyn Bowl in Williamsburg. 11:30 a.m. [$12]• The pianist Seymour Bernstein plays Schubert, Schumann and others in “Reintroducing Seymour,” a concert with members of the Musica Viva NY chamber choir, at All Souls Church on the Upper East Side. 2 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• The New York Jewish Film Festival, hosted by the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the Jewish Museum, continues at Walter Reade Theater on the Upper West Side through Tuesday. Times vary. [$15]• Knicks at Lakers, 3:30 p.m. (MSG). Nets at Pistons, 4 p.m. (YES). Rangers at Kings, 10:30 p.m. (MSG).• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.And then, there are the props. Last year, many Women’s March demonstrators wore “pussyhats,” which became the unofficial uniform of the event, and carried “Nasty Woman” signs.(Among many, many others.)Readers shared with us what their signs will say this time around. A sample:“Economic, Racial and Gender Justice for ALL.”— Carole J. Wacey, 51, Queens“Healthcare is a moral obligation of good government.”— George Bohmfalk, 70, Charlotte, N.C.“SHE WON 65,844,610, 62,979,636,” a reference to the popular vote.— Eileen Keenan, 70, BrooklynYou can see more Women’s March artifacts and explore themes that have emerged from the many rallies across the country, at “Collecting the Women’s Marches,” an exhibition opening Saturday at the New-York Historical Society on the Upper West Side.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. AdvertisementFollow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By ANNA GOLDFARBJAN. 18, 2018
Age and time have a funny relationship: Sure, they both move in the same direction, but the older we get, the more inverse that relationship can feel. And as work and family commitments take up a drastically outsize portion of that time, it’s the treasured friendships in our life that often fade.A recent study found that the maximum number of social connections for both men and women occurs around the age of 25. But as young adults settle into careers and prioritize romantic relationships, those social circles rapidly shrink and friendships tend to take a back seat.The impact of that loss can be both social and physiological, as research shows that bonds of friendship are critical to maintaining both physical and emotional health. Not only do strong social ties boost the immune system and increase longevity, but they also decrease the risk of contracting certain chronic illnesses and increase the ability to deal with chronic pain, according to a 2010 report in the Journal of Health and Social Behavior.“In terms of mortality, loneliness is a killer,” said  Andrea Bonior, the author of “The Friendship Fix.”AdvertisementWe don’t have to go out and spend every minute of every day with a rotating cast of friends, Dr. Bonior said. Rather, “It’s about feeling like you are supported in the ways that you want to be supported,” she added, and believing that the connections you do have are nourishing and strong.AdvertisementAn estimated 42.6 million Americans over the age of 45 suffer from chronic loneliness, which significantly raises their risk for premature death, according to a study by AARP. One researcher called the loneliness epidemic a greater health threat than obesity.Most people aren’t aware that friendships are so beneficial: “They think of it as a luxury rather than the fact that it can actually add years to their life,” Dr. Bonior said.The good news is that keeping cherished friendships afloat doesn’t need to be a huge time commitment. There are several things you can do to keep a bond strong even when your to-do list is a mile long.Miriam Kirmayer, a therapist and friendship researcher, suggests being clear about your limits when you’re feeling frenzied.“If there are certain days or weeks where you are going to be less available, giving your friend a heads up can go a long way toward minimizing misunderstandings or conflicts where somebody feels left out or like they’re being ignored,” she said.Tell your friends how long you expect to be off the radar, how to communicate with you best during this time (“I’m drowning in emails; texts are better!”), and when your schedule is expected to go back to normal.You might be booked from dusk until dawn, but without giving your friend context, that phrase “I’m too busy” can feel like a blowoff.Advertisement“When we hear somebody say, ‘I’m too busy,’ we don’t actually know if that is true for just their lives at this time, or if that’s their way of not really valuing us or wanting to spend time with us,” said Shasta Nelson, the author of “Frientimacy: How to Deepen Friendships for Lifelong Health and Happiness.”“Therefore, the friendship often just dies, not from lack of anything wrong or anybody even necessarily wanting it to die, but just simply chaotic lives and a lot of distance gets put in there,” she said.Instead of offering vague, blanket statements about your bustling schedule, qualify your busyness: “I’m busy for the rest of the month,” or “I’m tied up until the end of the year.” Then make a counter offer. If you can’t meet face-to-face anytime soon, suggest a phone date, Skype session, or other way to connect so your friend doesn’t feel abandoned.If you find yourself telling longtime pals you’re too snowed under to connect, it’s time to look at how you truly spend your time.“If you can find the time to binge-watch TV shows and check Facebook a million times a day,” said Carlin Flora, the author of “Friendfluence: The Surprising Way Friends Make Us Who We Are,” “you can make time for your friends.”Dr. Bonior agrees: “When you feel like you can’t squeeze in a book club or brunch or happy hour, pedicures or whatever it is, maybe assess a little bit more. Like, ‘O.K., well, how am I spending my time, and might there be a window in some of that time that actually allows for a real phone call or a walk around the block at lunch with one of my co-workers that I really like or whatever it might be?”A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The author Laura Vanderkam credits tracking her time for helping her banish her “I’m too busy” mind-set. In making detailed notes on how she allotted her energy for a year, she found that “the stories I told myself about where my time went weren’t always true.” She suggests using an Excel spreadsheet with half-hour increments to track the day and using the Toggl app, for starters.Once a clearer picture emerges of how one chooses to spend their time, it becomes possible to make positive, thoughtful changes.AdvertisementTailored, thoughtful text messages are a low-effort way to keep up connections when you’re short on time. The key is to share little bits of information about your day that your friend couldn’t glean from your Instagram feed or Snapchat story.Ms. Kirmayer suggests making messages as personal as possible to show somebody you’re thinking about them.“So remembering obviously big life events — things like birthdays are a given — but also maybe smaller things like: They had a doctor’s appointment coming up or you know they were going to have a stressful day at work and kind of checking in to see how it went,” she said. “Even a quick text message can go a long way.”Ask questions that invite reveals (“How was your vacation? How’s your new job going?”) and avoid statements (“I hope you’re having a great day!” or “You’re in my thoughts”), which don’t tend to prompt meaningful back-and-forth exchanges.Having a regular hang with your closest confidants can take the guesswork out of scheduling quality time.“It might sound like you’re not aiming very high if you’re only going to see certain friends once a year, but if you have an annual barbecue or Memorial Day party or something, where it’s kind of a guarantee you’ll see certain friends,” Ms. Flora said, “that’s actually much better than kind of leaving it up to two people haggling over schedules.”Another idea is multitask to combine your errands with some valuable BFF facetime. Ask a friend to come to your favorite spin class, join your book club or accompany you to a volunteer gig.“The more things you can do together, potentially the more often you’ll be able to see each other,” Ms. Kirmayer said. “These repeated interactions are so important for keeping a friendship going.”AdvertisementAnother way to cement longstanding friendships when things are hectic is to go out of your way to attend any milestone events — fly in for the baby shower, attend the 40th birthday party, make an appearance at the retirement party. Just show up. There aren’t too many chances to make an impact in someone’s life, but if you move mountains and carve out time for your friend’s event, it’ll sustain a friendship for a long time.“Once in a while, do a big gesture to those friends who you really, really care about and then that will kind of power the friendship for a while, even if you’re too busy to see each other,” Ms. Flora said. Being that person who comes through will “make that person feel loved and taken care of even if you’re not in constant contact.”Ms. Nelson also suggests being aware of the three areas to measure and evaluate a functional friendship. The first area is positivity: laughter, affirmation, gratitude and any acts of service. The second is consistency, or having interactions on a continual basis, which makes people feel safe and close to each other. The third is vulnerability, which is the revealing and the sharing of our lives.“Any relationship that doesn’t have those three things isn’t a healthy friendship,” Ms. Nelson said. If you’re noticing a cooling with a friend, usually one of these areas needs special consideration.Knowing what makes a friendship tick is important because it allows us to be more effective, especially when time is in short supply. “Obviously we wouldn’t want a friendship to live on text messages, but it can certainly survive hectic times if we know where to put our energy,” Ms. Nelson said.While the energy expended to keep contact going may not always be equal, it’s important to be mindful of the attempts your friends make to connect. Reach out to nip resentment in the bud.“If one person is consistently or chronically putting in more effort, issues can come up,” Ms. Kirmayer said. “Let your friend know that it means so much to you that they’re checking in so often and that you really appreciate it.”She also recommends piping up if the balance feels off: “If you want them to kind of tone it down a little bit because you’re not able to respond all the time, you can say you feel really bad that you’re not able to get back to them all the time.” Addressing friends’ bids for attention can mean the difference between having a dear friendship flourish or fade during a frantic time.“Most people just want to know they’re loved and thought of,” Ms. Nelson said. “If we can, like, give that validation and affirmation rather than just dismissing and saying we’re too busy, if we can kind of combine those things, most people understand and will still feel loved during that time.”Anna Goldfarb is a freelance writer and author of the humor memoir, “Clearly, I Didn’t Think This Through.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

 Eric Asimov
 

THE POUR
JAN. 16, 2018
JORDAN, Ontario — Though his wines are found in many natural wine bars around the world, please do not call François Morissette a natural winemaker. And though Pearl Morissette, his estate near this small town on the Niagara Peninsula, produces wines that are luminous and inspiring, it’s better not to call him a winemaker at all.He prefers the term vigneron, a French word without English equivalent, referring to a person who guides the grapes along their journey from vine to bottle. Indeed, shepherding is how Mr. Morissette sees his job, not so much manufacturing wine as helping the grapes realize their destiny.Sometimes a wine never gets there. A 2009 chardonnay, one of Pearl Morissette’s early vintages, is still resting in the winery, unsold. Mr. Morissette judged the wine to be too tight and unyielding, and did not want to release it.“It was telling us to go away,” he said. “Only recently has it become inviting.”More often, though, the wines are captivating. The lineup includes savory, textured chardonnays; cabernet francs of uncommon depth and purity; fresh, joyous gamays and pinot noirs that can vary from a pretty, floral 2011 that is delicious right now to a spicy, smoky 2012 that manages to be both brawny and elegant. Like the ’09 chardonnay, it has not yet been released.AdvertisementMany Americans may be surprised by the idea of any vignerons like Mr. Morissette working in Canada. Many think Ontario is simply too cold for making fine wine, though they might associate the region with ice wine, a rare delicacy made from grapes that have frozen on the vine, resulting in minute quantities of lusciously sweet, concentrated nectar.AdvertisementOntario is among the world’s leading sources for ice wine, with Inniskillin perhaps the most esteemed producer. But on the Niagara Peninsula, as the isthmus between the southern shore of Lake Ontario and the northern shore of Lake Erie is called, and particularly along the Niagara Escarpment, an east-to-west spine of dolomitic limestone that veers past Lake Ontario, the winemakers would like it known that ice wine is the least of it.“Ice wine is the biggest misconception,” said Paul Pender, the director of viticulture and winemaking at Tawse Winery in the aptly named Vineland, Ontario. “It’s the cold, frigid North. People don’t think we can ripen grapes.”In fact, grapes ripen here beautifully. The Niagara Peninsula is more than hospitable to cool-climate varieties like riesling, chardonnay and pinot noir. Surprisingly, grapes that require a longer growing season, like cabernet franc, also make exceptional wines.Tawse, one of a handful of top Peninsula producers, makes lively, elegant pinot noirs; tangy, minerally chardonnays and moderately sweet rieslings that are superbly balanced. Thomas Bachelder, who also produces wine in Oregon and Burgundy, makes small lots of exquisite Niagara chardonnay and pinot noir. And Norman Hardie makes graceful chardonnays and pinot noirs that would seem almost fragile if not for their cohesive, tensile strength.Mr. Hardie’s Niagara wines are excellent, but his best wines, with even more depth and character, come from vineyard sites in Prince Edward County, a more precarious region on the north side of Lake Ontario, where a thumb of calcareous limestone, like the bedrock in Burgundy, juts into the lake.On the Niagara Peninsula to the south, vineyards can survive the occasional blast of cold Arctic air because Lake Ontario, which is exceptionally deep, retains heat and warms the winds. If the vines are too far south of the lake, however, the effect is lost and vines cannot survive. In the summer, the cool waters temper the heat, creating a long, moderate growing season.The summer heat in Prince Edward County is likewise moderated by the lake. But in the winter the cold winds hit the region directly. Growers are forced to take the costly, labor-intensive step of burying their vines in the warm earth so they can survive.
                A celebration of Canadian cuisine, from its indigenous chefs to its famous butter tarts and Caesars.            “I knew it would be extra work, but it is worth it because the calcareous limestone soils are so incredible,” said Mr. Hardie, who planted his first vines there in 2003. The payoff, for him, is wines that are both subtle and expressive.AdvertisementBeyond the small group of top producers, a lot of wine is made on the Niagara Peninsula. Much of it, alas, is workmanlike stuff to sell to the many tourists who come in the summer to visit the lake and Niagara Falls.“Producing plonk for Niagara bus tours, that’s the biggest problem, not the cold,” Mr. Bachelder said.Mr. Morissette, whose wines are both idiosyncratic and remarkable, never imagined he would be making wine on the Niagara Peninsula. He grew up south of Montreal, “in one of the worst places in the world, a suburb,” he said. His family did not drink wine, but he was inspired by novels and old French movies in which joyful, witty scenes set around meals always seemed to include wine.After traveling around Europe and spending several years in New York, he returned to Montreal, where he learned to be a sommelier at Laloux, a longtime bistro with an excellent wine list. There he was introduced to the Beaujolais of Marcel Lapierre, the Sancerres of Vatan and Cotat, the Cornas of Clape and the Hermitage of Chave.“I call these wines my liquid mentors,” he said.Tired of restaurants, he found work in Burgundy with Frédéric Mugnier at Domaine Jacques-Frédéric Mugnier, known best for its ethereal Chambolle-Musignys, just as Mr. Mugnier was taking charge full time. He also worked with Christian Gouges of Domaine Henri Gouges, which makes austere, long-lived Nuits-St.-Georges.25 MILESCANADATorontoLakeOntarioontarioHamiltonSt. CatharinesNiagara FallsPearl MorissetteBuffaloLake ErieNEW YORKJAN. 16, 2018
Mr. Morissette married, had children and learned about farming, working in the cellar and producing wines that were expressive, uncompromising and long-lived. Soon, without hope of establishing his own estate in Burgundy, he was ready for another challenge.By chance, he had met Mel Pearl, a Toronto developer who was ready and willing to finance a project. And while Mr. Morissette was not considering moving back to Canada, he changed his mind after tasting a pinot noir made by Mr. Bachelder from Le Clos Jordanne, a now defunct Niagara producer.AdvertisementInspired, Mr. Morissette moved to the Niagara Peninsula in 2007 with marching orders from Mr. Pearl to do as he thought best. First, they bought a vineyard where a layer of loam sits over bedrock of dolomitic limestone. In 2008, they bought another that, unusually for Niagara, sits over a heavy gravel bed, as in Bordeaux.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“My goal was never to do Burgundy,” he said as we tasted in the winery. “It was to see what Jordan could do.”While Mr. Morissette rejects the label of natural winemaker, he embraces the classic, traditional methods of frugal farmers, who for centuries honed an innate, practical wisdom based on keen observation and a horror of waste.“I wanted to learn the old methods before they disappeared,” he said of his time in Europe.Many who embrace current ideas that emphasize vineyard bedrock, and its influence on the aromas and flavors in the wine, may be surprised that Mr. Morissette rejects that framework.“I care a lot more about soil and fungi and bacteria than I do about rocks,” he said. “Here, we have extraordinary soils in terms of the intact life.”Even more important, he said, is the effect of the climate, which can be as cool as Chablis one year and as hot and damp as North Carolina the next.In the winery, he collaborates with Svetlana Atcheva, a former sommelier in Toronto who found the Pearl Morissette wines so inspiring that she now works there. She is a sort of alter ego to Mr. Morissette, and they engage in a constant dialogue, questioning and debating each wine as it matures.The wines — which age in various vessels, including small barrels, large casks, cement eggs and ceramic amphorae — have a vibrant life force that is felt rather than tasted. His chardonnays tend to be rich rather than lean, while the cabernet francs are pure, structured and lovely. His rieslings are bone dry and age-worthy. Pinot noir, he said, remains a code that he has not yet cracked to his satisfaction.Mr. Morissette is deeply aware of the advantages he has with his partner, Mr. Pearl, whom he says has never wavered in his commitment to Mr. Morissette’s vision.Advertisement“It’s presumptuous to think you could do this without money,” Mr. Morissette said. “We’ve done in 10 years what would have taken a generation or two because we’re throwing money at it.”The rewards are an uncommon sort of wines, whether from Ontario or anywhere else.“There’s nothing natural about what we do,” he said. “But we are committed to classicism. If you don’t tamper with a wine and live with its moods, it will bring you to a place you couldn’t anticipate.”Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Cool-Climate Wines of Beauty.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAN BILEFSKYJAN. 16, 2018
MANIWAKI, Quebec — When the Algonquin chef Cezin Nottaway was 5 years old, her mother taught her how to kill and skin a beaver with her bare hands. The little girl also learned how to snare a rabbit and to draw a moose out of the forest by emulating its haunting grunt.“We were using local ingredients long before it became fashionable,” Ms. Nottaway, 38, said in her log-cabin kitchen on the Kitigan Zibi reserve, near this town about 85 miles north of Ottawa.Here, she prepares dishes like smoked roast moose with tea and onions for weddings, wakes and charity events. Her company, Wawatay Catering, has fed elementary school students, a group of judges and even the former Canadian prime minister Joe Clark.Ms. Nottaway, who took her company’s name from the Algonquin word for northern lights, is part of a new generation of Canadian chefs who are reclaiming and popularizing indigenous foods as part of a growing culinary affirmation of identity.Advertisement“Embracing this cuisine is a form of taking back what is ours,” she said.That renewed interest comes at a time when Canada is trying to reconcile with its troubled colonial past. Among other abuses, government and church authorities deprived indigenous children of their native dishes at the “residential schools” that were created to assimilate them. The government also restricted access to food in order to clear people from land so it could be developed.The chef Cezin Nottaway is excavating the recipes of her grandmothers to help put indigenous cuisine back on the map.In September, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau acknowledged the nation’s past “humiliation, neglect and abuse” of indigenous people, and vowed at the United Nations to improve the lives of the country’s 1.4 million indigenous citizens. The effort, however belated, has accompanied a renewed appreciation of indigenous culture, including a rich food tradition that stretches back centuries.AdvertisementThat tradition is resurfacing all over. Starting this summer, Rich Francis, an indigenous chef who finished in third place on “Top Chef Canada” in 2014, will host “Red Chef Revival,” a new series on YouTube that will explore, among other subjects, the roots of indigenous cooking.There are indigenous food trucks in British Columbia, cooking courses in Ottawa and new restaurants and cafes in Toronto, including Ku-kum Kitchen and NishDish, which serves plates like dandelion-cranberry salad. Ms. Nottaway served smoked char chowder to a crowd of thousands on Parliament Hill in Ottawa during Canada’s 150th birthday celebrations last year.“Because of the political reconciliation, there is a culinary reconciliation and renaissance,” the Quebec chef Jean Paul Grappe said.At 75, this eminence grise of Canadian cooking, an early champion of indigenous cuisine, is traveling around the province teaching young chefs reared in the age of Twitter how to use the techniques of their ancestors — such as covering a partridge in clay and simmering it for eight hours on top of hot stones in the ground.Ms. Nottaway, who also goes by her French-Canadian name, Marie-Cecile, is a member of the Algonquin nation, one of the 11 indigenous groups in Quebec whose people lived here long before European settlers arrived in the 17th century.Every week, receive a handpicked selection of news and opinion plus exclusive commentary from New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After decades in which these communities have grappled with discrimination, poverty, gambling, suicide and alcoholism, Ms. Nottaway sees her embrace of traditional cooking techniques as nothing less than “decolonizing myself.”Advertisement“This is the food I grew up on,” she said. “They took away our land, our culture, our language, and I am fighting to bring it back with my food.”The plucky, charismatic chef, who speaks three languages (English, French and Algonquin), juggles her catering business with raising her two children, and is as at home with a shotgun as with a frying pan. Her interest in traditional cooking took root when she was a teenager, eschewing trips to McDonald’s in favor of learning Algonquin recipes, passed on orally from her grandmothers.Both her parents had been forcibly sent to residential schools, where, she said, a priest who taught at her father’s school told him to use a metal brush to scrub the brown from his hands, until they bled.To ensure she didn’t lose touch with the land, her grandmothers taught her how to smoke moose meat with rotted wood, and how to kill a rabbit for dinner by pressing an index finger on its heart.“My grandmothers taught me from a young age that I shouldn’t feel sorry for killing animals, since they suffer and are lonely if they are not hunted,” she said as she doled out a stewed rabbit’s head served with wild garlic to three guests. “We respect animals and pray to the animal spirits to show our thanks.”5 MILESquebeccanada107105ManiwakiKitigan Zibi reserveArea of detailquebecMontrealcanadaOttawaontarioNEW YORKTorontoLake Ontario50 MILESJAN. 16, 2018
Ms. Nottaway said her interest in reviving indigenous food was also part of a wider national effort to improve nutrition in those communities, where, she noted, the removal of people from their land has contributed to poorer health conditions, sedentary lifestyles and the proliferation of processed and junk food.Yet even as indigenous cooking is now being celebrated in some quarters, it is drawing criticism from animal rights advocates, who complain that serving the meat of hunted animals breaches Canadian food safety rules prohibiting that in most restaurants.In 2014, the Quebec government proposed a temporary exception to the law that would allow 10 celebrated restaurants, including Au Pied de Cochon and Joe Beef in Montreal, to serve game that had been killed by licensed hunters. But the plan foundered. (In Quebec, indigenous people are allowed to hunt and serve game on reserves.)Protesters have organized petition drives against some indigenous restaurants, including the newly popular Ku-kum Kitchen, which offers seared seal loin and seal tartare. (Serving seal meat is allowed by law, and Ku-kum is supplied by SeaDNA, a seal meat producer, which Canada’s Department of Fisheries and Oceans allows to harvest an annual quota of seal “for meat and oil.”)AdvertisementLate last year a petition calling on Ku-kum to remove seal from its menu gathered more than 6,500 signatures. “The seal slaughters are very violent, cruel, horrific, traumatizing and unnecessary,” the petition said, adding that the seal meat came from a “commercial company” and “had nothing to do with the indigenous hunt.”But a counterpetition asked why that restaurant was being singled out when so many other Toronto restaurants served meat.
                A celebration of Canadian cuisine, from its indigenous chefs to its famous butter tarts and Caesars.            “It’s time to stop the cycle of willfully ignorant Canadians who continue to impose their ill-considered values upon indigenous practices and people,” said the counterpetition, written by Aylan Couchie, a Toronto artist, who is an Anishinaabe from the Nipissing First Nation.Ms. Nottaway contends that hunting is part of her identity, and that the meat she hunts and butchers for her customers is the same she lovingly serves to her own family.“This food is who I am and there is no reason I shouldn’t serve it, even if that means breaking the law,” she said with indignation, noting that mass-produced meat is often treated with additives and chemicals.Still, an even bigger challenge looms for indigenous cooks: identifying and preserving their cuisine.George Lenser, a chef in Montreal who cooked at Joe Beef and is a member of the Nisga’a Nation in northern British Columbia, pointed out that indigenous ingredients like wild berries and traditions like hunting game have long been relabeled “Canadian” or “Québécois.”Advertisement“If you use local ingredients, you are bound to be appropriating indigenous cuisine but may not realize it because it is so absorbed by Canadian culture,” said Mr. Lenser, 27.He and other chefs and scholars are on a mission to excavate and codify recipes and ingredients that disappeared when their ancestors were forcibly assimilated.“When our grandparents and parents were forced to go to residential schools and literally torn away from their families, that knowledge was lost,” he said, noting that he had spent hours badgering his elderly aunts to share their old recipes and secrets, including how to make oolichan grease, or fermented smoked fish fat, which he uses to flavor soups or sauces.Ms. Nottaway considers cooking her best weapon against assimilation, and on a recent Thursday afternoon, she set out to hunt for deer, partridge and beaver in a snow-covered forest on the reservation.It was well below zero. But Ms. Nottaway, dressed in traditional deerskin mukluks and holding her gun, was undeterred as she examined paw tracks and urine in the snow, sniffing out whether a deer was lurking nearby.When her prey proved elusive, she returned home and pulled a moose carcass out of the freezer instead. Before long, there was a feast spread on the table, including thin tranches of smoked moose, roasted and seared with maple syrup, made from the sap of a nearby tree.“It doesn’t get more Canadian than that,” she said with a grin.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Saving an Indigenous Way of Life.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ADAM NAGOURNEY, DAVID E. SANGER and JOHANNA BARRJAN. 13, 2018
An early-morning emergency alert mistakenly warning of an incoming ballistic missile attack was dispatched to cellphones across Hawaii on Saturday, setting off widespread panic in a state that was already on edge because of escalating tensions between the United States and North Korea.The alert, sent by the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency, was revoked 38 minutes after it was issued, prompting confusion over why it was released — and why it took so long to rescind. State officials and residents of a normally tranquil part of the Pacific, as well as tourists swept up in the panic, immediately expressed outrage.“What happened today was totally unacceptable,” said Gov. David Y. Ige. “Many in our community were deeply affected by this. I am sorry for that pain and confusion that anyone might have experienced.”Officials said the alert was the result of human error and not the work of hackers or a foreign government. The mistake occurred during a shift-change drill that takes place three times a day at the emergency command post, according to Richard Rapoza, a spokesman for the agency.Advertisement“Someone clicked the wrong thing on the computer,” he said.State officials said that the agency and the governor began posting notices on Facebook and Twitter announcing the mistake, but that a flaw in the alert system delayed sending out a cellphone correction. As a result, they said a “cancellation template” would be created to make it easier to fix mistaken alerts. A new procedure was instituted Saturday requiring two people to sign off before any such alert is sent.AdvertisementAt no time, officials said, was there any indication that a nuclear attack had been launched on the United States. The Federal Communications Commission announced that it had begun “a full investigation into the FALSE missile alert in Hawaii.”The alert went out at about 8:10 a.m., lighting up phones of people still in bed, having coffee by the beach at a Waikiki resort, or up for an early surf. “BALLISTIC MISSILE THREAT INBOUND TO HAWAII. SEEK IMMEDIATE SHELTER. THIS IS NOT A DRILL,” it read.Hawaii has been on high emotional alert — it began staging monthly air-raid drills, complete with sirens, in December — since President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, began exchanging nuclear threats. Estimates vary, but it would take a little more than half an hour for a missile launched from North Korea to reach Hawaii, traversing an arc of roughly 5,700 miles. State officials said that residents here would have as little as 12 minutes to find shelter once an alert was issued.Within moments of the first announcement, people flocked to shelters, crowding highways in scenes of terror and helplessness. Emergency sirens wailed in parts of the state, adding to the panic.“I was running through all the scenarios in my head, but there was nowhere to go, nowhere to pull over to,” said Mike Staskow, a retired military captain.Allyson Niven, who lives in Kailua-Kona, said her first instinct was to gather her family as she contemplated what she thought would be her final minutes alive.“We fully felt like we were about to die,” she said. “I drove to try to get to my kids even though I knew I probably wouldn’t make it, and I fully was visualizing what was happening while I was on the road. It was awful.”AdvertisementRay Gerst was vacationing on Oahu with his wife to celebrate their 28th wedding anniversary. He received the alert as they pulled up for their tour of Kualoa Ranch.“All the buses stopped, and people came running out of the ranch and said, ‘Just sit still for a minute, nobody get off the bus, nobody get off the bus,’” he said.They were taken into the mountains, Mr. Gerst said, and dropped off at a concrete bunker. They sheltered in place for about 15 minutes, he said, during which time they had no cell signal.“It was scary,” Mr. Gerst said. “I mean, there was no intel.”At Konawaena High School on the Island of Hawaii, where a high school wrestling championship was taking place, school officials, more accustomed to alerts of high surf or tsunamis, moved people to the center of the gym as they tried to figure out how to take shelter from a missile.“Everyone cooperated,” said Kellye Krug, the athletic director at the school. “Once they were gathered, we let them use cellphones to reach loved ones. There were a couple kids who were emotional, the coaches were right there to console kids. After the retraction was issued, we gave kids time to reach out again.”Matt LoPresti, a state representative, told CNN that he and his family headed for a bathroom. “I was sitting in the bathtub with my children, saying our prayers,” he said.Natalie Haena, 38, of Honolulu, said she was getting ready to take her daughter to ice skating lessons when the alert came. “There’s nothing to prep for a missile coming in,” she said. “We have no bomb shelters or anything like that. There’s nowhere to go.”In Washington, Lindsay Walters, a deputy press secretary, said that President Trump had been informed of the events. “The president has been briefed on the state of Hawaii’s emergency management exercise,” she said. “This was purely a state exercise.”AdvertisementSenator Brian Schatz of Hawaii said the mistake was “totally inexcusable.”“The whole state was terrified,” he said. “There needs to be tough and quick accountability and a fixed process.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While the cellphone alerting system is in state authorities’ hands, the detection of missile launches is the responsibility of the United States Strategic Command and Northern Command. It was the military — not Hawaiian officials — that was the first to declare there was no evidence of a missile launch.The false alert was a stark reminder of what happens when the old realities of the nuclear age collide with the speed — and the potential for error — inherent in the internet age. The alert came at one of the worst possible moments — when tension with North Korea has been at one of the highest points in decades, and when Mr. Kim’s government has promised more missile tests and threatened an atmospheric nuclear test.During the Cold War there were many false alarms. William J. Perry, the defense secretary during the Clinton administration, recalled in his memoir, “My Journey at the Nuclear Brink,” a moment in 1979 when, as an under secretary of defense, he was awakened by a watch officer who reported that his computer system was showing 200 intercontinental ballistic missiles headed to the United States. “For one heart-stopping second I thought my worst nuclear nightmare had come true,” Mr. Perry wrote.It turned out that a training tape had been mistakenly inserted into an early-warning system computer. No one woke up the president. But Mr. Perry went on to speculate what might have happened if such a warning had come “during the Cuban Missile Crisis or a Mideast war?”The United States faces an especially difficult problem today, not just because of tense relations with North Korea but also because of growing fears inside the military about the cyber vulnerability of the nuclear warning system and nuclear control systems.Because of its location, Hawaii — more than any other part of the United States — has been threatened by escalating tensions and the risks of war, and preparations have already begun there.On Friday, the day before the erroneous alert, several hundred people attended an event in Honolulu sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce in which military commanders, politicians and others discussed the threat to the islands’ population.“The U.S. is the designated recipient — and that’s because we are public enemy No. 1 to North Korea,” Dan Leaf, a retired Air Force lieutenant general and Pacific Command deputy commander, was quoted as saying in The Honolulu Star Advertiser.AdvertisementThe Hawaii Emergency Management Agency has been holding “are you ready” drills. As a chain of islands, Hawaii is subject to all kinds of threats — hurricanes, volcanoes, earthquakes and tsunamis — but officials have made clear that none is more urgent now than the threat of an attack by North Korea, given how little time there would be between an alert and the detonation of a bomb.The fifth page of an emergency preparation pamphlet issued by the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency features a picture of a rocket lifting off: “Nuclear Threat — Unlikely But Cannot Ignore It.”Vern T. Miyagi, the administrator of the agency, said that during the drill, an employee — whom he did not identify — mistakenly pushed a button on a computer screen to send out the alert, rather than one marked to test it. He said the employee answered “yes” when asked by the system if he was sure he wanted to send the message.Mr. Miyagi, going through a detailed timeline of the events at an afternoon news conference, said the agency tried to correct the error on social media. It took 38 minutes to send out a follow-up message canceling the original alert, which he acknowledged was a shortcoming with the alert system that the agency would fix.Mr. Rapoza said he did not know if anyone would be disciplined for the mistake. “At this point, our major concern is to make sure we do what we need to do to reassure the public,” he said. “This is not a time for pointing fingers.”The panic that followed the alert — if relatively short-lived — gripped the islands. There were reports of people seeking shelter by parking their cars inside a highway tunnel that cuts through a mountain. When the announcement was rescinded, a digital highway sign read: “Missile alert in error: There is no threat.”People in Hawaii tend to know what to do to protect themselves to threats of a tsunami or a hurricane. The prospect of nuclear annihilation was entirely new terrain.“So this was the most terrifying few minutes of my LIFE!” Paul Wilson, a professor at Brigham Young University-Hawaii, said on Twitter. “I just want to know why it took 38 minutes to announce it was a mistake?!?”Chris Tacker, a veteran who lives in Kealakekua, said the mistake had left her angry and frustrated.“I didn’t know where to go,” she said. “Anyone try to dig a hole in lava? Good luck trying to build a shelter. I’m stocking my liquor cabinet.”AdvertisementStill, she added, “If we don’t have our sense of humor about this, it’s all over.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a retired Air Force lieutenant general quoted in the Honolulu Star Advertiser. The general’s name is Dan Leaf, not Leak.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of a picture credit with this article misidentified the photographer. The picture of an electronic sign above a highway in Hawaii was taken by Cory Lum, not Anthony Quintano.Reporting was contributed by Barbara Tanabe, Meghan Miner Murray, Sydney Ember, Laurie Kawakami, Christina Caron, Christopher Mele and Joumana Khatib.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Panic in Hawaii  As Missile Alert  Is Sent in Error.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 JONATHAN WOLFE
 
JAN. 12, 2018
Good morning on this drenched Friday.The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was born and raised in Atlanta, but we have adopted him as our own in New York. Officially.Mayor Robert F. Wagner made him an honorary New Yorker in 1964, and the city began recognizing a day in his honor in 1970, 16 years before it would be observed as a national holiday.To celebrate what would have been King’s 89th birthday on Monday, we took a tour of his New York.We began in the theater district, where King, a fan of Broadway, was said to have taken in shows like “Mr. Wonderful,” “South Pacific” and “Damn Yankees.”Then we traveled uptown to Riverside Church in Morningside Heights, where in 1967 the preacher gave his most politically charged speech, “Beyond Vietnam,” in which he strongly condemned the war.AdvertisementAfter touring the church’s education wing, named after King, we were pointed to a carved oak table in the gift shop from which he delivered the speech. Today it’s covered with glass jewelry, knit hats, stationery and other merchandise.AdvertisementWe then strolled down Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, naturally, and arrived at what was once the Blumstein’s Department store on 125th Street. There, in 1958, while signing copies of his book “Stride Toward Freedom: The Montgomery Story,” he was stabbed by a woman with a seven-inch steel letter opener.When asked, the current tenants — Apollo Beauty Land, Platinum Jewelry of Harlem and Dr. Jay’s Ladies — said they didn’t know of their building’s association with racial justice.They did a few blocks north at Harlem Hospital Center, where King was taken after the attempted assassination.“We’re particularly proud of the integral role we played in the civil rights movement,” said Sylvia L. White, the hospital’s deputy executive director. “He said it himself, without us, there would be no march on Washington.”Ms. White gave us a tour of the Martin Luther King Jr. Pavilion (18 floors where doctors work with the hospital’s most severe cases) and showed us a mural by the artist Darryl Downes that depicts, in dreamy green and aquamarine, the surgeons at work on King.The room where he slept, the bed in which he recovered and the steps from which he can be seen smiling and waving in a photo after his recovery were all lost to history. The building was demolished in 2004 during a renovation of the hospital campus.We ended our tour at the memorial to King by William Tarr in Lincoln Square, close to where, in 1967, he led one of the nation’s largest anti-Vietnam War demonstrations. Less than a year later he was shot and killed.AdvertisementOn the steel cube are quotes from King, including this one:“Let us be dissatisfied until every man can have food and material necessities for his body, culture and education for his mind, freedom and human dignity for his sprit.”Here’s what else is happening:It’s going to rain today, and it could be very heavy at times, so bring an umbrella and a pair of dry socks.On the flip side, it will be warm. The high could reach 60.Saturday is looking wet as well, but dropping temperatures means it could come in the form of freezing rain and sleet. Sunday will be sunny, ushering in a stretch of cold similar to the beginning of this year.• One of Chris Christie’s last acts as governor may be a push for New Jersey Transit to purchase the last industrial site on the Hoboken waterfront, over objections from the city’s mayor. [New York Times]• An accusation against the powerful New York senator Jeffrey D. Klein is Albany’s biggest sexual harassment scandal in years, but there may be few options to investigate. [New York Times]• The former director of financial aid at Columbia University is accused of taking kickbacks from graduate students. [New York Times]• The City Council speaker accused police officers and federal agents of acting violently at an immigration protest at which two council members were arrested. [New York Times]• In “About New York,” the columnist Jim Dwyer explores how Mayor Bill de Blasio declared himself a foe of climate change, despite travel habits that undermine his rhetoric. [New York Times]• New York’s prison system is testing a policy that would require all packages for inmates to be ordered through a handful of state-approved vendors. [New York Times]Advertisement• The president of the University of Rochester stepped down just hours before an outside investigation cleared him of charges that he covered up a sexual harassment scandal involving a prominent professor. [New York Times]• A Brooklyn judge threw out a guilty verdict in a 1997 murder case that the physically aggressive former detective Louis Scarcella worked on. The prisoner argued that Mr. Scarcella choked and hit him to coerce a confession. [New York Times]• The number of students taking the SAT at New York City public schools increased significantly last year, after the city offered the test for free and during the school day in an effort to close a racial gap. [New York Times]• The real estate prices in Brooklyn continue to climb, even as the surrounding areas stumble. [New York Times]• Mayor Bill de Blasio’s monuments commission decided to allow a Christopher Columbus statue to remain in place, but markings will be added to honor indigenous people. [New York Daily News]• A New Jersey resident was stripped of his citizenship after the Justice Department learned he had entered the country under a false name. [NBC New York]• The suspect in the Port Authority bombing case pleaded not guilty “at this moment” in Manhattan federal court. [New York Post]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Meeting Coretta Scott King.”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Advertisement• Dress up in cosplay and visit the two-day Black Comic Book festival at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem. 10 a.m. [Free]• The author Tom Mullen presents his book “Anthology of Emo, Volume 1” at the Powerhouse Arena in Dumbo, Brooklyn. 7 p.m. [Free]• Learn how to make authentic Turkish dishes at a cooking class at the Alley Pond Environmental Center in Little Neck, Queens. 7 p.m. [$24]• A performance of classic folk songs from Latin America at the Cave at St. George’s in Midtown. 7:30 p.m. [$15]• Nets at Hawks, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks at Timberwolves, 8 p.m. (MSG).• Watch “The New York Times Close Up,” featuring The Times’s Jonathan Mahler and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV.• Alternate-side parking is suspended through Saturday for snow operations.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday • Celebrate the 40th anniversary of “The Wiz” with a screening of the film at the Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens. 11 a.m. [$15]• Learn what it takes to build an urban bike park and then go off-road cycling at Highbridge Park in Washington Heights. 11 a.m. [Free]Advertisement• Hear drum performances and ring in the Year of the Dog at the Japanese New Year festival at Roulette in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. 1 to 5 p.m. [$18]• Learn how to embroider, and channel its calming qualities, at an Embroidery for Meditation class at Root Mama in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. 1 p.m. [$35]• Rangers host Islanders, 1 p.m. (MSG, MSG+). Devils host Flyers, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Nets at Wizards, 7 p.m. (YES).Sunday • Search for beavers and muskrats in the wild and learn about their ecosystems at Historic Richmond Town in Staten Island. 11 a.m. [Free]• Swing dancing performances and a vintage fashion show at Flushing Town Hall in Queens. 2 p.m. [$10]• An afternoon of classical music at Wave Hill in the Bronx. 2 p.m. [$28]• Looking ahead: Take home a piece of GingerBread Lane, after it’s dismantled, at the New York Hall of Science in Flushing Meadows Corona Park, Queens. 2 p.m. [Free]• Knicks host Pelicans, 3:30 p.m. (MSG). Rangers at Penguins, 7:30 p.m. (NBCS).• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.For those of you who would like to celebrate the legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the coming days, here are some suggestions.AdvertisementVisit the exhibition “King in New York,” about King’s time in New York, at the Museum of the City of New York on the Upper East Side. Opens tomorrow at 10 a.m. [$18]Make a quilt out of donated fabric in honor of King’s visit to Gee’s Bend Community in rural Alabama and the establishment of the Freedom Quilting Bee at Wave Hill in the Bronx. Saturday at 10 a.m. [Free]Attend a musical tribute to King at Riverside Church in Morningside Heights. Sunday at 3 p.m. [Free]Listen in on conversations with politicians, activists and journalists from WNYC at the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day Celebration at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. Sunday at 3 p.m. [Free]Hear musical performances and talks with activists and civic leaders at the city’s largest tribute to King at BAM in Downtown Brooklyn. Monday beginning at 10:30 a.m. [Free]Join a gospel celebration in honor of King by the Harlem Gospel Choir at B.B. King Blues Club and Grill in Times Square. Monday at 12:30 p.m. [$30]There will be no New York Today on Monday in observance of Martin Luther King’s Birthday. We’ll be back on Tuesday. Have a great weekend! New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.An earlier version of the article gave an incorrect date for the year Dr. King was attacked at Blumstein’s Department store. Dr. King was stabbed in 1958, not 1952.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CLAY RISENJAN. 11, 2018
There was a time, in the decades after Prohibition, when Canadian whisky was all the rage in America, when a bottle of Crown Royal sat on the bar cart of any serious imbiber. But by the time the renaissance in whiskey making and drinking began in the early 2000s, the Canadian product had long ago been dismissed as bland and bottom-shelf.It’s a story that Davin de Kergommeaux, a whiskey writer in Ottawa, knows all too well. When he published his book “Canadian Whisky: The Portable Expert” in 2012, it was the first serious guide to the category in decades — not that anyone noticed. He would give seminars at whiskey festivals and be lucky if a few dozen people showed up.“I was very much a voice in the wilderness,” he said during a recent visit to New York.That’s starting to change. Canadian whiskys are winning awards and fans as drinkers curious about the next development in whiskey turn their eyes north. In October, Mr. de Kergommeaux published a fully revised and greatly expanded edition of his book, and he is once again on the festival circuit, getting a much different reception.“At an event in Ottawa, 169 people bought tickets for one of my talks,” he said.The sudden popularity of all kinds of whiskey on both sides of the Canadian-American border is driving a rapid expansion among Canadian distillers. Mr. de Kergommeaux’s first edition covered just nine distilleries — eight large, traditional operations, and one craft start-up. The new edition includes 40 more, all of them newly opened, with many more on the way.One of the new entrants, the Eau Claire Distillery outside Calgary, Alberta, released its first whisky, a single malt, in December. “It was all presold, before we even put it in bottles, “ said David Farran, the founder.AdvertisementAnd while many of the newer distilleries have yet to export to the United States, sales of Canadian whisky in America were up a healthy 7 percent between 2011 and 2016, with a 112 percent leap in the high-end premium category, according to the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States. In Canada, domestic consumption was up 4 percent for the same period, with a 28 percent jump at the high end, according to Spirits Canada/Association of Canadian Distillers.AdvertisementIn both countries, the figures signal a clear tilt in favor of more expensive, and more innovative, brands. “A lot more consumers are taking Canadian whisky seriously,” Mr. de Kergommeaux said. “They taste it and recognize the care that goes into it.”“Canadian whisky” is both a simple geographic identity — it’s whiskey, made in Canada — and a specific, somewhat complicated style. While some new distilleries, like Eau Claire, make Scotch-style single malt as part of their lineups, all the large distilleries, and most of the start-ups, focus on Canadian-style whisky.Like bourbon and most American ryes, Canadian whisky is typically made from a combination of different grains. But while the grains in bourbon and rye are mashed together first, then distilled and aged, in Canada each grain is processed separately, then blended together at the end.And while most American whiskey must by law be aged in charred, new oak barrels, no such restrictions exist in Canada. Distillers there can work with any grain (though rye predominates), and they can age it in any kind of barrel — new, used or one that held another beverage, like rum or wine.The result is a spectrum of flavors for blenders to work with. “Put these variables together, and there are literally thousands of different points we can hit in terms of flavor,” said Rick Murphy, who oversees production for Alberta Distillers, one of Canada’s largest.That freedom, however, presents a problem in the United States, where 69 percent of Canadian whisky is sold, according to Spirits Canada. American law requires that Canadian whisky be labeled “blended” — which, in the United States, usually means a whiskey that combines a small amount of strong whiskey with mostly neutral grain spirits, creating a cheap, nearly flavorless drink.As a result, many Americans assume that Canadian whisky is boring and poorly made, a misconception that the industry’s leaders are only now pushing back against.Advertisement“I think we’ve been apologizing for it too long, and haven’t gone out to tell our story,” said Don Livermore, the master blender at the Hiram Walker & Sons distillery in Windsor, Ontario. “Canadians have been doing themselves a disservice for 80 years.”
                A celebration of Canadian cuisine, from its indigenous chefs to its famous butter tarts and Caesars.            Canadian whisky has done well in America; Crown Royal, made by Diageo at a plant in Manitoba, is the second-best-selling whiskey in the United States, behind Jack Daniel’s.Still, for decades Canadian whisky has been stereotyped the same way Canada has been: as unassuming, a bit bland and averse to change. But these days the country is challenging those preconceptions, celebrating its diversity, its youthful spirit and its embrace of innovation. The same is happening with its whisky.Distilleries are sending their master blenders around the world to promote their product, and inviting tourists into their plants with new visitor centers. And they are creating flavorful and exciting new expressions: peppery whiskys made with 100 percent rye grain, like Lot 40; whiskys finished in port or rum barrels, like Pike Creek; and weird but delicious blends like Alberta Dark Batch, which combines 6- and 12-year-old Canadian rye with bourbon and sherry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“People are looking for heavier, bolder styles of whiskey,” Mr. Livermore said. “I grew up on meat and potatoes, my kids are growing up on sushi. What I like about Canadian whisky is that we can adapt easily to changing tastes.”Though he is probably too modest to claim credit, Mr. de Kergommeaux is part of Canadian whisky’s success story. His book quickly became required reading for whiskey fans, and he became both prophet and proselytizer for the spirit’s resurgence at seminars and festivals around the world.“I didn’t understand Canadian whisky until I read Davin’s book,” said Lew Bryson, a spirits writer and the author of “Tasting Whiskey: An Insider’s Guide to the Unique Pleasures of the World’s Finest Spirits.” “I don’t think you can overstate his significance.”Mr. de Kergommeaux wasn’t the only one talking up Canadian whisky. In 2016, an Englishman, Jim Murray, the author of the annual “Jim Murray’s Whisky Bible,” named Crown Royal’s Northern Harvest Rye, made in Gimli, Manitoba, the world’s best whiskey of the year.The rye grain in Northern Harvest, Mr. Murray wrote, was “not just turning up to charm and enthrall but to also take us through a routine which reaches new heights of beauty and complexity. To say this is a masterpiece is barely doing it justice.”AdvertisementCanadians celebrated the news as if they had just won the World Cup. Within days, stocks of Northern Harvest in Canada and the United States disappeared.“When Murray’s award was announced, I got a call from someone at Canadian Club who said, ‘We won,’” Mr. de Kergommeaux recalled. “I said, Crown Royal won, not his brand. ‘No,’ he said, ‘Canada won.’”The price for the world’s best whiskey? $35. Which is another thing Canadian has going for it. Prices for single-malt Scotch, Japanese whiskey and even bourbon have skyrocketed in the last decade, putting luxury bottles out of most drinkers’ reach. A bottle of 40-year-old single-malt Scotch from the Balvenie costs $4,000. A bottle of 40-year-old Canadian Club, in contrast, costs $200 (though you’ll have to go to Canada to get it; it is not yet available outside the country).Robust flavors and variety make Canadian whisky popular with bartenders, too. Char No. 5, a hotel bar in downtown Toronto that is a hot spot for international travelers, features all-Canadian bar flights, as well as classic cocktails made with Canadian whisky.“The way Canadian is blended opens up flavor possibilities, so you can choose specific whiskys for different cocktails,” said Ray Daniel, Char No. 5’s head bartender. “And it’s fairly modestly priced, so you don’t have to take a risk.”What really excites Mr. Daniel — and anyone who’s betting on Canadian whisky — is the type of customer ordering his drinks. When Char No. 5 opened in 2014, business travelers from Europe and the United States would sidle up to the bar, and their eyes would skip right over Char No. 5’s lengthy list of Canadian whiskey, in search of Scotch or bourbon.No longer. “American guests in particular are very open to trying new things,” Mr. Daniel said. “They’re not looking for Jack and Coke anymore.”Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the location of Eau Claire Distillery. It is Turner Valley, Alberta, not Turner.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: For a Glowing Heart, Look to the North.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Modern Love By                     
GABRIELLE ULUBAY

JAN. 12, 2018
I had invited him over only for sex, so when I woke the next morning to the sight of him putting on his pants, I said, “Do you need me to walk you out?”“No, I’m just going to use the bathroom,” he said. “I’d like to stay, if that’s O.K.”And it was. So he stayed for the rest of the day, never more than a few inches from me. We left the room only to use the bathroom or to shuffle to the kitchen for snacks. Meanwhile, my roommates laughed, gossiping about my “sexcapade with the cute guy from Tinder.”“I think you’re the girl of my dreams,” he said. “I can’t believe we met on Tinder.”I had never been the girl of anyone’s dreams — not even my own. I always imagined the quintessential girl of men’s dreams to be taller than me, thinner, more poised and blond. But my lover insisted, and we lounged on top of each other until late in the afternoon.Later, I said, “Do you usually have sex with girls the night you meet them?”He cocked an eyebrow. “Why, do I come off as a slut?”AdvertisementI laughed nervously. “Of course not.”Finally, he answered: “Not really, no. I mean, I wouldn’t turn sex down, but I wouldn’t go looking for it, either.”After a minute, I asked, “Do I come off as a slut?”His voice softened. He wrapped his arms tighter around me. “No, not at all. You actually come off as a lady.”Maybe he wanted it to sound like a compliment, but my doubts about his sincerity made it feel more like a blow. I wondered if he was lying to make me feel better or to ensure more sex later.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As a child, I was always told, “Use your words” — shorthand for saying precisely what I mean and what I expect from people. As an adult, I’ve noticed that a lot of people aren’t very good at using their words, especially before and after hookups. Few ever seem to say precisely what they mean or what they expect.Regardless, I smiled and said, “Really? Thank you.” I kissed him on the cheek, the temple, the forehead. “And you come off as a gentleman.”AdvertisementAnd he did. But I secretly hoped that he was the same as me, that his chest also simmered with hidden indiscretions, and that the speed with which we slept together was as typical for him as it was for me. Because if it wasn’t, I would have to wonder if, upon discovering the truth, he would recoil. I would have to wonder if he would think of me as dirty or morally deficient, even though he already said he found me gentle.“Wow, you’ve got a beautiful smile,” he said, idly stroking my waist, my stomach, my hips, my thighs. “You’re really the full package.”“You don’t have to say that.”“I know I don’t,” he said. “But I mean it.”He told me I was smart, funny, creative. “You’ve got good karma, Gab,” he said.I said, “You see things in me I didn’t know were visible.”I don’t know why I fell for it, especially when I hadn’t even gone looking for it. For some reason I’ve always been susceptible to thinking my life would be vastly improved by the solution to a single problem. In high school, I thought, “It will all get better when the braces come off,” or “when my skin clears up” or “when I go to college.”And now, older and supposedly wiser, I find myself thinking it will all get better when I find romance. When I have a man who wants me despite how fallible, loud or political I can be. Someone who, with a kiss, can snap me out of my self-pitying reverie. I think about how long I’ve been ready to find the beauty in another human being, to caress the scars of someone as flawed as me and to feel that person reciprocate.That night I hadn’t been looking for romance, but my two-time lover embedded himself in my consciousness when he told me I was the girl of his dreams, and I can’t help but think how cruel that was, considering how it all turned out. Our goodbye was a kiss on the mouth and a wink as he stepped off the subway.He had grinned and said, “I’ll see you later,” but he never saw me again. I have since learned that “later” means the same thing it did when I was a child and wanted to do something extravagant: It means “I don’t want to” or “If I feel like it.”Now I’m told, “You only like him because he flattered you,” and “Good sex can trick you into thinking you like anyone.”Advertisement“What did you expect, Gab?” my friend said. “You can’t form a connection with somebody that fast.”I shrugged. “I didn’t mean to. This felt different.”She sighed. “Your problem is that you jump into things too quickly.”“O.K. …”I thought there must be something terribly, medically wrong with me if I could so badly misinterpret a situation. I wanted to see a doctor. I wanted a diagnosis. I wanted to ask my lover if he had found himself disappointed, if I wasn’t who he wanted me to be.My friends tell me I need to love myself. I’m told this will make my life better, much in the way braces and clear skin were supposed to make me beautiful. When I ask how to do this, my friends become philosophers and say, “You need to find it within yourself.” Their advice is so abstract that I wonder if they, too, have searched and cannot find it.How do I search within myself? I imagine reaching down my throat and rummaging until I find some bright little mass labeled “self-love.” It has been hiding, perhaps behind some bothersome organ or within the folds of a stubborn muscle. And when I find this magical panacea, I will say, “Oh, there you are. Where have you been all this time?” And I will set it back inside of me, this time in the correct place.My question is: How will I know when I have found this thing that I never realized I lost, and what will happen when I do?But I don’t really think my problem is a lack of self-love. I enjoy sex for its own sake every bit as much as a man does, and I’m honest about that. What confuses matters is all this sweet talk, followed by the vanishing act.“Ghosting is the most cowardly way to end a relationship,” I once said to a male friend in a room with a guy who had ghosted me years before.Advertisement“Would you really rather someone tell you to your face that they don’t have feelings for you?” my friend said.“I’d rather have that than be made to feel like an idiot,” I said.Not too long after, a man I slept with told me I was beautiful while we were walking to my apartment in the middle of the night. He caressed the back of my hand with his thumb and smiled, but it meant nothing — under the orange glow of streetlights, I knew, even broken glass looks stunning.“I feel so lucky right now,” he said. “I can’t believe a girl like you would give me the time of day.”I texted him the next week, but he never responded. Annoyed, I noted that I wouldn’t even have thought to text him if he hadn’t blanketed me with such gratuitous flattery.And then my two-time lover called me a lady. He added me on Facebook and told me to keep in touch. He said my skin was soft and my smile was beautiful and he couldn’t believe he had found someone like me.He said, “I’m never mean to girls.”I smiled. “So you’re a self-proclaimed nice guy?”“Yes. What’s wrong with that?”“Nothing,” I said, draping my leg over both of his. He slid his arm beneath my head like a pillow. “But I don’t want a guy to be nice to me just because he feels obligated to, you know? I want him to be nice because he means it.”“That makes sense,” he said, tangling a hand in my hair and kissing me on the forehead.I don’t wander into casual sex expecting it to yield a relationship. I have never understood why some guys seem to think flattery is the key to a bedroom they’ve already been welcomed into. They say they would love to date me and then wonder why, the next day, I think they want to date me.I neither require the flattery nor deserve the ghosting. With hookups there’s no need to be mean — just say what you mean. Use your words.Gabrielle Ulubay recently graduated from Northeastern University in Boston.modernlove@nytimes.comTo hear Modern Love: The Podcast, subscribe on iTunes or Google Play Music. To read past Modern Love columns, click here. Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page ST6 of the New York edition with the headline: For a Hookup, Just Use Your Words.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By RONDA KAYSENJAN. 10, 2018
Talk to Leigh Weaver, who commutes by bus from Livingston, N.J., to Midtown Manhattan, about what getting to work used to be like, and you’ll hear the all-too-familiar grievances about grinding traffic, suffocating crowds and cranky drivers.But then, in September 2016 she learned about OurBus, a new company willing to start a bus route in her area if enough people signed up.“I was willing to do whatever I had to do to make this happen,” said Ms. Weaver, 43, a senior program manager for Google.Commuting in the New York region has gotten decidedly worse in recent years, as infrastructure ages and more people travel to the city for work. Over the past 25 years, rail trips in and out of Penn Station have nearly tripled, and bus trips have increased by 83 percent, according to a 2017 Regional Plan Association report. Over 1.6 million people commute into the city daily, with 320,000 coming from New Jersey, the report found.OurBus, which started in May 2016 with a route from Kendall Park, N.J., near Princeton, to Midtown, is one of a handful of tech companies aiming to ease commuter stress by crowdsourcing rides and then developing apps that offer the routes in demand. Using available vehicles from existing charter bus services, it currently offers two routes from New Jersey to Midtown, and has plans to start a third one from Monroe later this year.AdvertisementAnother New Jersey company, Boxcar, started offering a similar service in response to the repair work at Penn Station last summer. In Manhattan, Chariot, a San Francisco-based shuttle service, began operating commuter vans last summer. These services are, in a way, larger and more complicated versions of ride-hailing apps like Uber or Lyft.AdvertisementOnce a route has been established, riders purchase tickets through an app, guaranteeing them a seat — so no more standing in the aisle, squeezed against other passengers. Vehicles come equipped with Wi-Fi. OurBus and Boxcar buses have bathrooms onboard and charging outlets next to the seats. And riders using Chariot and OurBus can track the progress of their vehicles on their phones.“It seems so much more convenient for people to go to their phone and to be able to see when the bus is coming and then to be able to get on the bus and know that it’s a new bus and somebody is taking care of it,” said Dani Simons, a spokeswoman for the Regional Plan Association, a research and advocacy group for innovative approaches to transportation in the New York region. “That shouldn’t be so crazy. Public transit shouldn’t be miserable.”But some transit advocates are skeptical. A poorly selected route or a half-empty vehicle could exacerbate congestion, said Jon Orcutt, the director of communications and advocacy at TransitCenter, a research organization. “Eventually they’re going to get stuck in the same traffic as the taxis,” he said. And while tech-savvy riders can swipe a request for a new route, neighborhoods with residents that are less tapped into social media and the latest apps might get overlooked, said Ms. Simons.Establishing a new commuter bus route takes more planning than requesting a car share. Riders have to rely on dozens of other passengers agreeing to sign on, and the company has to establish a route, a bureaucratic process that can take months.Ms. Weaver, who commutes from Livingston, contacted OurBus after years spent riding Community Coach, a bus line owned by Coach USA. “I begged them to consider us,” she said of the first email she sent to OurBus in September 2016. Community Coach buses were often late, she said, broke down and were so crowded that they would sometimes pass her by, leaving her waiting on a cold suburban street corner with no idea when another one might arrive.Scott Sprengel, a vice president at Coach USA, said that the company is aware of the issues. “We are proactively meeting with our customers to meet their demands,” he said. To address the crowds and the delayed service (not to mention the competition), Coach began testing online ticketing with a small group of riders on last week. If the pilot program is a success, the company plans to expand online ticketing to all commuters, said Sean Hughes, a Coach spokesman. (Currently passengers must buy paper tickets from a clerk at Port Authority Bus Terminal in New York.)Ms. Weaver, however, decided to take the lead herself. When members of a local Facebook group for commuters would post gripes, she would respond, urging them to request a new route on Ourbus.com. Last summer, after about 100 people requested the route, the company started one from Livingston to Port Authority, with stops in West Orange. Martz Group operates the buses.Advertisement“Night and day doesn’t even do it justice,” Ms. Weaver said of her new commute. “You almost get your life back.”A ticket from Livingston costs $8.60 a ride, which is slightly cheaper than Community Coach ($9.60). Coach buses, however, come more frequently. And on a recent cold December morning, four Coach buses stopped at a West Orange Park and Ride in the 25 minutes that a reporter waited for one Ourbus, watching the bus creep closer on the app (it arrived on time). While commuters filled the Coach buses, another line of riders dutifully waited for the alternative.Indeed, start-ups have their limitations. Chariot, a start-up venture that was acquired in 2016 by Ford Smart Mobility, offers four shuttle routes in parts of Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan. Tickets cost $4 for a ride. The 14-passenger vans operate only during the morning and evening rush, picking up passengers in one direction. So if you want to take the Midtown Getaround, for example, which travels from 6th Avenue and 36th Street in Midtown to Grand Street and Driggs Avenue in Brooklyn, you can catch a Manhattan-bound shuttle only in the morning and a Brooklyn-bound shuttle in the evening. Reverse commuters are out of luck.Beth Fitzgerald, 61, a legal secretary who lives on 18th Street and First Avenue in Manhattan, regularly commutes by Chariot to and from her office on 43rd Street and Fifth Avenue. “Sometimes I’m the only one in the van,” she said. Ms. Fitzgerald loves the service, saying it has transformed her commute. She used to take two city buses, a trip that could take anywhere from 20 minutes to an hour. Now, her ride is consistently 10 minutes long, and the drivers handed out candy on Halloween. “It’s incredible,” she said.Chariot sees itself as a bridge between the first and last mile of travel for riders whose subway or ferry stop might be just out of reach. “We’re bringing people back to mass transit,” said Ali Vahabzadeh, the chief executive of Chariot, which also operates shuttles in Austin, Seattle and San Francisco. Mr. Vahabzadeh sees the looming shutdown of the L train as an opportunity to step in. “It doesn’t have to be a doomsday scenario,” he said.Some transportation experts believe that the focus should be on fixing the infrastructure that already exists. “We need to modernize the public transit system to the point where people are choosing to use it rather than searching desperately for alternatives,” said John Raskin, the executive director of the Riders Alliance, a transit advocacy group.But commuters want relief. Consider Boxcar, which started last April as an app for commuters to rent daily parking spots near New Jersey train stations, paying around $6.50 a day. The company was a few months old when the Morris and Essex lines were rerouted to Hoboken during the so-called Summer of Hell. Seeing an opportunity, Boxcar partnered with charter bus companies to run buses from towns along the affected train line into Midtown. When riders requested more stops in Manhattan, the company provided the service.Even though the track work from last summer is finished and the trains are up and running again, many commuters now prefer Boxcar. So the company is continuing to offer two morning bus routes from outside the Chatham and Madison train stations. (With new track work having started this month at Penn Station, which has caused more delays and cancellations, Boxcar is “considering adding additional services,” but has “not solidified any plans as of yet,” said Joe Colangelo, the chief executive of Boxcar.) At $12.99 a ticket, the Chatham-to-New York ride is more expensive than the $10.75 train fare. The company does not currently offer return bus service to New Jersey for the evening rush.But Jennifer Rowland thinks the one-way commute in the morning is worth it. “I pay for the ease of the ride,” said Ms. Rowland, 49, a Boxcar rider who lives in Chatham and works for a media investment company in Midtown. “I am a single mother of five children. There are so many reasons to be stressed out. Commuting shouldn’t be this hard.”A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page MB1 of the New York edition with the headline: Crowdsourcing the Daily Commute.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 8, 2018
Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• The tech reckoning is gaining momentum.• Ripple’s XRP virtual currency plunged over the past day.• GoPro’s shares dropped after the company announced disappointing sales forecasts.• Could a sale of Twitter happen this year?Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.American technology giants are facing an increasing backlash. Google-parent Alphabet, Facebook and Twitter have drawn scrutiny from lawmakers over the manipulation of social media during the 2016 election by Russian operatives. Critics of Amazon say it is killing jobs. Across the pond, European regulators have gone after American tech firms over privacy and what officials deem anticompetitive behavior.Now Jana Partners and pension giant Calstrs are pushing Apple to do more to protect its youngest users from the effects of digital technology.AdvertisementWrites Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Gadfly:“One letter from Calstrs and Jana may amount to nothing. It’s becoming increasingly clear, however, that scrutiny over technology companies and their products isn’t going away.“There will be much discussion about whether technology companies, or people and parents, bear responsibility for limiting the harmful effects of technology. Even smartphone overuse isn’t Apple’s problem alone. Its gadgets are gateways to people hooked on Instagram, YouTube, Snapchat and much more. We are all the problem, and the technology companies are all the problem.”Still, compared to Facebook, Google or Snap, Apple is an unusual choice for the investors to target, writes Jennifer Saba of Breakingviews. The company makes hardware and uses privacy as a selling point. For those reasons, Apple was expected to avoid the worst of the blowback. But its targeting shows the extent to which the backlash against tech is gaining momentum: Writes Ms. Saba:“Silicon Valley used to enjoy an exalted status, but questions about the role of social media in the 2016 presidential election and the way digital technologies may threaten jobs and promote monopolies are breeding skepticism. The new focus on Apple shows how much technology has lost its halo.”Federal regulators have rejected a proposal by Energy Secretary Rick Perry to subsidize struggling coal and nuclear plants, in a major blow to the Trump administration’s efforts to revive America’s declining coal industry, the NYT reports.In September, Mr. Perry warned that the loss of these plants could threaten the “reliability and resiliency of our nation’s grid” and asked the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees regional electricity markets, to guarantee financial returns for power plants that can stockpile at least 90 days’ worth of fuel on-site — which, in effect, meant propping up uncompetitive coal and nuclear units. (Natural gas plants are typically fed by pipeline and would not qualify.)While a few utilities with significant coal and nuclear capacity supported the idea, Mr. Perry’s proposal generated a fierce backlash from a broad coalition of energy companies, free-market groups and former regulators.AdvertisementOnly last week, Ripple appeared to lay claim to the biggest alternative to Bitcoin. That isn’t the case anymore.The price of Ripple’s XRP virtual currency has plunged about 27 percent over the past 24 hours, reaching $2.47 this morning, according to CoinMarketCap. Ripple’s total market capitalization has fallen back below that of Ethereum.To be fair, other virtual currencies — including Bitcoin — are falling as well.It was only last week: Investors breathlessly touted Ripple co-founder Chris Larsen, who owns a significant amount of XRP, as richer than Mark Zuckerberg.The breathlessness hasn’t abated: Shares in Seagate were briefly up more than 10 percent on Monday amid excited speculation that the hard drive company owned a huge stake in XRP as part of its investment in Ripple almost three years ago. (It’s not clear that’s actually the case.)— Michael J. de la MercedIts announcement of preliminary fourth-quarter results today compounds the troubles for what has been one of the most disappointing market debutantes in recent years.The company issued a revenue forecast that was lighter than analysts were expecting. And the action-camera maker announced its latest efforts to turn around its business:• Laying off at least 254 employees, bringing its headcount to under 1,000 worldwide• Its founder and C.E.O., Nick Woodman, reducing his cash compensation this year to $1.• Getting out of the drone market amid “a hostile regulatory environment” in Europe and the U.S.AdvertisementOver all, GoPro’s shares have fallen 79 percent since the company’s I.P.O. three-and-a-half years ago.— Michael J. de la MercedSteven Milunovich, an analyst at UBS, expects the iPhone maker to use the overseas cash it repatriates to buy back $122 billion in stock through 2019.The company holds about $252 billion cash offshore. Mr. Milunovich via CNBC writes:“Repatriation of ~$250bn of offshore cash should increase the rate of Apple’s share buybacks since the company believes the stock remains attractive in that its services business is undervalued.”Apple has bought back more than $165 billion of stock over the past five years.The analyst Rich Greenfield of BTIG thinks so. Leading his list of predictions for the year is speculation that the social network would finally become the target of deal-making. (Remember that Salesforce had held talks to buy the company in the fall of 2016.)From Mr. Greenfield’s note:Twitter offers a unique acquisition opportunity for any company looking to own breaking news, politics and sports, infused with video on mobile devices with tens of millions of daily active users across the world. Add to that a vast treasure trove of data on its users and a Twitter acquisition becomes compelling for many companies across the TMT universe.Who would buy Twitter? Maybe Salesforce comes back. Or maybe Google does. Or Microsoft.Other predictions• AT&T will defeat the Justice Department in the court battle over Time Warner.• CBS and Viacom finally combine.• Spotify will go public this year, but may sell itself down the road.— Michael J. de la MercedThe chip-maker’s stock is up 2.5 percent Monday. The driver? News that Nvidia will partner with Uber and Volkswagen on autonomous driving projects.Reuters reports:• “Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang said at the CES technology conference in Las Vegas that Uber’s self-driving car fleet was using their technology to help its autonomous cars perceive the world and make split-second decisions.”• “With Volkswagen, Nvidia said it was infusing its artificial intelligence technology into the German automakers’ future lineup, using their new Drive IX platform. The technology will enable so-called “intelligent co-pilot” capabilities based on processing sensor data inside and outside the car.”AdvertisementSome context: Shares of Nvidia more than doubled over the past 12 months after a roughly 200 percent gain in 2016. The rally in Nvidia’s shares has come as demand for chips to power data centers, artificial intelligence, autonomous driving and gaming has surged.Nvidia said that “320 companies involved in self-driving cars - whether software developers, automakers and their suppliers, sensor and mapping companies - are using Nvidia Drive, formerly branded as the Drive PX2,” Reuters reports.The German bank is down seven percent the past two days after it said it would post a small loss for 2017, its third consecutive annual. Weak trading and a $1.8 billion hit from the United State’s tax overhaul are the main culprits.Of those, Deutsche Bank’s trading woes should be more concerning to shareholders, writes Christopher Thompson of Breakingviews.The bank said sales and trading revenue was expected to decline 22 percent in the fourth quarter from a year ago. While Deutsche Bank’s trading performance has not be appreciably worse than its European rivals, the decline in its shares “is that it is more dependent on this revenue than other big investment banks.”“Equities and fixed income sales and trading brought in more than 31 percent of Deutsche’s total revenue in the third quarter of 2017, compared with around 28 percent at Credit Suisse and 19 percent at Barclays. The German group also lacks a consistent source of stable earnings similar to Credit Suisse’s wealth management franchise or Barclays’s UK retail bank.”That means that “without a pickup in volatility or client activity, trading revenues – and shareholders – remain stuck in a rut,” Mr. Thompson writes.Jason Rabinowitz of The Points Guy explained how John F. Kennedy International Airport in particular functions — and why its operations were severely disrupted even after the “bomb cyclone” of last week.Among the interesting pieces of trivia to emerge from the piece:Essentially, each terminal at JFK is its own little fiefdom with separate operations, management and employees. If an airline calls Terminal 7 home, that’s the only terminal it’s allowed to use. Even if Terminal 4 has a dozen empty gates, an airline slated for Terminal 7 may have to wait hours for a gate to open at Terminal 7.Here’s Mr. Rabinowitz’s concluding thought:Savvy travelers all know to avoid NYC area airports whenever possible, and this winter storm drove that point home once again.— Michael J. de la MercedQuestions Brian Krzanich is likely to face about as he prepares for a keynote speech at the biggest convention in consumer electronics:• How well will planned fixes work against Meltdown and Spectre, the two computer chip security flaws that affect most of the world’s processors?Advertisement• Can Intel design new chips without either of the problems?• Were the $39 million worth of stock sales he made in November, after the flaws were discovered but before they were disclosed, really just part of a prearranged trading plan?What he would prefer to talk about: Augmented reality and self-driving cars.Today’s talking point, from Nathaniel Fick, the C.E.O. of the cybersecurity company Endgame, in an NYT Op-Ed:From a corporate governance and accountability perspective, cybersecurity today is being treated like accounting was before the fallout from the Enron scandal inspired the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s increased standards for corporate disclosures.The tech flyaround, CES edition• The convention’s organizers said they were seeking more women speakers. (CNET)• Google is preparing to step up its fight against Amazon’s Echo. (FT)• Amazon isn’t sitting still and wants to put its Alexa virtual assistant in more and more devices. (Recode)• Superfast 5G wireless internet will be a big focal point of the convention. (Business Insider)• The proliferation of next-generation streaming services is a reminder of how far online video has come since the debut of Web TV 20 years ago, Neal Mohan, YouTube’s chief product officer writes. (Variety)Among the highlights from last night’s awards, where the uniform was black to acknowledge systemic harassment and sexism in Hollywood:• Oprah Winfrey, who received the Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievement, used her acceptance speech as a call to arms, saying, “A new day is on the horizon.” Speculation has arisen about whether she might run for president.• The actresses Debra Messing and Eva Longoria used red-carpet interviews to chastise the E! network on gender pay inequity.• Several actresses arrived with activists as their guests.• The actress Natalie Portman, introducing the best director award, said, “Here are the all-male nominees.”AdvertisementThe host Seth Meyers quipped, “It’s been years since a white man was this nervous in Hollywood.”Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The misconduct flyaround• An array of start-ups is offering resources for women and companies to halt harassment at work. (WaPo)• Maria Contreras-Sweet, an investor and former Obama administration official, is said to be the front-runner to buy The Weinstein Company, according to unnamed sources. (Deadline)• The National Limousine Association cited #MeToo in its latest ad attacking apps like Uber and Lyft. (NYT)• Carrie Gracie, a senior editor for BBC News, stepped down from as China editor in a protest against pay inequality, calling the broadcaster’s salary system “secretive and illegal.” (NYT)Revelations about more ties between the Kushner Companies and Israeli businesses like the insurer Menora Mivtachim have raised questions about Jared Kushner’s wealth and the complicated relationships that his family’s company has around the world. (Particularly given Mr. Kushner’s role as a top envoy for Middle Eastern peace, as well as a senior adviser in his father-in-law’s White House.)Caveat: The NYT says that recent deals don’t appear to violate federal ethics laws, and Mr. Kushner appears not to have been personally involved. He has sold stakes in some Kushner Companies properties, like the 666 Fifth Avenue office building in Midtown Manhattan.The pull quote, from Robert Weissman of the nonprofit government ethics group Public Citizen:“No one could ever imagine this scale of ongoing business interests, not in a local peanut farm or a hardware store but sprawling global businesses that give the president and his top adviser personal economic stakes in an astounding number of policy interests.”The Washington flyaround• Steve Bannon has backed away from remarks quoted in “Fire and Fury,” Michael Wolff’s book on the Trump White House. (NYT)Advertisement• “Fire and Fury” leads Amazon’s list of best-selling books. (Amazon)• Breitbart appears to need Mr. Bannon less than he needs it. (NYT)• Which big companies have been trying to poach Rob Porter, the White House’s staff secretary? (Axios)• The Brookings Institution will hold a discussion today, led by Ben Bernanke, on whether it’s time to permanently replace the 2 percent inflation target. (Brookings)• “Mr. Trump does not know how to use bilateral trade negotiations to create pressure for stronger multilateral rules,” argues Robert Zoellick, the former World Bank president who served in both Bush administrations. (WSJ)Mr. Trump will head to Tennessee today to promote the tax overhaul. But the farm industry has reason to dislike some of his economic policies.From Ana Swanson and Jim Tankersley of the NYT:New analyses of the tax law by economists at the Department of Agriculture suggest it could actually lower farm output in the years to come and effectively raise taxes on the lowest-earning farm households, while delivering large gains for the richest farmers.An industry breathing a sigh of relief: Analysts expect a tax windfall for retailers, especially domestically focused ones like Nordstrom and those targeting high-end consumers, according to the WSJ.• Celgene agreed to buy Impact Biomedicines, which makes blood disease drugs. It will pay between $1.1 billion and $7 billion, depending on performance. (WSJ)• Hershey and Ferrero are among those vying for Nestlé’s American candy business, according to unidentified people. (CNBC)Advertisement• KKR sold its stake in Valinge, a Swedish maker of flooring parts, to the family that controls Lego, for about $500 million. (FT)• Expect buying sprees from big tech companies this year, but relatively few I.P.O.s from Silicon Valley start-ups. (CNBC)• “Deal makers are now on the clock, especially if you believe that the bull market is in its waning stages and the Federal Reserve is serious about interest-rate hikes.” (Barron’s)The hedge fund’s first campaign for its Jana Impact Capital fund: Prod Apple into finding ways to reduce children’s addiction to iPhones.From the campaign’s public letter to the tech titan:The only difference between the changes we are advocating at Apple now and the type of change shareholders are better known for advocating is the time period over which they will enhance and protect value.Who’s helping Jana: The big California pension fund known as Calstrs. Also on board as advisers are the musician Sting and his wife, Trudie Styler; Sister Patricia Daly, a nun who took on Exxon Mobil over environmental issues; and Robert Eccles, a sustainability expert.The bigger picture: Jana is wading into corporate social responsibility, an area that Wall Street has only recently started dabbling in, the WSJ reports. Firms like TPG have raised social impact funds, but no major activist fund has started campaigns focused specifically on getting companies to act better from a social standpoint.He explains with some math in  this week’s Time, guest-edited by Bill Gates:• America’s population should grow by about 0.8 percent a year, between births and immigration.• Assuming annual gains in real GDP continue to be about 2 percent, that means the U.S. will deliver about 1.2 percent growth in per-capita GDP.What that means in real terms: In 25 years, GDP per head would go from $52,000 to $79,000.The pull quote: This game of economic miracles is in its early innings. Americans will benefit from far more and better “stuff” in the future. The challenge will be to have this bounty deliver a better life to the disrupted as well as to the disrupters. And on this matter, many Americans are justifiably worried.Speaking of Mr. Buffett: Now that class A shares in his Berkshire Hathaway conglomerate have surpassed $300,000 each — they closed on Friday at $301,525 — the WSJ looked at which of its products that could buy you.Then Dogecoin — the parody virtual currency inspired by an animal meme — may be your ticket to digital riches. Its market capitalization surpassed $2 billion on Saturday and was hovering just under that level this morning.AdvertisementA potentially big initial coin offering: The messaging app Telegram plans to create its own virtual currency and hopes to raise as much as $500 million in a pre-sale I.C.O., according to TechCrunch.• Marcelo Claure, the C.E.O. of Sprint, and Rajeev Misra, the head of SoftBank’s Vision Fund, will join Uber’s board following the ride-hailing giant’s share sale to a SoftBank-led group.• What happened when the U.S. tried to hold a Swiss banker personally accountable for creating accounts for Americans hiding money from tax collectors. (NYT)• Saudi Aramco, along with some of the kingdom’s biggest companies, will raise pay after a royal order extended handouts to government workers to ease discontent over prices. (Bloomberg)• Martin Shkreli is no longer around to deflect attention from a play by drug companies: to start prices high, then raise them incrementally. (NYT)• Mexico is rejecting one of the Trump administration’s Nafta demands: a provision that could block its truckers from making deliveries into the middle of the U.S. (NYT)• Indians are proving reluctant to switch to digital payments, despite intensive efforts by the government and global technology companies. (NYT)Advertisement• Sweatcoin, an app offering rewards for exercise, has raised about $1.6 million in financing and expects to close another round soon. (NYT)• The distribution system for legal marijuana sales in California is already showing signs of strain. (WaPo)• China’s investment banks have taken some big names public in Hong Kong, but they haven’t extended the strength in initial public offerings further. (Bloomberg)• SpaceX successfully launched a U.S. government spacecraft called Zuma and landed its rocket back on Earth. (CNBC)• Chinese movie audiences showed little love this past weekend for “Star Wars: The Last Jedi,” which has collected $1.2 billion worldwide. (Deadline)• The latest to be punished in the Libor benchmark-manipulation scandal is a former Royal Bank of Scotland trader, Neil Danziger. He was fined $338,000 and banned from working in finance. (Bloomberg)We’d love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Ligaya MishanHONOLULU — I can’t remember the first time I tasted poke, because in Hawaii, where I grew up, it was always there — in a plastic tub from Foodland or Tamura’s or Tamashiro’s, tossed on the table as a snack or a side dish. Never the main event, but always essential: pieces of raw fish seasoned simply, with a few strong ingredients to draw out the taste of the sea.As a New Yorker now, I was hopeful when poke shops began proliferating on the mainland a couple of years ago. I even found one to love, Sons of Thunder in Midtown Manhattan, whose owners have family roots in Hawaii. But elsewhere, the prevailing assembly-line, build-it-yourself model baffled me; there were too many mix-ins and toppings, including oddball interlopers like corn and kale, and the marinades were more like heavy sauces.What finally sent me over the edge was a highly lauded poke spot in Los Angeles. The fish was dropped into a bowl of marinade, and then the whole bowl was tipped over the rice. The dark stain of soy sauce soaked through, turning everything to salt.It made me sad to think that this is the only poke some mainlanders will ever know. So on a recent trip home, I decided to try to trace poke to its source: where it comes from, who makes it and how we eat it. I’m not arguing for some kind of authenticity or a return to the “true” poke. There isn’t one; grocery stores in Hawaii offer as many as four dozen varieties.But poke wouldn’t exist without the islands’ meld of cultures and reverence for the ocean, passed down by the ancients. To learn the history of the dish is to begin to understand a way of life.Please note that this is not a list of the best poke in Honolulu. Every kamaaina (local) has an opinion on the subject, from my best friend in third grade to my daughter’s hula teacher to the doctor who saw my mom at the Kaiser clinic in Moanalua and whose younger sister was in my high-school graduating class at Punahou, because that’s how small the islands are. (Mom’s fine, by the way.) I just revisited the old standbys and checked in on the new guard, and if I missed your favorite: Sorry, brah.As Martha Cheng recounts in “The Poke Cookbook,” long before contact with the West, native Hawaiians ate i‘a maka, raw fish, kneaded with the fingers (lomi) or cut crosswise in pieces (the literal meaning of the word poke). They added salt to preserve the fish, crunchy limu (seaweed) for texture and brine, and inamona, buttery kukui-nut hearts, roasted and pounded into rubble.Traditionally the fish came from the shallower waters along the reef. Keoni Chang, the corporate chef of Foodland, a statewide supermarket chain founded by an Irish immigrant in 1948, remembers that his great-grandfather ate poke made of oio (bonefish), caught on the flats, the flesh roughly scraped. It was more of a poi-like paste than the slashed cubes of poke that mainlanders eat today, and funkier; in his memory, his great-grandfather always washed it down with Miller Lite.In the 1970s, local preference shifted to the larger fish of the deeps, above all ahi (yellowfin tuna), typically anointed with shoyu (Japanese soy sauce) instead of sea salt. This was in part because of changing demographics: Japanese immigrants, with their own custom of eating raw fish, started coming to Hawaii in 1868 to work the sugar plantations. As of the 2010 census, 57 percent of the state’s residents were of Asian descent, the largest groups being Filipino, Japanese and Chinese; the poke that locals eat is as much of a mix as they are.Twenty-three years ago, Judy Sakuma, a native of Vietnam who fled Saigon during the war, and her husband, Willy, began selling shoyu ahi poke from a cooler under a parking garage off Kapahulu Avenue, not far from Waikiki Beach. Now she and her daughter, Kim Brug, offer eight kinds of poke at Ono Seafood, a small, eternally besieged storefront with a couple of picnic tables, next to that same garage.Her shoyu ahi is a marriage of Hawaii and Japan, given a sheen of sesame oil and a “secret shoyu” made with premium soy sauce and ingredients known only to her and Ms. Brug, and seasoned with skinny, snaking strands of limu, inamona and a faint but menacing tattoo of chile. Better yet is the spicy ahi, veiled in mayonnaise with a streak of heat. Half the kick comes from ginger, and the pop from tiny beads of masago (capelin roe).Fresh ahi is delivered daily and turned into heaps of translucent ruby cubes. (Tako, or octopus, poke is also available.) Order a “bowl,” and you receive a foam box of rice and poke, no more, no less. The rice itself is impeccably fluffy and exhaling warmth, just enough to leave the fish in a cool blush. Toppings are do-it-yourself from a case by the counter, stocked with seaweed salad, pickled onions, Korean taegu (spicy-sweet dried cuttlefish), tsukemono (Japanese pickles) and boiled peanuts. But you don’t need them.Fish flags — which fishermen fly over their boats when sailing back to harbor after the day’s catch — hang from the second-floor railing of a strip mall in Moiliili. Up the stairs is Ahi Assassins, run by Joshua Schade, a third-generation fisherman from Kahaluu on Oahu’s windward side, and his longtime girlfriend, Erika Luna. On their front door a bumper sticker declares: “Keep the country country!”For Mr. Schade, poke is inextricable from his life as a fisherman and all its risks. Two summers ago, his boat sank. It was the Fourth of July; no one saw the flares. He swam two miles home in the dark, and brought the Coast Guard back to rescue his father and two uncles.From the moment the fish leaves the boat to the moment it’s served, at most two days pass. Its flesh is a barely muted incarnadine, sliced in larger hunks than typically found elsewhere, and beautifully tender.Any of a dozen types of poke may be on hand, including shoyu garlic with crisp, clarifying arcs of white onion; pake, Hawaiian for Chinese, contoured with ginger and scallions; and “lunatic,” named after Ms. Luna (“if you had to live with her, you’d know,” Mr. Schade said) and essentially spicy ahi, only with sriracha untempered by mayonnaise.Ahi Assassins was supposed to be just a fish store. (There are no tables.) But after the owners invited the neighborhood to an opening-day blessing in the parking lot, with food and poke for everyone, people came by looking for more. “It’s not just the food,” Mr. Schade said. “It’s that feeling like you walked into my house.”Junichiro and Ryojiro Tsuchiya, brothers from Kawasaki, Japan, started Maguro Brothers in 2014 as a stand along the back wall of the Kekaulike Market in Chinatown, with a few tables for diners. (They’ve since added a takeout window in Waikiki.) Junichiro spent a decade working at Tokyo’s famed Tsukiji fish market, and the seafood here, fresh from the nearby Honolulu Fish Auction — the largest in the United States and the only one to sell fresh tuna — is pristine and exactingly cut. Slabs of ahi sit in a glass case, with thin white rings like a tree trunk’s and a deep, thrilling red at the center.The recipes lean Japanese, with flavors like ume-shiso, tangy and bright from salted plum, and a tumble of hamachi (yellowtail) stung by wasabi. The brothers’ take on spicy ahi is creamier, with more sweetness to the mayonnaise and a milder, if persistent heat. But they, too, honor Hawaiian tradition in a version strewn with little pronged fronds of limu. It tastes brinier than others around town, and closer to the sea.Some of Honolulu’s longest-standing poke destinations are grocery stores, like Tamashiro Market, run by three brothers, Cyrus, Guy and Sean Tamashiro. Their grandparents opened the original store in 1941, in Hilo, on the Big Island; after it was destroyed by the 1946 tsunami, they moved to Oahu and set up shop in Kalihi.They were prescient: The address is just a mile from what is today the Honolulu Fish Auction, where the Tamashiro brothers buy seafood before dawn six days a week. They make poke from almost everything they get their hands on: surf clams, kajiki (blue marlin), nairagi (striped marlin) and kawa kawa (mackerel tuna), whose flesh is the lushest red.Strong flavors are ascendant here, with nuances that only a kamaaina might understand, like ahi with white onions (clean and sweet) versus ahi with green onions (mellower). Their tako poke, made with octopus caught in local waters, is lovely: The octopus is first lomi-ed, or massaged, with salt, then steamed into submission.At Tamura’s Fine Wine & Liquors in Kaimuki — one of six locations across the islands — the poke counter is tucked at the back but fills the whole wall. As at Tamashiro’s, the variety of poke is giddying, including dried aku (skipjack tuna), concentrated and blood-rich; smoked marlin; clams, oysters and mussels; nearly a dozen variations with ahi; and even pipikaula (Hawaiian beef jerky). Some of the seafood has been frozen, as noted on signs, but most is fresh from the auction.Recipes are straightforward, with minute shadings. Here is ahi with inamona and sea salt; there, ahi with limu and sea salt. Shoyu is calibrated with little more than ginger. As for “Tamura’s secret sauce,” the manager I spoke with laughed and said, “I can’t tell you.”The Foodland near my mom’s house, one of more than two dozen statewide, has a sign over the poke counter that says “Hawaii’s home for poke,” and it is — the never-fail poke you run to the store for when friends announce they’re stopping by.The shoyu ahi is strong and just salty enough (ask for the shoyu to be packed in a separate container, to add at home); the spicy ahi has a worthy heat. The recipes for all outlets are overseen by Mr. Chang, a graduate of the Kamehameha Schools and the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y.There’s nothing ceremonial about his approach. He uses ingredients like sea asparagus, truffle oil and gochujang, and makes a deconstructed California-roll poke with avocado, furikake and sriracha, one of the stores’ best-sellers. And he’s not against the mainland poke craze, “so long as you take time to understand the history and apply common sense and restraint.”“If it’s amazingly delicious — ” he said, and trailed off. “It’s a free country.”AHI ASSASSINS2570 South Beretania Street, second floor (University Avenue), Moiliili; 808-439-4045; ahiassassins.comFOODLANDAt Ala Moana Center, 1450 Ala Moana Boulevard (Piikoi Street), Ala Moana, and other locations; 808-949-5044; foodland.comMAGURO BROTHERSAt Kekaulike Market, 1039 Kekaulike Street, No. 113 (North King Street), Chinatown, and another location; 808-259-7100; instagram.com/magurobrothershawaiiONO SEAFOOD747 Kapahulu Avenue (Hunter Street), Kapahulu; 808-732-4806; instagram.com/ono.seafoodTAMASHIRO MARKET802 North King Street (Palama Street), Kalihi; 808-841-8047; tamashiromarket.comTAMURA’S FINE WINE & LIQUORS3496 Waialae Avenue (10th Avenue), Kaimuki, and other locations; 808-735-7100; tamurasfinewine.comFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.cookingAdvertisementBy ERIC ASIMOVJAN. 5, 2018
It turns out that in beer-drinking circles I would be considered unfashionable.Not because I insist on wearing cargo shorts or dad jeans. With the exception of Garrett Oliver, the brewmaster of Brooklyn Brewery, what do beer nerds know about stylish clothing anyway?I don’t care much about fashion, either. But I do care about the beer I drink, which apparently would be considered hopelessly uninteresting by those who follow the latest trends.I’m talking about wonderful, thirst-quenching, conversation-inducing beers, the type that you can drink a lot of almost without noticing. Brown ale, for example. Recently, the beer panel tasted 20 examples of American brown ale, which is something of an afterthought in a beer culture awash in more au courant styles.For the tasting, Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Clay Risen, deputy editor of the Op-Ed page, who has written regularly about spirits and beer, and Orr Shtuhl, a designer at Wirecutter, a product review site owned by The Times, who also writes about beer.AdvertisementCurrent American beer culture seems to revolve around a couple of styles: sour beers, which can be altogether wonderful and fascinating, and American India pale ales, which have dominated the craft beer market for so long that it’s a wonder they have not yet fallen out of fashion.AdvertisementI cannot say I share the taste for these I.P.A.s, which, with their emphasis on the imperious flavors of American hops, are the equivalent of oaky California chardonnays of the 1990s.Brown ales and like-minded styles — including straightforward lagers, pilsners and porters — to name a few, are very different sorts of beers. They occupy subtler realms, quenching thirst with pure flavors and perhaps a snappy zestiness in the case of pilsner and a rich depth in the case of porter. They are not flamboyant styles that wow with complexity or make themselves the centers of attention. They simply satisfy.“It’s the kind of beer that gets left behind in our I.P.A. culture,” Orr said.Clay had a more charitable explanation. “In the ’90s, everybody made brown ales or porters,” he said. “It makes sense that a new generation would want to do something different.”In the 1970s and ’80s, early craft brewers were motivated by what seemed lost. Back then, American beer culture was dominated by the insipid lagers of the big brewers. Dozens of classic styles, developed over centuries of brewing, had largely been abandoned. Porters, amber ales, India pale ales, brown ales — English styles mostly — had been read about more than tasted.Inspired by England’s Campaign for Real Ale movement, many American craft brewers set about resurrecting these styles first. Their success, coupled with similar efforts in other countries, encouraged further experimentation, with German and Belgian styles and beyond, as well as a fair amount of creative boundary-pushing.Some of the results were augmented styles, in which characteristics were exaggerated, sometimes to good effect, but often beyond balance. Hoppy I.P.A.s, for example, became double or even triple I.P.A.s.Over time, the trend toward amplification spawned a counter-movement promoting session beers, brews that toned down the volume and alcohol without sacrificing flavor. American brown ales, which tend mostly to be in the range of 5 to 6 percent alcohol, do not quite fit the definition of session beers, which typically are around 4 percent. They also have more discernible hop flavors than their classic English counterpart, and occasionally are brewed with additions like nuts or seeds. But brown ales are relaxed and easygoing, pure and pleasing, with flavors that are subtle rather than flamboyant.AdvertisementOur favorites in the tasting all leaned toward the textbook style: malty, with flavors of chocolate, coffee or, sometimes, dried fruit. Mostly these brown ales were dry and nutty, although sometimes they left an impression of sweetness — Clay found that some had a surprising flavor of strawberry candy.We also noted a few examples of experimentation, some more successful than others. Dogfish Head’s Indian Brown Ale, as its name indicates, combines the characteristics of brown ale with those of an I.P.A., quite successfully in our opinion. It was fuller bodied with more alcohol and hoppy bitterness than in a classic brown ale, but it also had discernible malt and chocolate flavors. Over all, it was well integrated enough to be No. 5 among our favorites.Other similar efforts were so dominated by hops that we had no clue to the style of the beer in the glass.Now, I should point out that beer tastings, particularly with styles like brown ale, have gotten complicated for us. For these blind tastings, we include only beers that we have purchased from retail outlets.Some craft beers are distributed nationally, but many of the best are available only in various local markets. In previous years, we could order beers from different parts of the country. But a recent crackdown on interstate shipping of wine applies to beer as well. So for this tasting, we were restricted to those American brown ales that were available in the New York market.Even so, our No. 1 beer was the Humboldt Brown Hemp Ale, from Arcata, Calif., which was brewed with hemp seeds. The hemp supposedly adds an herbal component, but for us the beer seemed quite classic, dry with a creamy texture and flavors of malt, chocolate and dried fruits.No. 2 was Brooklyn Brown Ale, brewed in Utica, N.Y., which had pure, grainy flavors, while No. 3, Bell’s Best Brown Ale from Comstock, Mich., was balanced and subtle. Black Hog’s Granola Brown Ale, from Oxford, Conn., No. 4 on our list, was actually brewed with granola. It was slightly tart, with a tobacco flavor and a refreshing bitterness that prompts the next sip.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Others worth mentioning in the tasting include the rich and creamy Maduro Brown Ale from Cigar City in Tampa, Fla., which was brewed with oatmeal, and the smoky, textured Georgia Brown from SweetWater in Atlanta.We also had three outliers at the bottom of our top 10, including the Nut Brown Lager from Kelso in Brooklyn — which as a lager rather than an ale really did not fit the category — but we liked its malty, cola flavors; the Durty Mud Season Hoppy Brown Ale from Smuttynose in Hampton, N.H., which was full-bodied and strong at 8.4 percent alcohol but balanced and delicious despite its assertiveness; and the Hazelnut Brown Nectar from Rogue in Newport, Ore., which was on the edge of sweetness, with flavors of buttercrunch candy and hazelnuts.AdvertisementAware that our choice was limited and that our tasting was more of a local cross-section than a complete look, Orr mentioned three beers that he wished had been in our tasting: Boffo Brown Ale from Dark Horse in Marshall, Mich., Brown Ale from Newburgh in Newburgh, N.Y., and Brown Ale from Duck-Rabbit in Farmville, N.C.We all found the tasting stimulating, even if the style supposedly does not inspire much excitement among beer nerds. Well-made, subtly delicious and refreshing are high accolades, as far as I am concerned, and brown ale fits that bill. Fortunately, many brewers still seem to feel the same way.★★★½ HUMBOLDT BROWN ALE BREWED WITH HEMP SEEDS ARCATA, CALIF., 5.7 PERCENT ($1.75, 12 ounces)Dry, creamy and well balanced with lingering flavors of malt, chocolate and dried fruits.★★★ BROOKLYN BROWN ALE UTICA, N.Y., 5.6 PERCENT ($2, 12 ounces)Relaxed and pure with flavors of grain, coffee and chocolate.★★★ BELL’S BEST BROWN ALE COMSTOCK, MICH., 5.8 PERCENT ($2.25, 12 ounces)Balanced, subtle and easy to drink, with flavors of coffee and chocolate.★★½ BLACK HOG GRANOLA BROWN ALE OXFORD, CONN., 5.7 PERCENT ($3, 12 ounces)Slightly tart, with flavors of coffee and tobacco, and a bitterness that lingers pleasantly.★★½ DOGFISH HEAD INDIAN BROWN ALE WILMINGTON, DEL., 7.2 PERCENT ($2.50, 12 ounces)Full-bodied and rich, with flavors of chocolate and malt, well-integrated hop bitterness and a touch of heat.★★½ CIGAR CITY MADURO BROWN ALE TAMPA, FLA., 5.5 PERCENT ($2, 12 ounces)Rich, creamy aromas, with flavors of chocolate, toffee and grain.Advertisement★★½ SWEETWATER GEORGIA BROWN, ATLANTA, 5.8 PERCENT ($2.25, 12 ounces)Rich and thickly textured, with smoky flavors of chocolate and grain.★★ KELSO NUT BROWN LAGER BROOKLYN, N.Y., 5.75 PERCENT ($2.50, 12 ounces)Well balanced, with flavors of malt, cola and dried fruits.★★ SMUTTYNOSE DURTY MUD SEASON HOPPY BROWN ALE, HAMPTON, N.H., 8.4 PERCENT ($2, 12 ounces)Strong and full-bodied, with flavors of malt, dried fruits and sourdough bread.★★ ROGUE HAZELNUT BROWN NECTAR, NEWPORT, ORE., 5.6 PERCENT ($2.50, 12 ounces)Not quite sweet, but on the edge, with flavors of buttercrunch, spice cake and hazelnuts.WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings, up to four stars, reflect the panel’s reaction to the beers, which were tasted with names concealed. The beers represent a selection generally available in good retail shops and restaurants and on the internet. Prices are those paid in the New York region. Tasting coordinator: Bernard Kirsch.Recipe Pairing: No-Smoker PastramiA few months ago an intriguing recipe landed among my emails: pastrami made at home without a smoker. It came from La Boîte, a spice emporium in Hell’s Kitchen. The tasting of straightforward, eminently quaffable brown ales provided an opportunity to try my hand at pastrami. The recipe, which takes almost a week, mostly unattended, turned out extremely well. The essential ingredients are smoked salt and Prague powder (the curing salt sodium nitrite). Both are sold online. With the beer along for the ride, the result — reheated and served with warm sauerkraut, or sliced on rye with mustard and sauerkraut — made for superb cold-weather feasting. Keep the pastrami in mind as you plan for the Super Bowl. FLORENCE FABRICANTFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Write to Eric Asimov at asimov@nytimes.com, and follow him on Twitter: @EricAsimov.A version of this review appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D8 of the New York edition with the headline: The Less Popular Ale, Please.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
New York Today By                     
 VIVIAN WANG
 
JAN. 5, 2018
Good morning on this frigid Friday.We survived the snow, but now comes the ice, so travel safely and leave yourself extra time. Most mass transit has resumed, but there are some  service changes or delays, so check schedules for the subway, Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road, New Jersey Transit, and NYC Ferry boats before heading out. Flights resumed at La Guardia Airport around 7 p.m. yesterday, and are expected to resume at Kennedy Airport at 7 a.m. today.The purpose of Radio City Music Hall is in its name: It’s one of the country’s most legendary concert and performance venues.But have you ever watched a basketball game there?In honor of the hall’s more than eight decades years at the heart of New York’s cultural scene — it first opened on Dec. 27, 1932 — we revisited what else Radio City Music Hall has been, or, in some cases, what it almost was, before it became what it is today.Opera House: In the early 1930s, there were talks of turning the parcel of land that would become Radio City Music Hall into the new home of the Metropolitan Opera, said Valerie Paley, the chief historian at the New-York Historical Society.AdvertisementBut after the stock market crashed, John D. Rockefeller Jr., the property’s owner, decided instead to build what would become Rockefeller Center, with a magnificent theater for the people at its heart, according to the hall’s official history.AdvertisementMovie Theater: Some of the most famous films in history opened at Radio City: the original “King Kong,” “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” “To Kill a Mockingbird” and Disney’s “The Lion King,” to name a few.Ms. Paley, a lifelong New Yorker, recalled going to see Mary Poppins, which also premiered there, “a whole bunch of times.”Sports Arena: The first sporting event to be held at Radio City was a light-heavyweight boxing match that took place on Jan. 15, 2000.Sports didn’t return to the hall until 2004, when the Liberty, New York’s WNBA team, played six games there while the Republican National Convention took over their home court at Madison Square Garden, according to a story in The Times.Fans might have missed the stadium, but they at least got their court: The actual court from the Garden was transported to Radio City and put onstage, The Times reported.Mall? Theme Park? American Stock Exchange?: It seems unthinkable today, but Radio City was almost demolished in 1978, after plummeting attendance threw the hall into debt.The Rockefellers considered turning the space into a mall or a theme park, the former New York Times public editor Daniel Okrent wrote in his book about the history of Rockefeller Center. A Times article from the time said it might be the new home of the American Stock Exchange.AdvertisementBut New Yorkers rallied to save their beloved hall, and its interior was designated a landmark in March 1978.Kent Barwick, the chair of the Landmarks Preservation Commission at the time, recalled how the city came together. Calls jammed the switchboards at Rockefeller Center. The Rockettes danced on the steps of City Hall.“Radio City Music Hall is something that people felt belonged to them,” Mr. Barwick said.Here’s what else is happening:Let the digging out begin — if we can even muster up the warmth to do it.Blue skies and sunshine are in store for today and Saturday, but with highs near 15 and lows around 9, it will feel like (gasp!) 5 or 10 below zero with the wind.A wind chill advisory remains in effect until Saturday morning. H at and gloves are an absolute must.Sunday will be a touch warmer, but we’re not in the clear just yet; more snow may be on the way Monday evening.• The first major snowstorm of the season struck New York City, slowing commutes and shutting down schools. [New York Times]• Here’s what yesterday’s snowstorm looked like on your neighbors’ Instagram feeds, a nice reminder that while weather can be scary, New York City is always beautiful. [New York Times]Advertisement• Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has proposed replacing state income tax with a payroll tax as a way to push back against the federal tax plan. Now all that’s left to do is figure out how the plan would actually work. [New York Times]• The death toll in last week’s Bronx fire rose to 13 after a man who had been critically injured in the blaze was taken off life support. [New York Times]• The Metropolitan Museum of Art is changing its pay-as-you-wish admission policy for out of state visitors for the first time in over 50 years. [New York Times]• Each new year, 100 freshly sworn-in New York State judges take a weeklong legal crash course before taking the bench. [New York Times]• Criminal activity, including prostitution, violence and drug use, occurred more than half of the hotels that the city used to shelter homeless families. [New York Times]• The two U.S. attorneys who will assume office in Manhattan and Brooklyn next Friday will inherit major cases likely to shape their own legacies. [New York Times]• A Brooklyn teen was charged with manslaughter and assault after punching a 65-year-old man on the subway platform, resulting in his death. [New York Times]• Councilman Corey Johnson, a white man, was elected City Council Speaker, raising questions about race and power in the New York City Council. [New York Times]Advertisement• Brendan Byrne, the former governor of New Jersey, has died at 93. [New York Times]• Governor Cuomo announced that he plans to convert a federally owned site along Jamaica Bay that used to house city landfills into a 407-acre state park. [Daily News]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Strong winds tore the facade off a senior housing center in Rockland County during the snowstorm. [CBS New York]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Parachute Jump to Prexy’s”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• It’s your last chance to see the “Mummies” exhibition, featuring preserved bodies from ancient Egypt and pre-Columbian Peru, at the American Museum of Natural History on the Upper West Side through Sunday. [Times and prices vary]• The Manhattan Chamber Players perform works by Leos Janáček, Vivian Fung and others in “Amour Cruel Massivemuse” at the Creative Culture Center in the West Village. 7:30 p.m. [$30, includes wine and beer]• Watch professional bull riders buck the ring at Madison Square Garden. 7:45 p.m., through Sunday [Tickets start at $22]• “50 First Jokes,” an annual performance at which 50 stand-up comics tell their first new gags of the year, at the Bell House in Gowanus, Brooklyn. 8 p.m. [$15, tickets here]• Islanders host Penguins, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Knicks at Heat, 8 p.m. (MSG).• Alternate-side parking is suspended for snow removal.• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday• Still pondering what to do with your holiday tree? You can “treecycle” it at drop-off locations across the five boroughs as part of MulchFest, which continues through Sunday. 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. [Free]Advertisement• Families can meet suffragists who won the vote in New York in 1917 and learn about their battle for the ballot, during “Living History: Votes for Women!” at the New-York Historical Society on the Upper West Side. Noon, through Sunday. [Prices vary]• Children can celebrate La Befana, one of Italy’s oldest holiday traditions, with family-friendly activities at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center on Staten Island. 2 p.m. [$5 children; $10 adults]• Ring in 2018 with artists and change makers during an evening of performance, film, storytelling and scholarship, part of “Target First Saturdays” at the Brooklyn Museum. 5 to 11 p.m. [Free]• Nets host Celtics, 6 p.m. (YES). Rangers at Coyotes, 8 p.m. (MSG).Sunday• Escape the cold in the Butterfly Conservatory, home to hundreds of butterflies, at the American Museum of Natural History on the Upper West Side. 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. [Prices vary]• Children can sing and dance to the music of Disney and Pixar during a family-friendly concert at Brooklyn Bowl in Williamsburg. 11:30 a.m. [$12]• Join art historians and curators for “Michelangelo: Divine Draftsman,” where you’ll explore the influences behind his major works, at the Met on the Upper East Side. 2 p.m. [$25 suggested admission]• Close the weekend out with laughs at “As You Will:  Shakespearean Improv,” a comedy show spinning off the bard’s writing, at the Peoples Improv Theater in Flatiron. 7 p.m. [$8]• Islanders vs. Devils, 1 p.m. (MSG). Knicks at Mavericks, 7 p.m. (MSG). Rangers at Golden Knights, 9:30 p.m. (MSG+).Advertisement• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.The rescue of Radio City in 1978 wasn’t just a victory for New Yorkers who wanted to see a movie, show or the Rockettes on that storied stage.It was also a major victory for preservationists and historians.Radio City was the first big test for whether the city could landmark the interiors, in addition to the exteriors, of buildings, said Kate Wood, a preservationist and co-author of a book on New York’s interior landmarks.Legally, the answer was clear: The 1965 New York City Landmarks Law was amended in 1973 to include interiors.But until Radio City, the landmarks commission had never applied the law to the inside of a commercial building without the owner’s cooperation, Ms. Wood said.Radio City was different. Rockefeller Center’s owners were determined to tear down the hall. When the city tried to landmark it, they sued.“They brought out the big legal gun,” Ms. Wood said. “It could’ve overturned the entire landmarks law and the ability to protect any interiors.”When the landmarks commission prevailed, Ms. Wood said, it reaffirmed the group’s mission.“To me it’s that moment of realization that the value of these spaces is not just in dollars,” she said. “It’s what they mean to New Yorkers and the spirit of New York.”Ms. Wood said Radio City’s interior is the city’s most extensive interior landmark, protecting everything from the auditorium to the grand staircase to the bathrooms.Advertisement“To me, it’s worth buying a ticket for a show or going on a tour of Radio City just to go into the bathrooms,” she said. “They’re bathrooms like you’ve never seen before.”New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Alexandra S. Levine contributed reporting.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 2, 2018
Good Tuesday and happy new year!• Bitcoin’s value jumped as Peter Thiel’s venture firm emerged as an investor in the currency.• Regulatory concerns sink Ant Financial’s purchase of MoneyGram.• The Nasdaq Composite closed above 7,000 for the first time.• Breakingviews thinks 2018 will be a frothy, frustrating year.• The analyst Gene Munster thinks Amazon should make a big leap into brick-and-mortar retail.Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.The value of the digital currency leapt about $1,000 this afternoon. Why? Turns out that the venture capitalist and his firm are believers.AdvertisementFrom Rob Copeland of the WSJ:Founders Fund, the venture-capital firm co-founded by Peter Thiel, has amassed hundreds of millions of dollars of the volatile cryptocurrency, people familiar with the matter said. The bet has been spread across several of the firm’s most recent funds, the people said, including one that began investing in mid-2017 and made bitcoin one of its first investments.As of this writing, Bitcoin is valued at about $14,655.Why buy Bitcoin? Founders Fund is, after all, a venture firm rather than a hedge fund. But the firm apparently believes that start-up valuations currently are sky-high, while digital currencies will continue to climb in worth.AdvertisementHas Founders Fund made money? The WSJ reports, citing its unnamed sources, that the firm bought about $15 million in Bitcoin and that its stake is now worth hundreds of millions of dollars.— Michael J. de la MercedSo much for Jack Ma’s charm offensive.United States officials have effectively killed Ant Financial’s $1.2 billion bid to buy MoneyGram.Ant Financial, the electronic payments company controlled by Mr. Ma, became the latest Chinese firm to have its acquisition of an American company fall apart because it was unable to secure approval from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or Cfius.The deal failed despite a charm offensive by Jack Ma, the Chinese internet. Shortly after President Trump won the 2016 election, Mr. Ma famously stood with the president-elect in Trump Tower in New York City and pledged that his e-commerce empire would help create one million American jobs.The attempted purchase of MoneyGram was seen as a test of the Trump administration’s political and regulatory approach to China, and the deal’s failure could spell trouble for other Chinese companies considering major acquisitions.The strong flow of Chinese money into the United States has prompted growing worries. Lawmakers from both parties have introduced legislation calling for greater scrutiny of Chinese investments in the United States. They are pushing for a significant expansion of Cfius, a multiagency panel that reviews foreign deals for potential threats to national security.Of the deal, Richard Beales of Breakingviews writes:“It would have been seen as something of a watershed for a successful upstart from the People’s Republic to get its hands on a piece of Uncle Sam’s payments infrastructure.“For Trump and China critics in his administration, that may have been the wrong message, especially when a similar deal in the other direction would surely come up against Beijing’s tight restrictions on foreign ownership in China’s financial system. Rather than opening the door – arguably the old American way of showing how things ought to be done – CFIUS this time kept it closed. If it’s a rebuke, it’s one that’s conveniently unlikely to provoke great resentment.”MoneyGram’s shares are down 6.8 percent after the close.The Nasdaq Composite rose 1.5 percent Tuesday to close above 7,000 for the first time.AdvertisementThe gain was driven by Netflix, Facebook, Google-parent Alphabet and Apple, which jumped between 18 percent and 4.8 percent.Tuesday’s rally follows a 28 percent gain for the Nasdaq last year. That beat the 25 percent gain for the Dow Jones industrial average and the 19 percent rise for the Standard & Poor’s 500 index.So how stretched are valuations for the Nasdaq? As of Friday, the index was trading at 27.55 times the last 12 months of earnings, well above the S.&P. 500′s level of 18.27 times earnings, according to the WSJ’s Ben Eisen. But the Nasdaq’s current price-to-earnings ratio remains well below 72.2, which it hit in March 2000.Extra Credit: Yes, Apple, Microsoft and Amazon.com drove the Nasdaq’s run to 7,000. But Riot Blockchain saw the biggest percentage gain between the Nasdaq’s first close above 6,000 in April to its close above 7,000 on Tuesday, writes the WSJ’s Chelsey Dulaney. Shares of Riot “surged more than 640 percent during that period, with the bulk of those gains coming after the company switched its focus to investing in blockchain technology October.”Shot: Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, won’t run for re-election, according to the NYT. That gives Mitt Romney — former presidential candidate, former Massachusetts governor, former private equity mogul, current (and increasingly frequent) Trump critic — a chance to run for the seat.Chaser:
            The screams you hear are coming from the PR department at Bain Capital. https://t.co/1AukOXT3pS — Michael J. de la MercedMoney is cheap, the global economy is gaining momentum and markets are at records. “Yet things look less reassuring close up,” writes Quentin Webb of Breakingviews.“The populist anger that enabled Trump and Brexit is still simmering, fueled by inequality, disruption, immigration and the echo chambers of social media. An unpredictable America is no longer committed to advancing a rules-based, liberal world order. China is growing increasingly assertive under President Xi Jinping, while Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is flexing his muscles around the Gulf. The risk of a conflagration on the Korean Peninsula is all too real. Business is grappling with self-inflicted scandals and activist attacks, and a backlash is building against Big Tech’s overweening power.”With that as the backdrop, here are a few of Breakingviews’ predictions for 2018:In investing• “For the first time in years, rich-world bond issuance will outstrip buying by the Fed and friends,” and “bond vigilantes will rise from the dead.”• “Passive funds will, despite their name, dethrone a chief executive.”In tech• “In tech, investors can consider a tasty new dish: SLAW, for Spotify, Lyft, Airbnb and WeWork, four prospective candidates for public life.”Advertisement• Apple’s position as a privacy-sensitive hardware specialist will give it some shelter from mounting anger at Silicon Valley’s power and lack of accountability.— Stephen GrocerWe’re just two days into 2018, and we already have a huge M.&A. prediction, courtesy of the analyst Gene Munster.From his note yesterday:Getting the timing on this is difficult, but seeing the value of the combination is easy. Amazon believes the future of retail is a mix of mostly online and some offline. Target is the ideal offline partner for Amazon for two reasons, shared demographic and manageable but comprehensive store count.It’s a big, if logical, assumption given the ever-expanding empire that Amazon has been assembling — one that has put more and more industry incumbents on their back heels.Target shares were up nearly 4 percent as of this afternoon.Could Amazon afford Target?Short answer: Yes.Long answer: Yes, but it’d be pretty expensive. Target’s market capitalization as of Tuesday morning was nearly $37 billion. Amazon had about $24.3 billion in cash and short-term investments on its balance sheet as of Sept. 30, meaning that the company would have to borrow a hefty amount.Assuming a 20 percent takeover premium, Target would be almost $40 billion.Amazon could pay in stock as well as cash, but it hasn’t struck a big deal using stock since its takeover of Zappos in 2009. And stock remains an expensive form of currency, though that hasn’t stopped the likes of Disney from stock deals.(Mr. Munster asserts that a deal is affordable because the cost of a Target acquisition is just 8 percent of Amazon’s market cap. Obviously, I think it’s a bit more complicated than that.)AdvertisementThe big caveat (other than price)Obviously, it’s antitrust. Mr. Munster notes that a combined Amazon-Target would only have about a 13 percent share of the overall American retail market, compared to Walmart’s 23 percent.But it’s hard to determine at the moment what the Trump administration’s yardstick for market concentration is:• AT&T and Time Warner say that their proposed deal is a vertical deal that falls within the bounds of acceptable deals. The Justice Department has sued to block that.• Disney and Fox have announced a deal that would inevitably lead to lots of layoffs. President Trump has praised that transaction as potentially “great for jobs.”“As for antitrust, the Trump administration won’t do any favors for Jeff Bezos, but the market share numbers suggest the deal will be approved,” Mr. Munster writes. That’s a potentially big assumption.— Michael J. de la MercedKevin McLaughlin of The Information reports that the two companies “are actively working to replace Oracle software running on critical business systems with open-source database software alternatives, and have made significant progress toward getting off Oracle entirely,” citing people familiar with the matter.“A mass exodus from the Oracle database isn’t likely anytime soon. Yet losing Amazon and Salesforce as customers could pose major problems for Oracle, as it could provide a road map for other large companies that also are looking to cut costs by jettisoning Oracle database software in favor of open-source database alternatives.”Oracle’s shares are down nearly 2 percent. They had been trading about 1 percent higher before the report.— Stephen GrocerThe Dow Jones industrial average jumped 25 percent in 2017. Does that mean investors should turn bearish on stocks this year? The answer is no if history is any indicator, LPL Financial’s Ryan Detrick points out.
            Dow up +25% in '17 ... time to look for a pullback?Since '50, up >25% YTD 10 times.Higher next year 8 times with 6 of those times up double digits.Avg +12.6% vs avg yearly return of +8.5%.In other words, don't turn bearish simply because '17 was up a lot.        Also, is the first day of trading predictive of the stock market’s performance for the full year?
            Does the 1st trading day of the year matter? Sounds random, but ... Past 20 years, on the 1st day of a new year the S&P 500 has been higher 10 times and lower 10 times.Full year return if up the first day? +14.2%.Full year return if down the first day? -0.6%        — Stephen GrocerAdvertisementIf you couldn’t recall last year’s highlights over the recent holidays, Andrew can remind you with his annual year-end column (the humor of which is his and his alone). A sample:The seating chart is, of course, always a bit complicated. We had to keep Jeffrey Bezos of Amazon from the dais to prevent Mr. Trump’s Twitter war with him from interrupting the festivities. And we had heard that Mr. Bezos had a practical joke planned: He was going to tell Mr. Trump that he had chosen Mexico City as Amazon’s second headquarters.But it’s a new year, and here are some important story lines we’ll be keeping our eyes on:• Now that the tax fight is over, the White House is turning to trade. Will Gary Cohn and Steven Mnuchin be able to tame President Trump’s hard-line tendencies?Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Can Congress make progress on the many, many other issues it’s facing?• SoftBank did its Uber deal. Will the ride-hailing giant make further strides toward going public this year? (Maybe not.) And what will Masa Son of SoftBank and his $100 billion Vision Fund get up to?• What other industries will Amazon disrupt this year? And how much bigger can Mr. Bezos’s behemoth get?• North Korea is trying to drive a wedge between South Korea and the U.S. And it seems to be working. How will Mr. Trump — and the global economy — respond?• Stevie Cohen is finding takers for his new hedge fund. But how much presence will he retain in the industry?• In the world of M. & A. fights, who will AT&T or the Justice Department prevail? Broadcom or Qualcomm? And will Disney and Fox get their deal done?And the Trump administration’s deregulatory push looks to be a reason for that — even if skeptics question whether rolling back government rules stimulates corporate growth.Corporate leaders always cite “uncertainty” as a reason to hold back on capital expenditures or transformative acquisitions. And fewer than half of the respondents in the National Association of Manufacturers’ most recent survey said they faced an “unfavorable business climate.”AdvertisementYet some see a bigger phenomenon at work. This is what Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics told the NYT:“The fundamental backdrop here is that this is a global synchronized expansion lifting everyone’s spirits, from Tokyo to New York.”The tax flyaround• Corporate America’s great loophole scavenger hunt has begun. (NYT)• China has responded to the tax law by temporarily exempting foreign companies from taxes on their earnings in the country — but there’s a catch. (NYT)• Democrats in high-tax states are seeking ways to blunt some of the impact of the tax overhaul. (NYT)• The gig economy could get a boost. (NYT)• Betting on the dollar continuing to strengthen in 2018, thanks to the tax law. (WSJ)The Murdoch family tensions behind the Disney deal.It may have been a brief sales negotiation with Verizon that prompted Rupert Murdoch to consider selling pieces of 21st Century Fox. But the NYT reports that friction between the media mogul and his son James helped push the family toward the Disney transaction.From the article by Brooks Barnes and Sydney Ember:• James Murdoch has privately grumbled about the control that his father still exerted at Fox and has chafed at some of the elements of Fox News’s coverage.• Rupert Murdoch was wary of how Hollywood was being reshaped by digital giants like Netflix, Apple and Amazon, and unsure his empire could compete.• Lachlan Murdoch, who is more conservative than his brother, has become the heir apparent at what would remain of Fox, but was initially uneasy about a sell-off.What they gain: Beyond easing family tensions among the trio, the deal could make the Murdochs some of Disney’s biggest shareholders.Yes, Ron Baron has lowered fees on some of his smaller funds. But he’s unapologetic about charging roughly 54 percent more than the industry average.AdvertisementHere’s what he told Landon Thomas Jr. of the NYT:“Since inception, 98 percent of our funds have beaten their benchmark,” he said in an interview. “If you want the lowest fee, you should not invest with us.”How he (and other mutual funds) do it: Chalk it up to a combination of looser oversight, the $10 trillion of investor money still dedicated to actively managed funds and a lack of investor awareness that high fees don’t necessarily pay for performance.Can this go on? One fund investor’s take in the NYT:“I won’t say performance warrants the fees they charge,” said Barry Edelman, a Las Vegas retiree and a 20-year Baron shareholder. “But I appreciate how they differentiate themselves from the competition.”Bruce Steinberg, an executive at the hedge fund, and his family were among the 12 killed when a single-engine plane crashed in Costa Rica on Sunday.Ray Dalio of Bridgewater posted this to Facebook yesterday:Also of note: Richard Cousins, the C.E.O. of Compass Group, the world’s biggest catering company, was one of six killed in a plane crash in Sydney on Sunday.What’s notable is that Time’s Up — formed by more than 300 women and including a legal-defense fund — isn’t focused only on the entertainment industry. It plans to offer help to janitors, nurses, hotel staff and other blue-collar workers.Here’s what Shonda Rhimes, a backer of the initiative, told Cara Buckley of the NYT:“If this group of women can’t fight for a model for other women who don’t have as much power and privilege, then who can?”Who else is involved: The actresses America Ferrera, Eva Longoria and Reese Witherspoon; Donna Langley, the chairwoman of Universal Pictures; and roughly 295 other women in Hollywood.What’s different: The Time’s Up Legal Defense Fund, which is backed by $13 million in donations and is overseen by Tina Tchen, a former chief of staff to Michelle Obama. It will help provide less-privileged women with lawyers to bring misconduct cases to court and protect them from blowback.The misconduct flyaround• Take a peek behind the curtain at the monthly drug- and sex-fueled monthly parties attended by some of Silicon Valley’s most powerful men, in an excerpt from “Brotopia,” the forthcoming book by the Bloomberg anchor Emily Chang. (Vanity Fair)Advertisement• The former Fox News anchor Gretchen Carlson, who was a Miss America, will take over as chairwoman of the pageant as it works through its harassment scandal. (NYT)• Business schools in the United States are hastily reshaping their curriculums with case studies on sexual harassment. (NYT)• Political partisans are starting to exploit the #MeToo movement. (NYT)• The former C.E.O. of SoFi, Mike Cagney, has approached potential investors about backing a fintech start-up. (Recode)• The longtime leader of the New York City Ballet, Peter Martins, has retired after accusations of sexual harassment and verbal and physical abuse. He denies wrongdoing. (NYT)Last week, the NYT reported on how the Metropolitan Transportation Authority ends up with some of the highest construction costs in the world. Some facts:• The Second Avenue subway cost $2.5 billion. Expanding Grand Central Terminal is now expected to cost $12 billion.• Construction companies inflate their projected costs by up to 50 percent for M.T.A. work. Labor unions have arranged for up to four times the necessary staffing on some projects.• Consultants have persuaded officials to spend heavily on design and management.Here’s what Mr. Blankfein, Andrew’s choice as 2017’s best corporate tweeter, had to say:(Mr. Blankfein has good reasons for pique over the tax law: Goldman Sachs is taking  a $5 billion charge in its fourth-quarter earnings tied to the changes.)• Caterpillar faces a potential tax bill of $2 billion from the I.R.S., which says it has underpaid on profits from parts sales through its Swiss unit. (WSJ)Advertisement• The new Salesforce Tower in San Francisco is the tallest office building west of the Mississippi, and a symbol of tech’s triumph in the city. (NYT)• Morgan Stanley is entering the robo-advice market, with an automated service that includes a choice of exchange-traded funds, mutual funds and seven themed portfolios. (FT)• Europe’s new “MiFID II” investment rules — on how research is paid for, how trades are documented and executed, and how brokers share information — come into force tomorrow. (Bloomberg)• Playboy Enterprises is considering shutting the print magazine to concentrate on licensing deals and brand partnerships. (WSJ)• Retail cannabis shops in California opened their doors on Monday, inaugurating what proponents say will become the world’s largest legal market for recreational marijuana. (NYT)• One of America’s biggest rehab companies built an empire. But after a patient died, its enemies — investors and rivals alike — struck hard. (NYT)• Andrew picked his favorite business (and business-adjacent) books of 2017, including “The Spider Network” by David Enrich, “Reset” by Ellen Pao” and “Principles” by Ray Dalio. (NYT)We’d love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan MartinSenator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the longest-serving Senate Republican, announced Tuesday that he would retire at the end of the year, rebuffing personal pleas from President Trump to seek an eighth term and paving the way for Mitt Romney, a critic of Mr. Trump’s, to run for the seat.Mr. Hatch’s decision marks another political setback for Mr. Trump, who lost a Senate seat in Alabama after his preferred candidates were rejected. He also faces an exodus of Republicans from both chambers of Congress and has been warned of a political typhoon in November.Mr. Romney’s potential ascent is particularly alarming to the White House because the former presidential candidate has an extensive political network and could use the Senate seat as a platform to again seek the nomination. Even if he were not to run again for president, a Senator Romney could prove a pivotal swing vote, impervious to the entreaties of a president he has scorned and able to rally other Trump skeptics in the chamber.“When there are things he agrees with him on, he’ll be a big supporter,” Spencer Zwick, Mr. Romney’s longtime fund-raiser, said of Mr. Romney and Mr. Trump. “And when there are things he disagrees with, he’ll voice that.”Mr. Hatch, 83, made his decision public on Tuesday afternoon via a video announcement.“When the president visited Utah last month, he said I was a fighter. I’ve always been a fighter. I was an amateur boxer in my youth, and I’ve brought that fighting spirit with me to Washington,” he said. “But every good fighter knows when to hang up the gloves. And for me, that time is soon approaching.”Mr. Hatch was under heavy pressure from Mr. Trump to seek re-election and block Mr. Romney. Last month, Mr. Trump flew with Mr. Hatch, who has emerged as one of the president’s most avid loyalists in the Senate, on Air Force One to Utah for a day of events that was aimed entirely at lobbying the senator to run again. At the request of the senator, the president announced that he was vastly shrinking two of Utah’s sprawling national monuments, reversing decisions made by Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton.And Mr. Trump used a speech in Salt Lake City to say that he hoped Mr. Hatch would “continue to serve your state and your country in the Senate for a very long time to come.”Then on Dec. 20, at a White House event celebrating passage of the comprehensive tax cut that Mr. Hatch helped write, the president pulled him aside to again ask him to run.The senator lauded Mr. Trump at the event, calling him “one heck of a leader.”“We are going to make this the greatest presidency we have seen, not only in generations, but maybe ever,” Mr. Hatch said.But the presidential intervention failed. Mr. Hatch decided to retire after discussing the matter with his family over the holidays.That clears the way for the political resurrection of Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 Republican presidential nominee who is now a Utah resident and is popular in the Mormon-heavy state, where he ran the 2002 Winter Olympics. Mr. Romney has told associates he would likely run if Mr. Hatch retires.“He’d be a very difficult candidate to beat in Utah,” said Michael O. Leavitt, a former Republican governor of Utah.Mr. Romney repeatedly assailed Mr. Trump during the 2016 campaign, calling him “a fraud,” and Mr. Trump returned the favor, stating that Mr. Romney “choked like a dog” in the 2012 race. The two had something of a rapprochement after the election when Mr. Romney was briefly considered as secretary of state, but after Mr. Trump’s equivocating statements that followed the racist and anti-Semitic violence in Charlottesville, Va., last summer, Mr. Romney regained his critical voice.“Whether he intended to or not, what he communicated caused racists to rejoice, minorities to weep, and the vast heart of America to mourn,” Mr. Romney wrote of Mr. Trump’s statements. “His apologists strain to explain that he didn’t mean what we heard. But what we heard is now the reality.”When it comes to Mr. Trump, Mr. Leavitt said, Mr. Romney has “not been reluctant to speak his mind, and I can’t imagine he would change in the Senate.”In a statement he posted on Facebook on Tuesday, Mr. Romney made no mention of his intentions; he only saluted Mr. Hatch.“As Chairman of the Senate Finance and Judiciary Committees and as the longest-serving Republican Senator in U.S. history, Senator Hatch has represented the interests of Utah with distinction and honor,” he said.By Tuesday evening, Mr. Romney had updated his Twitter profile to change his location to Holladay, Utah, from Massachusetts.Mr. Romney intends to make his intentions known in a matter of weeks, according to an adviser who spoke on the condition of anonymity. His senior campaign team will include Mr. Zwick; Matt Waldrip, who had been running Mr. Romney’s annual policy retreats; and his former chief of staff, Beth Myers.Mr. Zwick did not confirm Mr. Romney would enter the race, but said that “of all the people who can run, Mitt will represent and honor the legacy of Senator Hatch more than anybody.”Mr. Hatch, who briefly ran for president in 2000, amassed a distinguished record over his four decades in Washington and became a fixture in a Senate once noted for its bipartisanship. While considered an institution in his home state, Mr. Hatch was facing harsh poll numbers in Utah, where 75 percent of voters indicated in a survey last fall that they did not want him to run again.Mr. Hatch’s decision comes just weeks after Mr. Trump signed the tax overhaul into law, a measure that the senator helped shepherd as chairman of the Finance Committee. The bill represented something of a capstone to Mr. Hatch’s career, and Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, even deemed it as such last month in what was seen as a subtle effort to usher his colleague to the exit.Mr. Romney was unaware of Mr. Hatch’s decision and of late had been operating under the assumption that the senator would run again, not even bringing up the possibility of a campaign while skiing Monday with friends in Utah.That is in part because Mr. Hatch had privately told Mr. Romney he was not sure he was ready to leave a seat he has held since 1977, and White House officials did all they could to nudge him into another campaign.The president has had Mr. Romney on his mind. Over golf last year, Mr. Trump asked Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, what he thought of the former Republican nominee. (Mr. Graham said he praised Mr. Romney and predicted he would be a solid senator.)As the president prodded Mr. Hatch to stay, voices in his home state were urging him to go. On Christmas Day, The Salt Lake Tribune named the senator “Utahn of the Year,” but not for flattering reasons.“It would be good for Utah if Hatch, having finally caught the Great White Whale of tax reform, were to call it a career. If he doesn’t, the voters should end it for him,” the editorial concluded.In announcing his retirement, Mr. Hatch joined an exodus of Republican heavyweights in what promises to be a difficult election season. Also on Tuesday, Representative Bill Shuster of Pennsylvania, the chairman of the House Transportation Committee, disclosed that he planned to retire at the year’s end. Mr. Shuster, 56, was facing a possible primary election challenge from the right and said his decision would allow him to focus exclusively on trying to steer major infrastructure legislation, a long-sought bipartisan priority, into law.Other retiring House chairmen include Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, of the Judiciary Committee; Jeb Hensarling of Texas, of the Financial Services Committee; and Lamar Smith of Texas of the Committee on Science, Space and Technology.In all, 29 House Republicans have resigned, announced they will retire or run for another office, compared to 16 Democrats. Mr. Hatch joined Senators Bob Corker of Tennessee and Jeff Flake of Arizona, both Republicans, in announcing an end to his Senate career.Mr. Hatch defeated a Democrat 42 years ago this November, arguing that the incumbent had stayed in Washington too long, and became one of the country’s most prominent senators for a generation. While he usually voted a conservative line, he also developed close relationships with his Democratic colleagues, most famously with Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. In the 1990s, the two collaborated on what became a landmark health care plan, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program, and Mr. Hatch even wrote a love song for Mr. Kennedy and his wife, Victoria, called “Souls Along The Way.”“Orrin’s long list of accomplishments means he will depart as one of the most productive members ever to serve in this body,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement.Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Nicholas Fandos from Washington.AdvertisementBy PRIYA KRISHNAJAN. 23, 2018
At C. Ellet’s, a restaurant in Atlanta, an apple strudel arrives at the table. But it doesn’t exactly look like an apple strudel.There are no large chunks of fruit oozing rustically out of a thick band of pastry, no errant raisins or drips of sugary apple juice dotting the plate. The dough is laced with cardamom sugar, oat streusel, apple compote and clarified butter, but from the outside all that’s visible is thin, delicate pastry, rising in a crinkled, cylindrical whirl. When a spoon makes contact, the structure shatters pleasantly, revealing a wayward interior spiral, whose layers encase perfect proportions of fruit to pastry to streusel.The dish is the calling card of C. Ellet’s pastry chef, Jennifer Yee, who makes desserts that are not only visually arresting but purposeful — where every shape and cut serves to build an ideal bite, to create a sense of wonder and surprise.Ms. Yee, who oversees pastry for all the restaurants in the Resurgens Hospitality Group, used to be an architect, and she designs desserts the way she once did building interiors: meticulously sketching every element, testing many prototypes. And these days she has plenty of company: Many of the country’s top pastry chefs have practiced or studied architecture.AdvertisementThey include Ron Paprocki of Gotham Bar and Grill, a New York restaurant that since the 1980s has taken a structural approach to dishes, like its signature soaring chocolate cake; Rachel Gibeley of Rosebud American Kitchen & Bar in Boston, who oversees a celebrated pie program with creative flavors like grapefruit-caramel meringue; and Brandi Henderson, formerly of Delancey in Seattle, who now runs the adjacent cooking school and community kitchen, the Pantry.The best known, though, is Dinara Kasko, a Ukrainian architect-turned-pastry chef who became an internet sensation last year for her sculptural, highly geometric desserts: a cherry cake made to look like shiny red bubbles encased in a cube, and a berry-almond tart with a mazelike surface, constructed with a mold made by a 3D printer.The link between architecture and pastry dates back at least to 1815, when the renowned French chef Marie-Antoine Carême wrote “Le Patissier Royal,” a treatise that codified how architectural principles like drawing and planning could be applied in pastry. Chefs have long played with the structural possibilities of sugar, egg whites, flour and other ingredients.AdvertisementBut today, architectural values and technology are shaping the new norms for dessert. And while the results are carefully plotted and constructed, they are not always towering or eye-popping. In fact, this new school of pastry chefs is trying to rescue the dessert course from the outlandish unicorn cakes and mile-high ice cream sundaes that saturate Instagram.“You have all these photos of desserts covered in rainbows and sparkles, and they might taste like sawdust, but no one knows, because it looks great on social media,” lamented Jansen Chan, a former architect who is now the director of pastry at the International Culinary Center in New York and the Bay Area. “Instagram is a great way for pastry chefs to communicate, but there’s also the danger of people walking away from great pastry just because it’s not totally visually driven.”Why have he and other chefs made such a radical career shift? In interviews, several said they realized while working in architecture that pastry required a similar skill set, and they found baking a cake a lot more interesting — and immediately gratifying — than designing a building.Ms. Yee, 39, always wanted to be a pastry chef, but went to architecture school to placate her parents, who wanted her to have what she calls “a real job.” She landed a position at the San Francisco design firm Georgina Rice & Co., where she assisted in designing interiors, mostly for high-end apartments.Tired of having to abide by mundane building codes and regulations, and wanting something more creative, she began studying pastry in 2002 at Le Cordon Bleu in London, while working as a pastry assistant at the Connaught hotel for the chefs Gordon Ramsay and Angela Hartnett.She found that her architectural training applied in the pastry kitchen as well. “Being an architect is not all about the structure,” she said. “It’s about the intent. How will this improve someone’s life?”“Desserts are also about thoughtfulness,” she added. “What are the ways I can manipulate this apple? What will highlight what’s grown here? It’s about looking at your environment and seeing what will be functional and beautiful in that space.”Consider the éclair, Ms. Yee’s signature dessert when she was the pastry chef at the French restaurant Lafayette in New York from 2013 to 2016.AdvertisementÉclairs are highly technical, she said, vulnerable to everything from the level of protein in the flour to the type of oven you are using. The pastry can easily come out overly dry, or completely lose its oblong shape when baked.But precision, for her, is only one priority. “I wanted some element of spontaneity and approachability,” she said. “When I garnished them, I would make the glaze a little wonky on the side, or cut the fruit on top in a random way.”That attentiveness runs through the sweet creations of Lisa Lu, 49, who oversaw the pastry department at the landmark San Francisco restaurant Boulevard from 2012 to 2017, and is now a production manager at the chocolate company Recchiuti Confections. Two decades ago, as an interior architect, she worked on creative projects like the American Licorice Company corporate headquarters in Bend, Ore., and a mock-up for a shop for the sports apparel brand UltraNectar, in the Bay Area.“Having studied architecture,” she said, “I can put together a plated dessert because I understand composition — the need for balance and a focal point.”The lime tart she used to serve at Boulevard, like Ms. Yee’s apple strudel, looks nothing like what a diner might expect. Ms. Lu balances a marrow-bone-shaped pastry shell filled with a tangy lime curd and pomegranate seeds on a plate, piping toasted meringue all around the tart, “so that if a server wasn’t careful when transporting the dessert, it would still be intact by the time it got to the table.” The meringue acts like mortar, sealing the tart into place and giving the dessert stability.“It’s a perfect example of balance,” Ms. Lu said. “The shell, which is designed to be open enough to be able to pipe in a curd, is the focal point. The meringue is piped in a few key areas, and then the scattered pomegranate seeds draw your eye around the plate and connect the whole dessert together.”To pastry chefs who learned the craft the old-fashioned way and don’t work in the world of high-end restaurants, that kind of talk can sound like an overly cerebral or pretentious way to describe something simple: the joy of creating something sweet.Stella Parks, a senior editor at Serious Eats and the author of the classic American dessert cookbook “BraveTart,” sees some good in the architectural influence on pastry, noting that it has brought more rigor into the practice.“My worry,” she added, “is always that the culinary element is being forgotten. I have had so many meals at high-end restaurants that were extremely memorable, but more like a trip to a modern art museum, where you would never want those kinds of things in your own home.”AdvertisementAgatha Kulaga, a self-taught baker and a founder of the New York City bakery Ovenly, agreed; architectural ideals, she said, often leave out a vital element: nostalgia.“The usefulness of an architecture background really depends on the end goal,” she said. “You can have a dessert made by a pastry chef that feels like looking at a work of art — or you can have a dessert like a cookie or a slice of cake that doesn’t necessarily feel like art, but creates an experience of joy.”But Baruch Ellsworth, the pastry chef at Canlis, in Seattle, who studied architecture at a California community college, said elements like taste and emotion are essential components of the architectural pastry practice. The difference is that they are incorporated more methodically.Both pastry and architecture, he said, are an equation: “A and B always have to equal C. You can tweak A and B lots of times, but it has to add up. You can’t wing it.” In other words, you can be as creative as you want in your choice of flavors of ingredients, but in the end, the dessert has to be something that people will want to eat, “just like when you make a building: you can do anything as long as it won’t fall down.”One of his most popular desserts explores the kaleidoscopic, shape-shifting nature of chocolate. On a single plate, there’s a tobacco-infused chocolate mousse, a Madagascar chocolate brownie, a milk chocolate crisp, a cocoa nib brittle, a caramel cream with caramelized white chocolate, and white chocolate streusel — all covered in a dehydrated layer of chocolate that elegantly drapes over each component like a silk sheet.Mr. Ellsworth compared desserts like that to the Guggenheim Museum in New York. “At first, you’re like, ‘I can’t believe this is a building,’ because the outside looks like a tornado,” he said. “But when you go inside, you realize it is quite functional.”At the International Culinary Center in California and New York, known for turning out acclaimed pastry chefs like Christina Tosi, of Milk Bar, and Melissa Weller, the founder of Sadelle’s bakery in SoHo, architecture plays a significant role in the curriculum, thanks to Mr. Chan, 42, and his architectural background.AdvertisementSince 2015, the second half of the school’s six-month pastry program has incorporated lessons on sketching, making timelines and project planning. Mr. Chan added a chapter called “Elements of Design” to the school’s textbook; it teaches students about architectural principles like dynamism and scale in relation to dessert.Mr. Chan said a number of students have recently come to the school from the architecture world. “They have a much easier time at adapting because they are used to being asked questions. They are better able to express their creative ideas,” he said. “Pastry students with no design backgrounds will be the ones to draw a tall chocolate structure with nothing holding it up.”Mr. Chan has also introduced technology into pastry education — tools like lasers, which can be used to bake and pipe batter at the same time, and water-jet cutters, used by architects to slice through sheet metal and by large-scale patisseries and hotels for cutting cakes into precise, programmed shapes in the half the time it would take a person to complete.Not everyone endorses this approach, though. “Architecture and pastry are both very human schools of thought,” said Ms. Yee, who makes the un-strudel-like strudel. “You are always thinking about what people will like. This kind of technology, to me, dehumanizes food. You’re taking away the personal aspect of cooking.”Some blame technology for the glorification of social-media oddities like clear pumpkin pie, or ice cream wrapped in a cloud of cotton candy.Mr. Chan recalled encountering a red velvet cake at a bakery in Thailand on a recent trip.“It resembled a red velvet cake,” he said, “but it didn’t have any cocoa. Someone had seen it online but didn’t take the time to look up what, actually, is in a red velvet cake. That’s the problem with social media. You lose context. Architects are the opposite — we’re invested in the process.”Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Better Pastry by Design.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By BROOKS BARNES and SYDNEY EMBERJAN. 1, 2018
LOS ANGELES — In late summer, Verizon Communications came to Rupert Murdoch with a surprise acquisition offer.Verizon — locked in battle with AT&T, which was then finalizing its $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner — wanted to buy pieces of 21st Century Fox, Mr. Murdoch’s television and film conglomerate. Representatives of the two companies secretly met at least once to discuss a merger.Mr. Murdoch, 86, shrugged off the talks as uninspiring, according to an associate, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wanted to maintain his access to the media titan. Verizon declined to comment, but the overture prompted Mr. Murdoch to start to think seriously — for the first time — about selling his Hollywood treasures.Not only would a sale solve a business problem, it could solve a family one.Several months later, Mr. Murdoch agreed to sell much of 21st Century Fox to the Walt Disney Company. The proposed $52.4 billion deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, has the potential to radically reshape the entertainment world, but it also has many wondering what the future holds for Mr. Murdoch and the two sons who seemed to be on the cusp of taking over his vast media holdings.AdvertisementMr. Murdoch had built an empire by divining where media was headed, and the landscape ahead troubled him, according to several people who speak to Mr. Murdoch or to others close to him and who insisted on anonymity. Growth for 21st Century Fox, with its mix of traditional cable networks and movie labels, would be increasingly difficult to deliver as technology giants like Apple and Amazon pushed deeper into the film and television industries, changing the way people get entertainment. Netflix was already becoming big enough to outbid Fox and other old-line entertainment companies for scripts. Facebook was coming after sports rights.21st Century Fox had tried to bulk up to remain competitive. But its attempt to buy Time Warner in 2014 had failed. Its recent bid to become the sole owner of Sky, the British satellite television giant, has been stuck in purgatory. British regulators said in June that a sexual harassment scandal at Fox News had amounted to “significant corporate failures,” but added that Mr. Murdoch and his top lieutenants were “fit and proper” to hold broadcasting licenses in Britain. The British government is also weighing whether owning Sky would give the Murdochs too much control over British media.AdvertisementIn recent years, Mr. Murdoch had molded a succession plan that handed his businesses to both of his sons. In 2015, he named his elder son, Lachlan, executive co-chairman, giving father and son equal standing. And he had installed his younger son, James, as chief executive of 21st Century Fox. The three would govern as one big happy family, they all insisted.But at times, James had grumbled that his role as chief executive was limited, according to three people who know him who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. His father did not relinquish much control and became more involved with the company’s most important asset, Fox News, after the cable channel’s pugnacious leader, Roger Ailes, was forced to resign in 2016 following allegations of sexual harassment. (Mr. Ailes died in May.)Fox News, the company’s financial engine and a hugely influential platform for Republican politics, has been the source of family friction. James, who holds some progressive views, has privately expressed embarrassment about some elements of Fox News, including its sometimes skeptical coverage of climate change, according to the three people who are friendly with him, a stance not shared by his more conservative brother and father.The tension bubbled into public in August when James sent an email to a list of blind-copied recipients that repudiated President Trump for his response to the violence in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Trump counts Rupert Murdoch as a  friend and informal adviser.It was becoming increasingly clear to many analysts, investors and Hollywood agents that the three-pronged leadership structure Mr. Murdoch had put in place was not going to work over the long term.The dynamics of the Murdoch family are continuously shifting, and outsiders are kept at a distance. To Hollywood, the Disney deal looked like a family schism, with Lachlan, 46, solidly back in line to succeed his father as overseer of the family’s remaining businesses and James, 45, without a clear future at Disney. Associates of James, however, say that he encouraged the deal, in part because he had grown weary of the dysfunctional push and pull with his brother and father.AdvertisementThe Murdochs declined to be interviewed for this article.When Rupert told his sons that Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, had called him to propose a takeover, James got on board rather quickly, according to four people briefed on the sale process. Like his father, James saw the merits of the proposed deal. Mr. Iger had expertly acquired Pixar, Marvel and Lucasfilm and used them to make Disney into a movie, theme park and consumer products juggernaut. Adding most of 21st Century Fox’s businesses would transform Disney into a colossus with a real shot at competing against the Silicon Valley giants. And the Murdoch family would be Disney’s biggest noninstitutional shareholder. (Only the mutual fund company Vanguard has more shares.)Disney’s offer also provided Rupert Murdoch with the opportunity to establish the like-minded Lachlan as his clear heir, putting him in a position to eventually take over Fox News, which Disney was not buying, and the family’s other company, the newspaper-focused News Corporation.At first, Lachlan was unenthusiastic about discarding such a large chunk of the family’s holdings, according to the four people with knowledge of the sales process. Disney would take the 20th Century Fox movie and television studio, cable networks like National Geographic and FX, and stakes in two behemoth overseas television-service providers, Sky of Britain and Star of India.Lachlan understood the threat posed by the technology giants, but he saw less need to rush into Disney’s arms. Most of 21st Century Fox’s businesses were doing quite well.“There is a lot of talk about the growing importance of scale in the media industry,” Lachlan said on an earnings conference call with investors in early November. “Let me be very clear. Fox has the required scale.”He had also just gotten his family settled in Los Angeles as part of the 2015 management arrangement. The primary property Disney was leaving behind — Fox News — was based in New York.Although Lachlan has not yet made a decision, Rupert has made it clear that he wants his elder son to run what they are calling New Fox, which will house Fox News and the other businesses left behind by Disney, including the Fox broadcast network and a chain of TV stations.“I hope my son Lachlan will agree to be chief executive,” Rupert said during an interview with Sky News in December.That signals a return to his original succession plan, which went awry in 2005 when Lachlan abruptly left the family business after sparring with Mr. Ailes. He decamped to Australia, where he founded and ran a successful investment company. He returned to his father’s side in 2014.Advertisement“This may be his way of being immortal,” the London-based analyst Claire Enders, who has followed the Murdochs for more than three decades, said of Rupert, “because he clearly sees that Lachlan is the right person and shares his views and will support him for the next 10 years.”What James will do is more of a mystery.People close to him say he may try to strike out on his own. Unlike his brother, James has never worked outside the family businesses, other than the hip-hop record label he founded after dropping out of Harvard. His father bought it, bringing James into the corporate fold.A senior job at Disney is also a possibility, but there were “no guarantees of any sort,” Rupert said in the Sky News interview.“He will be integral to helping us integrate these companies over the next number of months,” Mr. Iger said on a call with investors after the deal was announced. “Over that time, he and I will continue to discuss whether there is a role for him here or not.”Beyond the family dynamics, the deal may allow James to finally vanquish memories of his role in the phone-hacking scandal at family-owned tabloids in Britain. He was never found to have had direct knowledge of the hacking by members of the paper’s staff, but a parliamentary committee accused him of “willful ignorance” after he acknowledged that he had failed to read emails that referred to settlement payments made to hacking victims.Moreover, James is likely to emerge with a stake in Disney worth at least $1 billion.“That’s a good return for putting up with your father for 20 years,” Ms. Enders said.As for Rupert Murdoch, he may now turn his attention to buying local television stations to buttress New Fox and compete with Sinclair Broadcast Group, which agreed in May to buy Tribune Media for $3.9 billion. If the proposed deal with Tribune Media goes through, Sinclair will reach some 70 percent of households in the United States.AdvertisementIt has been suggested that Rupert could look at buying stations in political swing states, where there is a lot of money to be made in political advertising during election years, to say nothing of potential influence.Some have also mused that Mr. Murdoch may try to combine New Fox with News Corporation, the owner of The Wall Street Journal and The New York Post. In his interview with Sky News, he brushed aside the immediate possibility. “There’s logic to it, but we’re not planning it at this stage,” he said.In any case, Mario Gabelli, a longtime media investor whose Gamco holds roughly $350 million in 21st Century Fox shares, predicted that Rupert would relish having a voice at Disney, even if the deal did not come with a board seat.“He now becomes Disney’s largest single shareholder,” Mr. Gabelli said, “with an ax to grind.”Brooks Barnes reported from Los Angeles, and Sydney Ember from New York.A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Disney Deal Fits in a Murdoch Family Fault Line.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byFixesBy Tina RosenbergKatie Fahey is 28 and lives in a small village just outside Grand Rapids, Mich. She works as a program officer for the Michigan Recycling Coalition. In her spare time, she founded and leads a massive volunteer effort that could end partisan gerrymandering in Michigan.If you doubt that a private citizen can make a difference, meet Fahey.Like many others, Fahey anguished over America’s growing polarization. After the 2016 elections, she resolved to do something. “Nobody trusted the system — on the right, on the left, on the middle,” she said. “I was nervous to go to Thanksgiving dinner. I didn’t want another holiday to be ruined by divisiveness.”Then she thought of something her whole family could support. Two days after the election, Fahey posted two sentences on her Facebook page: “I’d like to take on gerrymandering in Michigan. If you’re interested in doing this as well, please let me know.”Dozens joined her, then hundreds, then thousands. The organization they created, Voters Not Politicians, has collected nearly half a million signatures to put a proposal on the November ballot to create an independent commission to determine voting districts in Michigan.Every 10 years, states redraw their electoral districts for Congress and the state legislature. This is what we too often get: the Seventh Congressional District of Pennsylvania, meandering in a crazed H-like pattern through five counties near Philadelphia. (On Monday, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled that the entire state’s congressional map violated the state Constitution and would have to be redrawn by mid-February.)Why such eccentricity? Because the state legislature usually draws the map, and the majority party tries to draw it as favorably as possible. For example, Republicans will concentrate Democratic voters in one district — so that all the others will be safe seats for Republicans.By assuring incumbents of re-election, gerrymandering relieves them of worrying about what their voters think. They need to worry only about primary opposition, usually from more extreme candidates. Letting politicians choose their voters instead of the other way around robs people of their voice.“Whatever your No. 1 issue, it’s not going to be resolved until we fix this,” said Carol Kuniholm, a Pennsylvanian who is a co-founder and chairwoman of Fair Districts PA.Congressional gerrymandering is most extreme in Michigan, Pennsylvania and North Carolina, according to the Princeton Gerrymandering Project. For state legislatures, add Wisconsin to the list.“In a certain sense, redistricting is the spoils of war,” said Samuel Wang, a professor of neuroscience and molecular biology at Princeton, who runs the Princeton project. “It’s legitimate as long as it’s a small advantage. But now we’ve seen such a big distortion of the process.”One reason is the emergence of mapping software that can draw precise lines to maximize any desired outcome. Another is that the Republicans outsmarted the Democrats in the 2010 elections. The Republican Party focused on 18 states in which control of the state legislature was close. Republicans picked up 22 new state legislative chambers just in time for the 2011 redistricting — and were able to draw the districts for 193 seats in the House of Representatives. The Democrats controlled redistricting for 44. Control of the rest was either split between the parties or nonpartisan.That’s why in Virginia’s state government elections two months ago, Democrats didn’t get to control the Legislature even though they won the statewide popular vote by nine points, a landslide. It’s why Michigan Republicans got 16 more seats in their State Legislature than Democrats in 2016, even though the total vote in the state legislative races split down the middle. It’s why North Carolina’s Republican congressional candidates won 10 out of 13 seats with just 53 percent of the total vote. Democrats also gerrymandered in some states where they got the chance, Maryland being the starkest example. They just didn’t have many chances.States will redraw the lines anew in 2021. This time, the Democrats aren’t napping. Former Attorney General Eric Holder leads the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, which seeks independent redistricting commissions but also wants to elect Democrats.Pennsylvania’s judgment is the latest in a series this month. One group of federal judges ruled that North Carolina’s congressional districts had been unconstitutionally gerrymandered for partisan advantage — the first-ever such ruling. A day later, a different panel found the opposite in Pennsylvania, but that was before the new judgment came down Monday from the state Supreme Court. Other state courts are dealing with lawsuits as well, and the United States Supreme Court has heard arguments on gerrymandering cases from Wisconsin and Maryland.Then there are nonpartisan citizen campaigns that have nothing to do with Holder’s group. Michigan’s is the furthest along, but citizens are also organizing for ballot initiatives in Ohio, Missouri, Utah, Colorado and South Dakota. In Pennsylvania and Virginia, grass-roots groups sprang up to persuade legislators to establish independent commissions. Other gerrymandered states are still waiting for their Katie Fahey.Fair Districts PA is an arm of the League of Women Voters of Pennsylvania, the lead plaintiff in the lawsuit that yielded Monday’s ruling. The group will continue to campaign for fairer districts for the state Legislature, which was not covered in the lawsuit, and to insure a fairly drawn Congressional map. The legislative district map continues to pose a tough challenge: The Legislature must pass redistricting reforms in two consecutive sessions, followed by a successful ballot initiative. Nevertheless, reform has been doing pretty well; in the lower house of the Legislature, the bill had accumulated nearly enough co-sponsors to pass, including 30 Republicans.Why Republicans? One reason is we might see a Democratic wave this year; if it lasts until 2020, Democrats may be drawing the maps.Also, voters overwhelmingly reject gerrymandering, especially people who feel ignored — a trait common to many Trump voters. A Harris Poll in 2013 found that 74 percent of Republicans thought that those who stand to benefit from redistricting shouldn’t have a say in how it’s done.“How do we win our country back? How do we get back to feeling heard?” Kuniholm of Fair Districts PA said. “The system is allowing the leadership in both parties to ignore you. A person is not going to solve this for you. It’s fixing the system.”“People instinctively get this,” said Michael Li, senior counsel for democracy programs at the liberal-leaning Brennan Center for Justice at N.Y.U. School of Law. “The real disconnect is between political elites and what people on the ground know is fair.”Rose Reeder’s story is proof. She is 70, a retired teacher. She has long been active in liberal causes, but she lives in rural Clinton County in central Pennsylvania, which voted 65 percent for President Trump.After hearing a speaker on gerrymandering at the library, Reeder called the board of county commissioners and asked to give a presentation at the commissioners’ monthly meeting.She hadn’t known much about the issue, but she read and prepared herself. She bought foam board at the dollar store and made eight posters. “I prepared visuals — just as if I was back in the classroom,” she said.On March 20, the commissioners — two Republicans and a Democrat — listened carefully to Reeder. At the next meeting, they voted unanimously to oppose gerrymandering and endorse an independent commission to draw district lines.That energized her. Clinton County has 29 municipalities. She decided to try to persuade all of them to take a similar position.The meetings were always at night, some of them two hours away, over gravel roads. “The hardest part was finding some of these places,” she said. She went with her husband, Dan, and often with a friend, Joan Heller, who ended up doing seven presentations herself. “I’d go in, and they were looking tired and thinking ‘I hope she hurries up,’ ” she said. “As I presented, I could see them sitting a little straighter, more attentive. I could see that they changed their attitude.”She had to visit three of the municipalities twice to convince them. But on Dec. 7, Reeder and the county commissioners presented 30 resolutions on the courthouse steps. All 30 governing bodies in a very red county were asking Pennsylvania’s Legislature to pass a fair redistricting law.In Michigan, Voters Not Politicians held its first meeting on March 4, 2017, in Marquette, in the Upper Peninsula. They expected a few people and instead got 70 — standing room only in the public library. It was the first of 33 town hall meetings in 33 days, to ask people how they would design a fair system. V.N.P.’s volunteers also looked at other states and consulted election law experts. They put together a proposal for a ballot initiative and asked for comments.The Board of State Canvassers approved the proposal on Aug. 17. Then V.N.P. had 180 days to collect 315,654 signatures (10 percent of the number of votes cast in the last governor’s race).As in Pennsylvania, volunteers flooded in. V. N. P had no money; most of its donations come from volunteers themselves, and there still is no physical office or anyone to answer the phone. But Fahey estimates that 4,000 people collected or did data entries for signatures, and 10,000 people were involved in some way.Fahey and her colleagues organized signature collection as if it were a political campaign. They divided Michigan into 14 regions, each with a director and field captains. While the weather was warm, canvassers worked Labor Day parades and state fairs. They collected signatures at the Cheeseburger Festival in Caseville and the Labor Day parade in Detroit. They went to the Michigan-Michigan State football game and the Michigan-Ohio State game (Ohioans were canvassing for their own effort) and put up signs: “Wolverines and Buckeyes agree, voters should choose their politicians and not the other way around.”As it turned cold, canvassers had to move indoors, but some hardy ones still worked highway rest stops, their pens freezing. They asked businesses to display petitions for customers to sign.Rebecca Lenk, a financial analyst who lives outside Detroit, had volunteered before — but only at her church and PTA.“I was terrified to talk to people,” she said. “My husband said: ‘What do you think they’re going to do? Yell at you?’”“Yes,” she said. “I’ll be crying on the street.”But people were kind and receptive, she said. It helped to wear her “Hi, I’m a volunteer” button. She started carrying a petition with her all the time, just in case. She signed up her morning aerobics group.On Dec. 18, two months before the deadline, V.N.P. gave the secretary of state 425,000 signatures, from all 83 Michigan counties. The state must certify the petition, and there is likely to be a lawsuit by Republicans — which will be heard by Michigan’s Supreme Court, which has a 5-2 Republican majority.If the petition survives, the next step is to get it passed in November. The group must intensify its field operation and start buying advertising, which will take money. The opposition will certainly be well organized and funded.There’s still time before the 2020 election for other states to catch up. “We’re in conversation about putting together a Fair Districts US coalition,” Kuniholm said. “Some things people learned could be helpful to others.”In an ordinary year, Li of the Brennan Center said, “if you had said what Michigan did was possible with no paid canvassers, everyone would have laughed you out the door.” It hasn’t been an ordinary year, he said. “It’s time to re-examine a lot of conventional assumptions about what is and isn’t possible.”Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book "The Haunted Land: Facing Europe’s Ghosts After Communism." She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of "Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World" and the World War II spy story e-book "D for Deception." She is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.To receive email alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementFamilies have turned the side of a warehouse facing a federal jail in Brooklyn into a message board for their imprisoned relatives.By ANNIE CORREALDEC. 31, 2017
Maria stood outside the Metropolitan Detention Center in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, on a recent evening, looking up. The jail loomed above, a concrete bulwark more than a dozen stories high and lined in narrow windows. Behind one of them was her husband.Maria, who wished to be identified only by her first name because of her husband’s notoriety, had been standing there for hours. She had flown in from Bogotá, Colombia, for the weekend, only to learn she would not be allowed inside.The sun was going down and it was time to go; she had a flight to catch. But first, she went to her rental car and pulled out what looked like a rolled-up poster and some packing tape. “A little message for my husband,” said Maria, 33, in Spanish, walking over to a warehouse across the street from the jail.A section of the wall had been covered in signs. “Happy Father’s Day Chris B.” “Happy Thanksgiving Luchie.” “I Love You Payroll.” “Stay Strong Hubberz. We Got This.” There were signs in Spanish, posters in Hebrew. Some were handwritten and covered in tape to protect them from the elements. Others were printed on durable plastic. They hung amid scraps of tape, deflated balloons and the tattered remnants of even older signs.AdvertisementMaria’s sign said, in pink marker, “Te amo, Gordo.” “I love you, Big Guy.”Around 1,750 inmates — mainly men — are held at the Metropolitan Detention Center, a federal jail on the Brooklyn waterfront. Most of the inmates are awaiting trial or sentencing in federal cases. The jail has housed drug dealers, mobsters, operatives for Al Qaeda and extradited drug traffickers from Colombia, like Maria’s husband.AdvertisementBut inmates’ families are also bound to the jail, where they pay weekly visits and gather to celebrate birthdays and holidays — and, lately, to post signs.The signs are clustered at one end of the low-slung warehouse that faces the detention center, on 29th Street. There is no formal system behind the effort, no Facebook group. Like Maria, who said she had noticed the signs during a previous visit, relatives see them and come back with their own. It’s a gesture of last resort.A spokeswoman for Herman Quay, the jail’s warden, said in an email that the jail was concerned about the posters only if they affected “the security or orderly running” of the detention center, and that the jail “encourages inmates to maintain family ties.” Some jail personnel, who said they were not authorized to give their names, said that inmates were occasionally reprimanded for banging on their windows after spotting a family member posting a sign below.From his cell, Varick Winters, 26, who is in for drug-related offenses and violation of parole, could look out and see families arriving for visiting hours, posting signs and waving, he said through his mother, Leann Winters, who relayed questions by phone. Asked whether the message wall boosted morale, he said, “It makes you want to cooperate.”In most cases, inmates are allowed visitors on one day of the week. These visits can be whittled down to less than an hour, relatives say, because of the time-consuming process of entering the building, or they can be forbidden altogether depending on the inmate’s risk factor or whether the jail is on lockdown.Relatives say the signs are a way to communicate when they can’t visit, to show affection on a special day, and to defy a system that strictly limits personal touches: Mail is inspected, gifts must be ordered through a third-party vendor like Amazon, and in the visiting area, the only items that can be handed over are small bills and food from the vending machines.Another reason relatives post signs is that inmates not only can see them from above, but also can respond.AdvertisementAfter Maria hung her sign, she turned and looked up again. “I’m going to lift my hand, and he’s going to ——” A tiny, white light appeared in a window of an upper floor and began to blink. Miniature flashlights, ostensibly used for reading at night, cost about $8 in the jail commissary. Inmates also turn the lights of their cells off and on to signal to relatives below, and angle mirrors toward the sun.“He’s told me where he is,” said Maria, pointing to the light. “That’s why I know it’s mine.”The Metropolitan Detention Center lies on a waterfront strip of Sunset Park known as Industry City. The area, once thoroughly industrial, has recently begun to transform as outlets, showrooms and start-ups open in redeveloped buildings. But around the jail, the view remains treeless and desolate.No one can say exactly when people began posting signs on the warehouse, but an image captured by Google Earth shows it was completely blank in 2013. A spokesman for Con Edison, which owns the warehouse, said that the signs were periodically removed and that the current batch would soon be taken down. In the meantime, the rain and the wind do much of the work.But new ones always appear.On a recent evening, Jeffrey, 17, and his brother Jason, 8, took the subway from the South Bronx to Sunset Park and walked to the jail. Jeffrey held Jason’s hand as they crossed under the Gowanus Expressway toward the water’s edge.The routine was familiar. The boys went into the jail to get the form they filled out before every visit, then joined visitors sitting in a glass-encased room outside to wait for their number to be called.They were there to see their father, who was detained on narcotics charges by the F.B.I. in the early hours of Jeffrey’s birthday last February. Their mother was also arrested. She was released on a bond but could face deportation to Mexico. Because their mother was not allowed to visit their father, Jeffrey said he brought his three younger siblings to see him on his visiting day every week. They took turns.Last summer, Jeffrey made a sign for his father. “He asked the officer: ‘May I have a chance to peek outside? Because my son put up a poster.’ I put it right there with a picture of my mother and the four of us,” he said, pointing to the warehouse.AdvertisementThe poster said, as Jeffrey recalled, “We hope our father will be reunited again with our mother, his wife and his four children.” It wasn’t up for long; Jeffrey said he was told by a jail employee that the poster could be considered graffiti, so, after about two weeks, he took it down.By Christmas Day, Maria’s sign had been smeared by the rain and snow and new ones had appeared. There was a poster wishing Misha a Merry Christmas and another that said Feliz Navidad. A Santa Claus decoration and some tinsel had been hung.As visiting hours began, a car pulled up, then another and another. Abraham Lebowitz had come from Monroe, N.Y. He had posted the signs in Hebrew earlier in the year, he said, “for a few people inside” from the ultra-Orthodox Jewish Satmar sect. They announced a religious celebration and the opening of a new building. “Just to make a connection,” he said. “They should see what is happening in the outside world.”Not everyone’s visiting day fell on Christmas, but some families had come anyway. In one car was the family that had posted the sign that said “Happy Father’s Day, Chris B.” months before. They had driven from East New York, Brooklyn. “We try to come as often as we can,” said Khaiya Tucker, bundling her 2-year-old daughter Aubrey and holding her up so her grandfather could see her from his cell. She pointed to a blinking light on the third floor. “Look, Bree-Bree, it’s your G-Pops,” she said.An icy wind swept in off the water, and down the street another family huddled beside their idling sport utility vehicle, holding up a bedsheet that said, in permanent marker, “Merry Xmas We Love You Bebo.” They had come from Queens to send a message to Victor, 30, who they said was arrested on drug-related charges about five months ago.“I’m here because I miss him,” said his mother, who gave only her first name, Sonia, holding the sheet as it twisted and flapped in the wind. “I want him to know I love him.”Upstairs, a cell lit up.“His light went on. I saw it!” she said.The family waved and blew kisses as the lights flicked on and off. Victor’s father, Victor Sr., began to weep.Visitors rushed past, hunkered down. The puddles on the street had turned to ice. But Victor’s family stayed outside, stomping against the cold, laughing, looking up. As long as that light was there, it was hard to leave.Finally, they got in the car, and Sonia’s cellphone rang. It was Victor, calling from a shared jail phone. “I just happened to look outside,” he said. “I didn’t expect to see anybody there.”A version of this article appears in print on January 1, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Signs Posted on a Warehouse Wall Tell Inmates They’re Loved.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.How Dana Loesch, a onetime Democrat, became a Second Amendment spokeswoman too incendiary for some right-wingers to handle.By LAURA M. HOLSONJAN. 20, 2018
DALLAS — Dana Loesch has a biblical inscription tattooed on her forearm, a reference to a passage in the Book of Ephesians that calls for Christians to wear holy armor to protect themselves from a dark world. It is an apt precept for Ms. Loesch, a 39-year-old conservative radio talk-show host and political commentator who views the world through a lens of fear and violence.It is why she has an arsenal of firearms strategically placed in safes throughout her home. She keeps a handgun near her bed in the event of an intruder, she said, which she can use until she finds a more powerful shotgun or rifle nearby. She sometimes tucks a gun in the small of her back. Other times, she keeps a knife in her purse.“Evil is real,” she said over a plate of barbecued sausage last month in a suburban restaurant.And if there is a question about what God has to do with any of this, she keeps a sign in the window of the house that she and her family recently vacated. “This home protected by the good lord and a gun,” it read. “If you came here to steal or do harm you might meet them both.”Ms. Loesch has been a voice of the conservative movement for nearly a decade, first at Breitbart News Network, where she analyzed politics and the media, and later for a television show on The Blaze media network. She has written two books, “Hands Off My Gun: Defeating the Plot to Disarm America” (2014) and “Flyover Nation: You Can’t Run a Country You’ve Never Been To” (2016). And she has had her own national radio show since 2008. But it wasn’t until last year that people farther afield took notice, when she was featured in a recruiting ad for the National Rifle Association.Pundits from the left and right said it stoked violence and civic unrest; the neoconservative Bill Kristol called the video “ludicrous.” But Ms. Loesch, who was named the spokeswoman for the National Rifle Association in 2017, delights in a brawl, particularly if it’s public.Advertisement“When she knows she has just upset someone, she will laugh,” said Ben Howe, a close friend and senior contributing editor at RedState.com who worked with her at The Blaze. He added, “She’ll be ready to jump into the fray, swinging her sword, and see who gets killed later.”AdvertisementAnn Coulter found her voice as a Cassandra for the right in the early 2000s. In the Trump era, Ms. Loesch has found hers as a telegenic warrior for the N.R.A. She shares some characteristics with President Trump, said Megyn Kelly, the NBC talk show host who used to have her on as a guest on Fox News when Ms. Kelly had a show there. “She is compelling television,” she said.Even Ms. Kelly, a friend, has noticed that Ms. Loesch has embraced a more barbed tone the past year. “On my show, she was never a bomb thrower,” Ms. Kelly said. “We tried to veer away from that.” But public conversation has grown more cacophonous since Mr. Trump’s election. And unlike Ms. Coulter in her heyday, Ms. Loesch faces an ever-expanding field of conservative pundits willing to do anything to entertain followers on Twitter, in their jostle for the seats at Fox’s table.“I’ve been told I’m a whore for the N.R.A.,” Ms. Loesch said. “I’m a prostitute for the N.R.A. But I believe so strongly in the natural right to bear arms. I feel so passionately about that.”Dismissal only firms her resolve. “I’m feeling like I am doing what I want to do,” she said, “and what I feel fulfilled in doing.”For as long as Ms. Loesch can remember, the world has been a scary place. She was born Dana Eaton in 1978 in Hematite, Mo., a small community about 40 miles south of St. Louis. Her parents divorced when she was in kindergarten and she has not spoken to her father in more than a decade. Her mother worked three jobs after they moved to nearby Festus, Mo., bringing home bags of granola bars after her shift at a local granola factory. Ms. Loesch said she spent school-day afternoons at home alone or with an aunt.“Now, you could say it was like a meth ’hood,” Ms. Loesch said of her old neighborhood. “People were fighting. It was kind of crazy. It wasn’t the most stable of childhoods.”Ms. Loesch mostly found refuge at her grandparents’ home in Annapolis, Mo., a town of about 450 people nestled in the rural Ozarks. Her family voted for Democrats. Her grandfather hunted deer and raccoon. Despite episodes of violence, Ms. Loesch idealized summers in Annapolis in “Flyover Country.” In the book, she recalled her grandfather standing on the porch one night with a shotgun in his hands. Ms. Loesch’s aunt had just arrived; her estranged husband had threatened to kill her.Advertisement“Looking back,” Ms. Loesch said, “I think I always wanted to know that I was safe.”In the late 1990s, Ms. Loesch attended Webster University in suburban St. Louis, studying journalism, but dropped out after she got pregnant. In 2000, she married Chris Loesch, the baby’s father: a musician and son of a preacher who now manages her career. They attend weekly services at the Church of Christ. And on Halloween they give a party that harks back to more pleasant childhood memories. “Halloween was big with her mom,” said Leigh Wambsganns, a friend. Last October Ms. Loesch said she dressed as Wonder Woman.As a new parent in St. Louis, she blogged about motherhood and began her long-running radio program, “The Dana Show.” She became disillusioned with Democratic politics, though, in the wake of President Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky. She helped found the St. Louis Tea Party, organizing protests and speaking at rallies. And, in 2010, she joined Andrew Breitbart at his website, one of several new voices railing against establishment politics and media bias.After Mr. Breitbart died in 2012, Ms. Loesch clashed with Steve Bannon, the former Trump ally who had been named executive chair of Breitbart News. She sued to get out of her contract. In 2014, she moved to Dallas to work for The Blaze.Ms. Loesch’s particular brand of attack proved unpalatable to mainstream audiences. In 2012, CNN, which had hired her as a political commentator, distanced itself from comments she made on her radio show supporting a group of Marines who urinated on dead Taliban soldiers. She claims the reporting of her comments was “disingenuous.” A year later, she was banned from the now defunct “Piers Morgan Live” after getting into a Twitter fight with the host. “I thought we made up,” she said. “But then we started fighting again.”And, in 2016, Ms. Loesch expressed personal ire at Kayleigh McEnany, now the spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee. Ms. McEnany had chided a friend of Ms. Loesch’s for not supporting Mr. Trump, then a Republican candidate, during a CNN segment. “Babycakes, this was more than just going on television and flashing your pearly whites and your flat chest, red dress, over-sprayed bleach blond hair,” Ms. Loesch told radio listeners.This time, it seemed, she had gone too far. Ms. McEnany was undergoing treatment for a genetic predisposition to breast cancer. Both Ms. Loesch and Ms. McEnany declined to discuss the matter.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Loesch’s performance for the N.R.A. has had more polish. Last April, she was featured in a recruiting ad for the organization called “Violence of Lies.” Scenes of street violence and protests flashed onscreen as Ms. Loesch called for citizens to fight media bias and liberal politicians with the “clenched fist of truth.” (The N.R.A. also released an ad in 2017 aimed at The New York Times, claiming media bias.)According to Andrew Arulanandam, the N.R.A.’s managing director of public affairs, the message was “inspired” by the chief executive, Wayne LaPierre Jr., whose association donated $30 million in campaign support to Mr. Trump. According to news reports, the N.R.A. may have a connection to the investigation of Russia’s involvement in the election. “Violence of Lies” has been viewed nearly three million times on YouTube alone.Advertisement“Dana comes across clearly to our members and gun owners,” Mr. Arulanandam said.But even some in those groups found the video unnecessarily, even dangerously, incendiary. An online petition was circulated, demanding Facebook remove it. On Twitter, DeRay Mckesson, a Black Lives Matter activist, called the video “an open call to violence to protect white supremacy.” In response, Ms. Loesch challenged him to come on her show and “tell me to my face I’m a racist.” He didn’t, saying Ms. Loesch seeks to use opponents as a foil.“I don’t believe that she was really talking to me,” he said in an interview. “She was using me to rile up the base.” Last week Ms. Loesch said she had no interest in speaking with Mr. Mckesson.Ms. Loesch’s boss, Mr. LaPierre, has a history of inflammatory rhetoric at the N.R.A., which has five million members. In 1995, he was forced to apologize after President George H. W. Bush canceled his N.R.A. membership in protest. The N.R.A. had sent out a fund-raising letter calling law enforcement “jackbooted government thugs” who threatened to hurt Americans. “That is what they do,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, a Democrat of New York, who has sparred with Ms. Loesch, also on Twitter. “The N.R.A says their members are under attack.”In October, a gunman fired a weapon on concertgoers from his Las Vegas hotel room, killing 58 people and injuring more than 500 in the deadliest mass shooting in the United States. Within days, Ms. Loesch was on “Fox & Friends,” batting away calls for gun control, calling the massacre awful and warning viewers they live in a world where “monsters exist.”Ms. Loesch said she has received death threats for the past two years; they often follow her appearances on television. In December 2016, she said, “my son went and got the mail and we had all these Christmas cards. He opened them up. And there were pictures, with their heads blown off.” Not long after, someone posted her phone number and a photograph of her house on Twitter. She starting getting calls, including a man on the line, breathing heavily.“He said he would drag me out and beat me in the yard,” said Ms. Loesch, who moved last month to a new home in suburban Dallas. “I reached out to our local police.” She alerted the N.R.A. “It worried them too,” she said. “They are not responsible for crazy people. They want to make sure I am safe and that I am O.K. Because I have kids.”Did the experience remind her of her childhood?“Yeah,” she said. “But this time, I’m my grandpa.”Ms. Loesch was greeted like a local celebrity when she arrived at the Crossfire Defense Academy & Range, eight miles from the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, which she’d agreed to visit to shed light on gun ownership, a mystery to many in blue states. Ms. Loesch was met by a clutch of beefy ex-military safety officers outfitted in red shirts and camouflage pants.The range was at the back of a gun shop, soundproof rooms with stalls facing paper targets clipped to a metal bar. A cartoon of a couple brandishing pistols and dressed in black tie had been taped to the door, advertising two-for-one shooting and happy hour drinks at a local taco shop. But tonight was ladies’ night, and a woman dressed in black high heels was there, holding a pistol.AdvertisementMr. Loesch laid out a number of guns the couple had brought from home, including his wife’s Glock 19 (a semiautomatic pistol) and an AR-15 (a semiautomatic rifle). Ms. Loesch had taped a drawing of George Washington to the magazine of her AR-15 with the words, “We The People.” The body of the gun said “Let It Rain!” She had invited an instructor to join her, and he took her through a number of drills using her pistol. After a few adjustments, she hit the bull’s-eye.She urged this reporter to try her AR-15: “Isn’t it easy?”It was. Like an arcade video game.Ms. Loesch offered thanks for the sojourn. “It means a lot to me,” she said.In a car ride afterward, she wished that there was also time on this trip to visit a church together.“We are all sinners,” she said. “We are all people who have messed up. I fall short every single day.”A picture caption with an earlier version of this article misstated the name of a gun. It is a Black Rain Ordnance AR-15, not a Black Range Ordinance AR-15.A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page ST1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trigger Warning.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Current Events Conversation By                     
THE LEARNING NETWORK

JAN. 4, 2018
Happy New Year, and welcome back — even if for many the first week of school has been disrupted by what some meteorologists classified as a “bomb cyclone.”As always, we were informed, impressed and entertained by student comments on our writing prompts from around the country and the globe, but this week we want to especially acknowledge the students of Danvers High School in Massachusetts and Hanover Horton High School in Michigan for their excellent contributions.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear just as they were originally submitted.Our most popular writing prompt over the last two weeks was “Could You Stop Shopping for an Entire Year?” Many students thought that would be impossible.AdvertisementChristian HHHS from Hanover Horton loves buying — for himself and others — way too much:I couldn’t stop shopping for the rest of the year. The reason why I couldn’t stop is because I love buying new stuff for my family and I. I like to get new clothes quite often because I get sick of wearing the same stuff and I want to mix it up a little but I wouldn’t be able to do that if I stopped shopping. I also like buying new video games for my PlayStation and new equipment for baseball. I couldn’t buy anything for my family for Christmas which wouldn’t feel right because I buy them gifts every year. So no, I couldn’t stop shopping for the rest of the year.Mary Keohan from Duxbury, Mass., says fashion is her form of self-expression:Yes, it is easy to say most teenage girls are “obsessed with clothes!” but clothing has always meant more to than just the excitement of purchasing something new and fun. Clothing ever since I was a little girl has been the best way for me to express myself. If suddenly I couldn’t express in which the form of art I believe is fashion is in my life. I would lose my identity.Fashion is what I want to do for the rest of my life in one way or another I am determined to make a living out how I express myself every single day. Minimising other clutter in my life like cutting back on buying unnecessary items like nail polish. Or another perfume when I already have twenty is something I would be more lenient to give up for a year. It’s actually something I have been trying to do more of in the past six months, and I’ve got to say I enjoy the way I feel mentally after doing so.Polaris Hall from Danvers High School, Mass., would find not being able to buy gifts intolerable:I think that everyone could benefit from something like this. Everyone’s different, but I know that I spend more money than necessary - especially on my friends. I frequently shop for little things to give as gifts when I could honestly just spend more time with the person and show my love that way instead, but when I see something that reminds me of a loved one I want to get it! My brain gets excited and starts cheering “that’s something my friend likes!” and “if I get it for her she’ll know I was thinking of her!” or “that would make him so happy!” While I love getting new things for myself as well, giving up shopping would be immensely hard for me because I want more than anything to surround the people I care about with things that are beautiful and make them happy.But Morgan B., also from Massachusetts, thought not shopping for a year could be a helpful exercise:I believe that “need” is one of the most incorrectly used words in society today. There are many things that we can live without, but our minds trick us into believing that we need them when most of the time we just want it. I believe Ms. Patchett’s chapstick example refers to how society has become blind and lazy to the opportunities that we have. We take advantage of the fact that we can have five chapsticks and if we can’t find it or don’t like the one of many that we have, we can just go out and buy a new one.Sometimes all we need to do is take some extra time and simplify our lives so that we can focus on other more important things happening in our lives. While not shopping for a year would be hard I believe that I would learn a lot about myself and I would be more aware of the world around me.Anthe Dalkouras from Danvers made a connection to a short story that helped her better understand the difference between “needs” and “wants”:This question reminded me of a story that my classmates and I read in English class called “Needs” by Thomas Sowell. Sowell highlights that these “needs” are truly just wants and we could essentially live without them. This connects to Ms. Patchett’s story because it made me realize all of the unnecessary items I have in my room that I believed I was in dire need of when I bought them, like new a shirt or shoes. All of these things are just wants in life that do not help me survive. This seems like an interesting challenge for me to take part in because it would help me uncover all of the things that I have in my house that I have forgotten about and realize that I never needed them.Judy HHHS from Michigan has found other ways to practice self-control:I understand where she is coming from, wanting to no longer take things for granted and save money but I also don’t believe it’s a sin to want things or to buy things that aren’t necessary. I believe it’s possible to find a way to have self control without limiting yourself to never spending money outside of groceries. For me, the most difficult aspect would be not buying trinkets, things that I definitely don’t need but I think are super cool. The only thing I have given up for a certain period of time would have to do with food, I give up most candy, ice cream, and sweets when I’m “in season” during sports. This worked well for me, and I learned that not eating junk food in excess all the time makes it that much better when you do.Edwyn HHHS from School agreed:You earn all that money, most of it goes to things you need anyway. Why not indulge yourself in your wants every once in awhile. This is coming from someone who still has money from his summer job. It isn’t difficult to save up money and use it on what you want to later. Just learn patience. And if you really wanted to give to the poor then save and give to the poor. Having money and doing nothing with it seems like a waste.ZachL. HHHS from Hanover realized that he’s already been taking Ms. Patchett’s advice for years:After reading the article, I completely agree with Ms. Patchett. My parents have taught me the skills to know whats wanted and needed and to use everything you already have instead of just going out and buying more. My parents have taught me to be smart with my money and to not buy things I don’t need, especially if I already have them. I really only go out and buy new things if I need them. I buy toothpaste when its completely gone, I buy gas when I need it and I buy clothes when mine get ripped out or stained. I pretty much have been doing what Mr. Patcheet has done for my whole life._________Our popular prompt “Are You Hopeful About the Future?” brought in a mix of positive and negative answers. Below are a few we especially liked.AdvertisementZachL. from HHHS Hanover said one person can make a difference:To deal with turmoil for me, I do many things. Kindness is one way. Donating or buying gifts for others has always made me a happier person. Global issuing around the world should be resolved in helping. Everyone in the world pitching in. Of course, not forcing anyone to, but just out of pure kindness. Donating money or helping clean up something like the oil spill that happened in 2010. The line that stands out to me most in the article is “we all want to live a happy life.” This stands out to me because it is true, but many people are not doing anything to make other people’s lives better, or even their own.Judy HHHS from Michigan found the article inspirational:I believe everyone can have an impact on the world in a positive way. Even if one kind act makes an impact on the life of another, that impact can be felt by other people for generations to come. The idea of a compassionate kindness and empathy is one that resonates with me in a very personal way. From a young age it has been instilled upon me that having empathy and compassion for others is very important, it is important to attempt to understand others and what they are going through. Being kind is important because you never know what can happen next, and therefore you should live your life treating others as you wish to be treated. I think that these ideas should be applied to global issues. Through dialogue and diplomacy we can save more lives and learn to understand other countries and what they are going through.I greatly enjoyed reading this article. It was inspirational in a lot of ways and I agree with a lot of the ideas presented that agreed with kindness and compassion.Javier from HHHS Michigan has hope, and goals for the future:I am very hopeful for the future. In fact, I am much more hopeful of the future that I am of the present. Even though I do not enjoy school there is something that I need from it, and that thing is a high school diploma. I would like to enlist into the Marine Corps, but to enlist in any branch you require a high school diploma. That is understandable, the military doesn’t have the time to mess around with stupid people. The future however unpredictable can be conquered with just a little bit of planning. With planning it is easy to deal with the future. However, “Man plans, and God laughs.” Even if something goes wrong stick with the plan, just work it through. Make the future yours.Emily Mcgovern from Massachusetts believes our actions are cumulative:Many people are excited to grow up and do these crazy things that you don’t think you can do as a teen. But that isn’t really true, you should strive for your dreams everyday cause you never know what might happen . Something crazy can happen if you put the time and effort you need to be successful . I can wait for the future cause all the things i do that are amazing may all gather up when i am older and can make a huge difference_________We asked students, “How Young Is Too Young to Use Social Media?” and received passionate responses, most grounded in personal experience. Aubrey Ella Hyldahl from Wilmington, N.C., believes that any age was “too young” for social media:In world where social media is integrated so deeply inside our everyday culture, I am not naive enough to think that there is anyway to stop kids from being exposed to it at earlier and earlier ages. I firmly believe that social media gives a warped view of life- one of perfect lighting, makeup, and vacations- that can lead to body image issues and feelings of inferiority. It also contains multiple safety issues such as cyber-bullying and traps and posers.So how young is too young? I think we are all too young. I don’t think anybody can scroll through everybody’s seemingly perfect lives day in and day out and never feel bad about about their own life. And I am sure if there are people like that out there, that they are the ones resisting the trend and living a social media free life. It breaks my heart to think of ten year olds having their childhood cut short because of social media. Let kids be kids. Encourage them to make real-life friends. To be a good person with strong values and confidence. To play outside. To not get caught up in what others think of them. To thrive.Noah HHHS from Michigan thought young children should stay off social media altogether:In my opinion a person should at least be thirteen before getting some sort of social media account. By using social media at a younger age kids may grow up to be less sociable and probably less likely to connect with others. I really only have two friends that I feel I can discuss personal issues with for example. On the other hand this does teach children how to use social media at younger age, and more likely with parent supervision. Based on my experience with Facebook, it by far has a much more negative impact on kids than it can a positive one. I personally would not trust Facebook with a child’s private information, or anyone’s private information. However a child is much more vulnerable because they probably are not well equipped to understand what privacy is at their age.Judy HHHS from Michigan also thought apps like Facebook’s Messenger Kids would only do more harm than good:I think any age under twelve is too young to use social media. When I was younger I spent a lot of time outside, playing with my friends, and just being a kid. I had a lot of experiences that I wouldn’t have had if I had spent all those days inside on a phone or another electronic device. The benefits of introducing technology at a younger age contribute to easily accessible information, being able to research things and use technology to benefit your education. I don’t think it interferes with family life but I think it could interfere in a child’s relationships with their friends, forcing them into more screen time than real contact with real people in the real world.Jessica Pelletier from Massachusetts suggested parents could protect younger users by setting limits:Children should be limited as to how much time they use social media and what sites they are going to. Parents should set limits on both. If parents do this then it can help children connect with others safely. Facebook’s Messenger Kid seems like it is a safe app however that still does not address how much time kids are spending using it. Again, another area where parents have to maintain parental controls on such things like time limits. Facebook is using this app to bring in a younger audience which could get them hooked at a much younger age, and for a lot more years to come. For this reason I believe Facebook is acting in its own best interest.Madison Capezzuto from Danvers, Mass., saw from personal experience how effective these limits could be:Being a typical teenager, I have accounts for many social media websites and tend to be on them for most of the day, effecting the different interactions I have with many different people. I can embarrassingly say that I am a part of this social media epidemic.Scrolling through my Instagram feed, I see kids as young as ten actively using the website unaware of the potential dangers these platforms can cause to someone at that age. The ongoing joke with kids on social media is the simple question, “Where are your parents?” Although this comment is comical, it has a lot of truth behind it. My parents didn’t even allow me to have an Instagram account until I was 13, even after I got it my mom had my password so that she was able to access it. At the time I found it to be a violation of my privacy as I was unaware of all the negatives that come with social media. Now older and in full control of my accounts, I have come to realize that social media with children can be dangerous as there are many people in the world that unfortunately get caught up in the hate.Zach H HHHS from Hanover Horton gave an anecdote to highlight the benefits a social media account could provide children:About a year ago, my sister and her “incredibly creepy online friend” were planning to meet in Florida to attend a event they both desperately wanted to go. My father went with my sister to the event and also to see her “incredibly creepy online friend.” Well, her “incredibly creepy online friend” turned out not to be a “incredibly creepy online friend” and instead became my sister’s best friend who like the same things and around the same age.Social Media is a great platform to use. It can connect people around the world and give a broader sense of our world a new outlook on how we communicate to each other. But, a child needs to communicate outside of a phone screen. More awkward conversations during the holiday seasons are becoming more and more common as grandparents attempt to spark up a conversation only to get a three or four word response. Also, as my sister ended up meeting her new friend, some aren’t as lucky. Their are those “incredibly creepy online friends” we have out in the world and it’s important for the child and the parent to keep in touch of who they talk to online and what they are discussing. I also believe that being thirteen or over should be the recommended time to get a social media account.And Hannah Kelsey from Massachusetts admitted the internet could be a scary place:When I was an elementary age kid, social media did not completely rule our society in the way that it does now. Facebook had just reached worldwide popularity by the time I was already “old enough” to use it, but for children right now that is not the case. My 6 year old cousin is constantly using her ipod touch and is always watching internet videos or playing online games. She even uses Snapchat—of course she has restrictions and only is friends with me and another cousin on Snapchat—but I still wonder: is she too young?On the one hand she is not doing anything wrong or anything inappropriate, but social media can be a very scary place. It is often filled with hate, cyber bullying, racist, sexist, or homophobic posts, and sometimes is even the place of sexual harassment. Are these all things that parents would want their children exposed to? Maybe there is no right or wrong age to start using social media. Maybe the more important thing is that all kids are taught how to be safe online from a very young age. The world is consumed by social media and nearly everyone uses it in some shape or form, children included, so instead of setting up restrictions, kids should learn how to be smart and safe on social media._________Our Student Opinion prompt, “Do You Believe in Online Conspiracy Theories?” resulted in some interesting, and entertaining, student thoughts. Here are our favorites:Payton James from Massachusetts worries conspiracy theories create paranoia:As much as I’d like to deny it, some internet conspiracies have made me question my entire existence.The one that genuinely makes sense to me is the butterfly effect. This theory explains how small things being altered in the past can change how we’re living right now. It poses a “what if” question. What if my dad stayed in Connecticut instead of moving here at a young age? They wouldn’t have ever met or even have known of each other’s existence. Therefore, I wouldn’t be here right now.Myself and many other people likely become invested with conspiracy theories because they give complex things an answer, despite the fact that it may not be completely accurate. It’s human nature to love organization, and conspiracies fill the gaps of confusion with absurd answers, but an answer is an answer. Hearing all of these outrageous theories has made being paranoid impossible almost. There’s nothing I can do about the fact that aliens are coming down from space and messing with us. I cannot change the fact that the entire Kardashian family is possibly involved with the Illuminati. These theories simply make me question things.Meghan Miraglia from Massachusetts acknowledges conspiracy theories offer answers, albeit wrong ones:I don’t believe in any online conspiracy theories, yet, the amount of times I have found myself falling into a Wikipedia rabbit hole, clicking on dozens of little blue hyperlinks, is rather concerning.For a week, my heart was galloping around in my ribcage, following things so ridiculous that they just might be true.We like conspiracy theories because they offer answers - albeit, some outrageous ones. But, they are answers nonetheless. Conspiracy theories are a shot in the dark, a fingers-crossed guess where humanity finds itself pouring over their screens watching Shane Dawson provide another possibility about the thing that eats up their thoughts.But, as for the argument that the internet has stirred up more paranoia, well, that’s just absolutely false. Paranoia and anxiety has gnawed up the human world for ages. Even before the internet, there were worries. The Internet simply provides a place to pour out all of the nausea, fear, and jitters - a place where minds that fly in a million different directions can intertwine with other minds that fly in a million other directions. Conspiracies unite people.Conspiracies have made me more paranoid. They make me wary, untrusting, and frankly, a little nauseous. The Internet hasn’t created those feelings in me, though. The Internet has only highlighted them and brought them out of the shadows.Hee Yun Chung from California is bothered for several reasons:Whenever I scope around the political side of the internet, I always see conspiracy theories that often challenge my faith in humanity. Some examples of online conspiracy theories would be the flat-earthers and the entire InfoWars website. The theories presented by these kinds of people can be dangerous when information can be passed around the world in minutes through the internet. If a large portion of the population were to believe in false theories put forward by incredible people, social order can be put in jeopardy by a single lie. I think people should use the internet with skepticism to whatever they see. If someone sees a story online, they should do research before jumping to conclusions.I think that most people make conspiracy theories in order to make a profit. One example would be Alex Jones’ InfoWars. Alex Jones goes onto his show and rails against the globalists while accusing the government/Illuminati (or someone) by making frogs gay through tap water. However, during his shows, he constantly advertises his own products as the only way to protect yourself from an apocalypse that is not coming.Jiwoo Song from California wonders how conspiracy theorists live with the day-to-day fear:To be fair, I would love to live in a world where lizard people are real, Obama is somehow the Antichrist, the government is controlling our lives with TV, and so on. It sure must be a exciting world.Just kidding. I wonder sometimes how all the conspiracy believers even manage their lives in this much fear. Their world must be so frightening, with all this terror existing outside their homes and all. With the lizard person next to the door, and all these theories reaching such people through various questionable “news” sources, I mean. I highly disapprove of the conspiracy theory that involves the “Sandy Hook” hoax. Some of these conspiracists have been known to make threatening calls to already-grieving parents. I think to that extent, paranoia over conspiracy is very, very pernicious.Amanda Donahue from Massachusetts likes how they force us to wonder and question:I don’t believe in conspiracy theories, but I do believe they are a wonderful thing. Despite the possibility of most, if not all, being untrue, they lead people to wonder. They doubt the common belief.The “Mandela Effect” is a very popular theory that over time small things change due to the effect of black holes. One “effect” from this theory is thought to be shown in the book series “The Berenstain Bears.” While mostly everyone seems to remember pronouncing and reading the name as “Berenstein,” it is believed that the Mandela Effect has caused a change in the name to “Berenstain.” A crazy theory to explain something so small, but I think there’s a deeper reason that so many believe this to be true. People use this theory to stray from the idea that their belief is incorrect. They had believed something was one way, when it was really another way, so instead of admitting their false belief, they are rather using the theory of a “black hole” to explain why their belief is “not wrong.” While they entertain me to read and look into, I have yet to find a conspiracy theory that I believe. Or, maybe I have yet to find something I need to cover with a conspiracy theory._________Nearly every commenter for our Picture Prompt “Women in Movies” disagreed that movies dominated by male actors should be remade with female casts. We have selected some of the most convincing, below.Ava Lanning from Danvers, Mass., said remakes are unnecessary in general:I strongly disagree because directors choose their cast based on how well a role is acted. Right? So why do people think that women need to prove that they can act just as well as guys? I think this is a little unfair. Do some people think that war-based movies that have a strong male cast need to be remade with a female cast? Also, since when do women think that it is “unfair” for movies to have a male-dominated role? Nevermind the fact that most remakes of movies are far worse than the original.This is an example of political correctness gone too far. As being a huge fan of attractive male actors, (which many women are) I think that movie ratings of new versions or remakes would go down. Also, I simply would not watch a movie that has been remade with female actresses’ just to prove a point. What point is being proven? That women can act just as well as men? I think all of this political correctness is turning into a bigger deal than anyone would’ve ever expected.Ted from New York thinks the remakes are simply generated to make money:I think this movie and others like it are cynical cash-grabs and have very little to do with political correctness. Studios are more willing to bet on proven winners (the Ocean’s franchise, Ghostbusters) than to take a risk on something new. I see the “all female cast” trend as a gimmick to justify the remakes. There are plenty of incredible “women-centered” movies out there. Kelly Reichardt’s Certain Women, Paul Verhoeven’s Elle, and Mia Hansen-Løve’s Things to Come are recent examples.Anandeep from Pennsylvania looked to the future of movie-making for more roles for women:I don’t believe that they should remake movies that include a male-dominated cast, but rather focus on the upcoming movies that could cast more roles for women. There are so many movies yet to be made, these movies could try and set aside a good number of roles for women who are interested in playing the parts.Brooke Myers from King of Prussia, Pa., suggested one movie that might benefit from a remake:If I had to choose a movie that I would change is “Pirates of The Caribbean” because even though there are girl roles, it would be cool if a girl could play Captain Jack Sparrow, the lead._________We occasionally use editorial cartoons and invite students to interpret them in our Picture Prompt series. Commenters felt Tax Bill had a lot to say.Rex Hardy from Wilmington, N.C., focused hard on the details:This picture clearly shows Donald Trump giving big tax cuts to wealthier families, but it’s the fine details that exaggerate the message of the cartoon.The people holding Santa Claus Trump have on ragged worn out clothes, but more ragged at the bottom of the totem pole. The man at the bottom is also shaking a lot more than the ones he is carrying. I think these two details show that Trump, despite his inauthentic care for these people, cares least for the poor, homeless man on the bottom. The middle represents the lower class and lastly, the top represents the middle class. The upper class is in a nice house, receiving gifts as usual. The scene also seems to be done undercover, like nobody is supposed to be watching. It’s night time, there is a guard keeping watch, and likewise to what happens on Christmas, Santa isn’t supposed to be seen. Lastly, not regarding the message of the cartoon, it seems ironic that the rich person he is helping has a Spanish-style house.Jared Casey from United States offered even more observations:In this illustration, several things are immediately apparent: the fact that President Trump - being dressed as Santa Claus - is delivering the gift of a tax cut to an affluent looking man while on the backs of the lower classes, which are straining under the weight of the other three men burdening their increasingly tired, beaten shoulders.Other elements in this illustration are more interesting, though, such as the ladder that Trump used to get to the top. After more thoughtful observation, perhaps this ladder is symbolic of the fact that Trump and the Tax Cut circumvented the opinions of the lower classes. Had this ladder not been present in the illustration, the viewer would be left to assume that the climbing of Trump to the upper-class man was a joint-effort between Trump and the lower classes, effectively rewarding a deserving individual. Rather than depict the Tax Cut in this manner, the illustrator instead chose to place a ladder behind the tower of lower classes to show that this was a forced operation that had little room for personal choice among the lower classes, and was instead a direct deal between Trump and the upper class citizen. It is very well possible that this ladder makes the difference between this cartoon being a commentary on the political processes of the United States, or this illustration simply mocking the Tax Cut and it’s seemingly ‘crooked’ motivations.Allison Zafiri from Massachusetts summed up the message:The President of the United States is depicted to be hand delivering the gift to an unphased, well kept white man. In addition, the President is seen to be reaching the achievement of passing along the tax cut with the help of literally standing on the shoulders and piggybacking off of hard worker (as shown in their tattered clothing and business attire). In the cartoon the one person that is the least wealthiest (at the bottom) has to carry all the “weight” and on top is average middle class citizen.Prashamsha Rayamajhi from Danvers, Mass., said the tax gift to the rich comes at the expense of the common man:This image is conveying what we were all thinking in the first place: that the new tax bill benefits the rich at the expense of the poor.The new tax bill is a “gift” to the rich but a burden to the middle class, the working person. It reminds me of the cartoon made before the french revolution of the third estate: how the second and the first estate (clergy + nobles) were being held up on the backs of the third estate (everyone else). This just goes to show how the new tax bill is just a way for the rich to get richer while the middle class continues to shrink. The rich, who is depicted to be inside a warm house with a cigar, is getting a present from what looks like President Trump in a Santa costume, being held up by people in normal clothes out in the cold, as the “suits” (or the establishment) looks on.I agree with the point of view of this cartoon. I think that the new tax bill just goes to show how close America is from crossing democracy into an oligarchy. Poor people, middle class people, the people who cannot afford to be taxed more: they’re the ones that are being asked to increase their taxes, whereas the rich, who can afford taxes, are getting a tax break. It’s a big fat present to them at the expense of the common man. That just makes no sense to me.Ann Nguyen from Massachusetts takes on the president’s “gift-giving” as seen through the eyes of the illustrator:In addition to Trump’s mission, a (first) legislative victory would be the perfect Christmas present for Republican congressmen. While wealthy Americans—like the satisfied man leisurely smoking the cigar in the image—are reveling in these tax cuts, the lower classes are struggling under the President’s weight to support his “gift-giving”. In reality, they will financially suffer from the tax bill, which will result in multiple problems. The most significant aspect of the image is how the scenario takes place in the cold winter setting. The Republican tax bill is the hot issue of this December. Americans will either celebrate the holidays with joy or tremble in fear/anxiety, depending upon the tax bill vote._________Our Student Opinion question, “What Acts of Bravery Have You Witnessed This Year?”, yielded some lovely sentiments.Brooke Myers King of Prussia, Pa., said heroes are everywhere:Anyone can be a hero! As the article points out, people are always doing small acts of heroism and often refuse credit. I have seen so many acts of heroism as simple as letting someone sit next to someone on the bus or help bringing in groceries. These situations might not seem like a big deal but these small acts of kindness can brighten someone’s day. Small acts can stop bigger situations or boost someone’s courage. This reminds me of the story I heard about where a bullied student thought no one cared and cleaned out their locker. On their way they dropped their stuff and someone helped pick up the stuff. It turns out that student was going to commit suicide and that small act stopped them and gave them hope. So yeah anyone can be a hero, even you. Think about this next time you help someone or let someone sit next to you.Kylie Lundy from Wilmington, N.C., quoted a former first lady:I define a hero as someone who can put others before themselves (ie. parents), who can look fear in the eye and overcome it (i.e. women taking a stand against powerful men), and especially those who choose to endure and continue to show optimism when others told them it was unlikely or even impossible (i.e. children facing life-threatening diseases). Ultimately, you aren’t born a hero or just become a hero. It’s your choice. You can turn away in the face of danger or stand resilient with others and possibly stand for others who can’t do it for themselves. They come in all different forms, but they are all heroes in my eyes.“You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face.” - Eleanor RooseveltRoberto from SP called out one specific hero:Teacher Heley de Abreu Silva Batista saved many children when a crazy person set fire in a kindergarten in Brazil killing dozen children, the teacher and himself. She bravely fought against the crazy guy and saved most of the children even burning in 90% of her body.Anandeep from Pennsylvania supplied a definition of heroism:“Courage is not having the strength to go on. It is going on when you don’t have the strength.” (T.R) I don’t think that there is a certain trait that makes someone courageous, it’s something you just naturally chose to do. One of the heroic people out there are those who put their lives on the line to protect others. They all selflessly face danger and protect those who are afraid to do so. A hero is someone who exemplifies this trait of courage and who fits better under that definition than soldiers.Soldiers endure the sacrifice and hardships of their lifestyle to make sure others can live their lives freely without any constraints. This idea of fighting for something greater than themselves makes them one of the most courageous people out there.Juan Gonzalez from New Mexico wrote about his own bravery:I am a hero too. When my family had a house fire i woke up and called the department but they were busy. So i single handedly opened the fire hydrant and the water got on my house and controlled the fire until my the department came._________We asked what you thought this artist’s “Rainbow” said about 2017 and we got a range of insightful interpretations — all of them different.Samman Naz from Massachusetts looked at it this way:2017 makes the saying “it’s gonna get worse before it gets any better” come to life. There have been so many negative events happening in this world, it becomes painfully overwhelming. The dominance of the black in the rainbow depicts the countless accusations of sexual harassment, the gun violence, the terrorist attacks, the natural disasters, the climate change, the threats of nuclear war, and the list goes on. The little bit of color left in the rainbow portrays the little bit of peace and humanity that is left in this world. If that black continues to spread over the rainbow, there will be nothing but darkness just like if more terrible events continue to happen in this world, the following years will be nothing but darkness.This doesn’t mean that there are no positive occurrences out there that are trying to keep this crumbling world together because there are, just not enough. There will never be a time where we will live in a pure and moral world of rainbows and unicorns and sunshine. The darkness will always linger around. That’s why we need to make sure that even though we cannot escape the darkness and negativeness completely, we burden them with the colorful events of peace and humanity next year, the year after, and for however long this world may last.But Emily H from South Carolina saw just the opposite:I believe that the darkness is not overtaking the rainbow, but that the light of the rainbow is slowly pushing back the darkness of all of the negative things that have happened this year.Sure, a lot of bad things have happened in 2017, but this picture depicts hope for the future and the resistance of hope and happiness against oppression and wrongdoing. See, behind the rainbow where multicoloured light is trying to break through the clouds. Soon, the clouds will clear away, and there will be hope widespread once again.Finally, the picture shows that where darkness lurks, there is always a rainbow hiding underneath, where even the most optimistic can see only darkness.Judy HHHS from Michigan wishes for kindness:We had a lot of loss this year, a lot of horrors took place all across the world. These things outshone a lot of the good things that happened this year. There is so much hate in the world these days, no one is able to get along and people search for the negativity in everything and everyone. There is little kindness to spare these days, and it’s a shame that we live in the world we do. It makes me sad to see that we are headed towards a life that is filled with unhappiness and darkness. People need to be kinder and express more love and compassion towards others, so that they can reverse the rainbow and make the world a brighter place.Hunter HHHS from Michigan interpreted the illustration as a symbol for something else entirely:I see the rainbow fighting against the blackness, but I don’t see it winning or losing, it is stuck. I also don’t see this as a representation of 2017 but rather the fight for LGBT+ rights. Each year more countries legalize same-sex marriage, however this year America showed the world that these rights are not always guaranteed for its citizens. As of now transgender people are being kicked out of the military, and not all states have gender neutral bathrooms. Not to mention most of Trump’s staff is anti-LGBT+ and so far he seems to be too. But we haven’t lost and hopefully we won’t either because when you take away the rights of one, you have an open door to take rights away from anyone.Harley HHHS from Hanover Horton, Mich., offered another visual representation for the year:I think that this picture is an accurate depiction of how the year of 2017 has gone so far. Nations are on the brink of war, people are dying for worthless causes and the city of Flint is still living without fresh water. The government is back to helping the 1% of people that they accurately represent and global warming is pushing species to the brink of extinction. There were many horrible things that occurred in 2017, with commercial-like breaks of happiness in between.If I could represent this year with a single picture, It would be a black and red plaid shirt. The black representing the bad and the red representing the good. This is an accurate representation to me because I feel that we had good mixed in. People this year were able to pull the good out of the bad and look on the positive side of the issues we’ve faced._________Readers weighed in with opinions on the appropriateness of “Phones in Church” and other places.Shelby Johnson from Massachusetts believes it is up to each person to decide how and when to use their mobile devices:I think that the choice to use a phone during church should be a personal decision. Each person has different opinions upon spirituality and should be able to express themselves however they would like. If going to church and using their phone there gives someone a calming, spiritual experience that they need, who’s to say that’s wrong? If simply being in church is how a person connects to their religion, and being on their phone doesn’t affect this, I think that they should be able to do so and practice their religion however they see fit. However, if the phone becomes a distraction to others, that’s where the line should be drawn.Cassandra DiNardo from Danvers, Mass., turned to the Hebrew Bible to support her opinion:In my opinion, I think all people must challenge themselves to follow the guidance in Ecclesiastes, one of 24 books of the Tanakh or Hebrew Bible, in that “There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under the heavens” 3:1-13. The predicament with this piece of wise words is to decipher where phones do and do not belong.Places of worship for example, requires another level of respect of its members towards not only the church but fellow members as well. Imagine, peaceful prayers in a cathedral/temple or anything of the like being interrupted by the shrill cry of a ringtone going off. I do not think that phones contribute to spiritual experience, but should be a personal growth and the development of a good relationship with God (or others) that a person follows.Anandeep from Pennsylvania urged turning off your phone in church:I think church is a place where you should try your best to separate yourself from all distractions and just focus on your dedication to God. Not only could it distract you, but also others around you. It’s hard to focus when others around you are a distraction, so it’s better to put your phone away and check it later. Most people only really go to church once a week, and it’s not much at all to just ask someone to go without their phone for a couple hours a day at the most. If you’re going to church and constantly just going be on your phone, then what’s really the point behind going?Some commenters, like Makena Liney from King of Prussia, Pa., suggested other places where phones just don’t belong:I don’t think phone should be in church because it is a place you should be fully devoted to God, not your phones. It is also very hard for other to be focused on God when others are on their phones.Another place you should not have your phones are concerts. Concerts are getting more and more unnecessary, especially since we have youtube. Pulling out your phones to take a video or to text distracts other and yourself for what is slowly disappearing. Taking a video could also block the view from others behind you.Finally I think you should not have you phones if you are out to dinner with friends or family. Going on your phone during dinner is a sign of disrespect and it shows that you are not interested in what the other person has to say.Amanda Donahue from Massachusetts thought they should not be allowed in school:One place where cell phones don’t belong is in the classroom. Of course I can be guilty of this a lot of the time, but I am only doing damage to myself. Each time you glance down at your phone, you are missing out on education. Maybe not missing out on the big lessons that you will be tested on, but the small things. Maybe a tip on how to study, or a small piece of knowledge not in the curriculum, but those may be the most important to you in the long run.One day you’ll be in college and not know how to study for your final because when you were in the 10th grade you decided to text back your boyfriend rather than listen to the tips your English teacher was giving you. When you are utilizing the privilege of free education, put down the phone and learn.Collin MacRae from Massachusets lamented their use in social situations:Of course there are places like church, work etc. where you are expected to act formally and most people know it is inappropriate to use a phone. However, I feel as though there are many more scenarios where people choose to use a phone when it is inacceptable. For instance, when you are expected to be sociable but rather someone sits glued to their phone such as sitting at the dinner table or going on a long car ride.In my personal opinion, I think that a lot of the time people spend on their phones is wasted time because other than checking messages, the news or maybe the occasional glance at social media, there really is nothing else that is very productive or more important than what you could be doing instead of using your phone.Lauren C from Danvers, Mass., pointed out that using phones in certain places can cause us to miss out on important moments in our lives:There are some places where phones aren’t acceptable whatsoever. Going through my day to day routine, I constantly see people looking down, faces glowing, on their phones completely ignoring the world around them. I see it in class, I see it put in public, and I see it in places like funerals and although I’m not a religious person I’m sure people use them at church or temple, or where ever they go to do their religious activities. I find it incredibly rude because they just tune out those who are trying to speak to them.If you were trying to speak at a funeral or a church service about something or someone that you found to be important and people were just ignoring you while they were on phones, how would that make you feel?_________Several students wrote both commentary and the openings of short stories in response to our “Robots” Picture Prompt.AdvertisementEmma P from Danvers, Mass., described a scary world:People are no longer humans; they are programs. We are being wired to follow only a certain set of rules. Our free will is starting to deplete with every law being created in government. Our purpose is to acquire and spit out currency, the more the government restricts the easier it is for them to make big bucks. We see this programming not only in our governments, but also in our schools. Students -like the government- are only focused on getting one thing, grades. They are being programmed to memorize material and spew it back out into a bubbled scantron. We are only learning how to get by rather than what we retain in the long term.Robots are cold, meaning they have no emotion. Politicians are manipulating the people for their money. Students are cheating on tests for good grades. We are no longer humans anymore. We are only scraps of metal with a purpose of fulfilling what our program tells us to fulfill. Fit in, get by, and whatever you do don’t go haywire. Or else we will have to be shut down for good.Hee Yun Chung from California imagined a scene straight from a science fiction movie:Humanity had been taken over by the machines. The machines didn’t wield weapons that took human lives but wore suits and ties that killed human jobs. Every conceivable job has been taken over by a machine or software. People could no longer work and find any decent jobs that paid a decent wage. McDonald’s began to employ automatic machines that made burgers for people, Wall Street was fully run by Stock trading AI, and manufacturing jobs for humans were nonexistent. The government tried many different solutions to solve the economic and unemployment crisis and eventually came to the solution of the Universal Basic Income. Though it was not perfect, UBI kept the economy together for a time.William put on his white collar shirt and headed out.“Want to meet up at Starbucks at noon during the weekday?” asked a roommate.“Sorry, I have to type some new AI software for the company!” exclaimed William.“It will only be a matter of time.” responded the roommate.William shut the door and waited for the bus to arrive. A blue bus rolled in front of him and the doors slid open. “Ticket please,” said an automatic voice. William turns in a ticket and sat down in a free seat next to a random person that fell asleep. The bus stopped after a few stops and William looked up to see his office building. He entered and sat at his desk.William logged into his computer to see a red notification. William was devastated to see the message: You have been terminated from your position.And Jalen Owen from Pennsylvania made a prediction about the future:I believe that this story depicts the loss of humanity in upcoming generations. As humans, we are obsessed with building complex forms of technology to get more money and recognition. I feel as though the more this happens, the more we lose sight on what really matters.The robots that take place in this business meeting has no feelings and feel no emotions. This symbolizes our world now because the actions we make seem to show no sign for love or humanity. For example, we are so circled on technology and advancement, but we do not really find time for parts of our country that need improvements. While we are looking into the iPhone X, or the Note 8, and future forms of technology and ways to make money, there are homeless families, extreme acts of violence and racism that we should take of._________In response to our question “What Were the Best and Worst Things About 2017 for You?” readers told us about the good, the bad and the ugly of their year.From being accepted to college, obtaining a driver’s license, starting a new school, winning sports competitions, seeing the solar eclipse, listening to good music and getting a job, to having to say goodbye to family members and friends and pets, leaving old schools, mourning mass shootings and witnessing natural disasters, readers learned a lot about others and themselves in 2017.In a year of highs and lows Ashleigh HHHS from Michigan  came into her own:Many people would say that this year has been nothing but disaster. Especially with all of the hurricanes that had hit all at once, the earthquakes in Mexico, and currently the wildfires in California.Some of the good things though, was the music. Music is a big thing to me so of course the many albums and songs that came out was the highlight of the year for me personally. I discovered many different artists such as Bad Suns, COIN, and Walk The Moon. even when Ed Sheeran released a new album, finally. I really have expanded my music taste and 2017 was the year for me to do that.Through this year though, I have lost quite a few family members and my family isn’t all that happy with one another. Even in my own house I feel like people are fighting but in the end, we still find our ways back to each other. We had gotten a puppy almost a year ago and even though he is a big responsibility, he is now family and personally one of my favorite pets I’ve had. This year I’ve grown so much as a person by coming out of my shell and making many new friends. I found out that I was accepted to my favorite college which has many of my friends there as well as a lot of new ones.AryannaHHHS from Hanover, Mich., found some silver linings to a year filled with hardship:In my opinion 2017 hasn’t been the best thing for the US. I mean a lot of stuff happened. From the presidency being corrupted to even the weather we had. For example everyone is suddenly accusing everyone who is famous of harassment or rape in someway or another and I get it is a thing to talk about, but it got to a point for me where I’m just sick of hearing about it and don’t believe any of it anymore. Not to mention the net neutrality thing, which is a completely ridiculous way to gain more money. Another thing is the weather, from the two major hurricanes that hit Texas and Florida, to the wildfires that plagued California because of the major drought they were in.Despite all the bad news though, there were some good times. Like the eclipse that happened in August. While I didn’t get to see anything, it was nice to see videos about the eclipse. This year also created some good movies too like Stars Wars or the my little pony movie, don’t judge me. I also got to make some new friends, who are amazing, at my career center class too. Another good thing that did come out of this year is not having to do so many exams because a lot of the class exams are already done or I’m exempt from.Zach H HHHS from Hanover Horton had a good year personally, and remained hopeful about the future of the United States:2017 was a good year for me. For one, Kendrick Lamar’s new album was absolutely great to listen to for the first time. It was a unique taste after his previous album “To Pimp a Butterfly” went massively successful. Listening to J. Cole’s new album “4 Your Eyez Only” was a whole new perspective for me. Songs such as “Ville Mentality” and “Change” introduced me to a whole new world in his eyes to tell me a story.Despite all of the good that happened in this world, there are some tragic, unforgettable events that happened here we’ll never forget. In recent months, two mass shootings have taken news outlets channels and websites into my eyes. The mass shooting in Las Vegas claimed lives of 58 people and injured more than 300 people. Also, the mass shooting at a church in Texas claimed multiple lifes. Millions of hearts across the United States where shattered, but nothing done. I’m hoping that change can be taken place in order to prevent these and future shootings here in the U.S. not just in 2018, but today. 2017 was a better year for me than the past and hopefully much better in 2018.Good or bad, many of you found that 2017 changed you in small or big ways — like Londyn from HHHS who faced several challenges this year:Starting off my senior year I was out for a month and was in a few hospitals due to have a serve case of mono. Yet I got accepted to a few colleges and have the offer and chance to run track at a higher level. My cousin also gave birth to my youngest cousin in August giving my family the greatest blessing. Also Donald J Trump went it to office. Good? Bad? Bad. My school boy’s cross country team won States and made history for my school. Everything that has happened throughout this year that I have came across has helped me have a different view on life, or change me as a person. Each year I will go through bumps in my life but its what I do to get over those problems which make me into the person I am.Molly P from Massachusetts shared a difficult experience:2017 was the year of hardships that helped me grow into the person I am now. To classify the things that happened to me this year into the worst and best things to happen is hard due to the worst things helping me improve myself.One of the worst things to happen to me this year was for my aunt to move into my house. I know that does not seem bad at all, but just wait. My aunt was a bad alcoholic that had nowhere else to go. My mother, my aunt’s youngest sister, took her under her wing and let her stay at our house. We all thought that my aunt, B, would only stay for a couple weeks. Those couple weeks turned into four months. She flipped my family upside down. All B did was yell at my mother, drink my parents’ alcohol, and put everyone else in an awful mood. I hated her for doing this, especially to my poor mother who was the one to give her a roof over her head. This time period of B’s stay pushed me to grow into a miserable person at first, but then instead of letting it affect me negatively, I took it and let it teach me the lessons of independence and further my positivity. It pushed me to be the light inside my house that started to grow dark. My mother became distant because of the way B made her feel. I grew more independent than I ever had been before. After four, hard months, B went to rehab. My family is back to normal, but I still am left with the lessons her stay had taught me. I believe it made me grow into the better person that I am today._________Thank you for contributing!We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE NEW YORK TIMESJAN. 20, 2018
A year after millions of women protested President Trump, marchers gathered across the country and the world.A year after millions of people turned out for the Women’s March and took to the streets en masse to protest President Trump’s inauguration, demonstrators gathered on Saturday in cities across the United States, galvanized by their disdain for Mr. Trump and his administration’s policies.A deluge of revelations about powerful men abusing women, leading to the #MeToo moment, has pushed activists to demand deeper social and political change. Progressive women are eager to build on the movement and translate their enthusiasm into electoral victories in this year’s midterm elections.Here are some highlights:• More than 200,000 protesters attended the march in New York on Saturday, according to Mayor Bill de Blasio. Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles said 600,000 attended the march there, while organizers of the Chicago march said 300,000 attended that event. Thousands also turned out in Washington, Philadelphia, Austin and hundreds of other cities and towns around the country and world.• Several speakers urged women to channel their energy into helping Democrats win races in the upcoming midterm elections. A rally called “Power to the Polls,” organized by the leaders of last year’s Women’s March in Washington, will be held on Sunday in Las Vegas.Advertisement• President Trump said in a tweet that it was a “perfect day for all Women to March,” while touting “unprecedented economic success and wealth creation” under his watch.Advertisement• Read our analysis of how activists have tried to sustain the energy from last year’s marches — and the challenges they face next.That’s what Vanessa Medina, a 32-year-old nurse, said prompted her to participate this year, even though she didn’t march last January. Ms. Medina, of Clifton, N.J., cited the Time’s Up campaign against sexual harassment and Republicans’ attempts to defund Planned Parenthood as her reasons for protesting.“I want equal pay,” her 11-year-old daughter, Xenaya, chimed in. “And equal rights.”Ann Dee Allen of Wauwatosa, Wis., stood by a vendor table on 60th Street and Broadway, holding a T-shirt and a handful of buttons she had just bought for the demonstration.“I feel differently about it this year,” said Ms. Allen, 61, who works in communications for a health care organization. “Last year, I just felt kind of angry and impassioned. This year, I feel like I’m in it for the long haul.”Women filled Central Park West from 61st Street north as far as the eye could see. A D.J. spun songs. The wind kicked up.Desiree Joy Frias, 24, of the Bronx, and her grandmother, Daisy Vanderhorst, wore red capes and curved white hoods — the telltale outfits of the enslaved child-bearers of “The Handmaid’s Tale,” which was recently adapted for television from Margaret Atwood’s dystopian science fiction novel.“We both watch the show,” said Ms. Frias, a law school graduate who said she belongs to an activist group called the “Handmaid Coalition.” “We’re a group of men and women that believe fiction should not become reality.”
            Gearing up for the #womensmarch! Who else is going #womensmarchnyc #womeninPT https://t.co/iuiAgcHmj6 pic.twitter.com/5BBV9TqiWG In the middle of a park surrounded by gleaming downtown skyscrapers, hundreds of thousands of people assembled. Some hugged strangers. Others were still coloring in their signs.Advertisement“I’m done with men feeling like they have some sort of power over women, and I’m definitely done with having a president who believes that he has the power to take things from them, to take things that are provided — like Planned Parenthood — from women, when they deserve the same sort of health care as anybody else,” said Amanda Kowalski, 28, who works in financial services.Claudia Grubbs, a 42-year-old high school teacher, returned after marching last year, which she said spurred her into donating to organizations that support women in politics.“Over the last year, every day when I read the news or watch the news, I’m horrified at the things that Trump and his administration are doing, and I feel like going to the march will help re-center me, refocus me and not make me feel like I don’t know what is happening to our country,” she said. “I feel like it’ll help me gain a sense of balance and a sense of purpose, and help me pursue things that I want to pursue.”
#BlackPower + #TimesUp + #WomensMarch = 2018 pic.twitter.com/ASwshWaGQI Ashley Bennett, a Democrat from Egg Harbor Township, N.J., unseated a longtime local Republican politician in her first campaign for office last November. She ran for Atlantic County freeholder against John L. Carman after he posted a meme on Facebook during last year’s march asking, “Will the women’s protest be over in time for them to cook dinner?”Ms. Bennett told the crowd at Saturday’s march in New York that she was scared to run at first, and that she asked herself, “Am I the right person? Can I really do this? But then I realized that if you wait until you feel ready, you may never take action.”In Washington, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, took the stage with other legislators who arrived from the Capitol. She praised the women who have already launched campaigns, many for the first time.“They marched, and now they have run for office, and some of them have already won their office,” she said. “We want women to know their power in so many respects — by showing up not only on the day of the march, but in airports, in town halls.”Advertisement“It’s women who are holding our democracy together in these dangerous times,” added Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York. “To change the system, we need to change the players and have women at the table.”On Twitter Saturday afternoon, the president seemed to celebrate the women’s demonstrations, even though the protests across the country had a distinct anti-Trump message.
            Beautiful weather all over our great country, a perfect day for all Women to March. Get out there now to celebrate the historic milestones and unprecedented economic success and wealth creation that has taken place over the last 12 months. Lowest female unemployment in 18 years!        According to Bureau of Labor Statistics data, the unemployment rate for women aged 20 and older has been falling steadily since 2012, years before Mr. Trump took office.On Friday, Mr. Trump addressed the thousands of anti-abortion protesters gathered in Washington for the March for Life.“We are with you all the way,” he said in remarks broadcast to the National Mall. The president, who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” has used his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.The federal government shutdown that took effect early Saturday did not dissuade marchers from taking to the streets.One of the sticking points that led to the shutdown — disagreement over extending legal status to immigrants brought into the country illegally as children — has become a rallying cry for organizers.
            New chant for this weekend’s @womensmarch’s. “Whose shutdown? #TrumpShutDown.” Say it LOUD. Say it CLEAR. #CallAndResponse #PowerToThePolls On the Metro headed to the Smithsonian, participants on their way to the Lincoln Memorial wore the symbolic pink hats that became popular during last year’s march.AdvertisementMichelle Bloom, 52, a Washington teacher, held a sign as her daughter, Jenna, 14, repaired hers with duct tape. She had made it in her mother’s classroom Friday, tracing the handprints of her classmates who couldn’t make it to the march.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It’s inspiring to see young and old coming together like this,” Michelle Bloom said. But, she added, “I thought there would be more.”Women lined the frozen reflecting pool and slowly filled the grassy areas, but there was still space for kickball games around the Washington Monument. And people jogged and biked around the Mall, which would have been impossible a year ago, when the crowd of marchers was bigger.The organizers of last year’s march in Washington focused their energy this year on putting together an event Sunday in Las Vegas. The event, Power to the Polls, will serve as an opening rally for a national voter registration campaign.While the crowds in Washington were not quite as large as they were in 2017, the Mall was still teeming with people.
            Mall is packed today for #WomensMarchDC pic.twitter.com/4WuHkzf0g2 Garrett Regunberg, 32, pointed to the rallies against President Trump’s travel ban as an example of ongoing activism that has made a difference.“There was a lot done in the first year to limit the damage that could have been done,” he said. “The resistance is alive.”Marchers packed into downtown Chicago to listen to speakers like billionaire Democratic donor Tom Steyer, who has urged Democrats to make the ouster of Mr. Trump a central campaign issue this year.With midterm elections approaching, Mr. Steyer said, “We are going to have to be organized, we are going to have to be engaged and we are going to have to go to the polls and flip those seats.”Marchers shouted anti-Trump chants and carried signs saying, “Vote” and “Immigrants Make America Great.”Advertisement“I’m an activist and an artist and I’m here to fight for women’s equality and equality for all minorities,” said Michelle Hartney, 39, of Chicago, who said she attended the Women’s March in Washington last year.Some women avoided the marches on Saturday because they felt they were too focused on electing Democrats, at the expense of other issues. They wanted the movement to be more inclusive of people of color and other marginalized groups.Nadya Agrawal, 26, joined the big rally in Washington last year. “But it just wasn’t what I thought it would be,” she said. “It felt more like a commiseration rather than the start of a lot of work.”Gatherings like these, she added, were no substitute for more focused activism. “I hope that the women who are at this rally are also going to the next Black Lives Matter protest, or marching on behalf of DACA,” she said.Other gatherings across the country faced similar criticism on social media and in public statements. In Cincinnati, Black Lives Matter activists said on their website, the march was not welcoming to minorities and was “a poorly veiled campaign to elect more Democrats to ‘resist Trump.’” In Philadelphia, activists criticized the rally in an open letter after they learned that the police would be on patrol. (Organizers said the security was normal for a large event and marginalized groups were well represented.)Deandra Jefferson, 24, who helped write the letter, said in a phone interview on Saturday that the march “caters mostly toward middle class, straight white women,” and was not an effective way to dismantle oppression.“They should stop organizing these marches until they decide what they’re going to do the other 364 days of the year,” she added.AdvertisementThe shutdown kept the president from traveling as planned to his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida this weekend.Despite his absence, several hundred protesters gathered north of the mansion, on the beach in front of Worth Avenue. Many people waved “Impeach Trump” signs.
            PaLm beach police estimate the crowd is about 300 right now and growing #TrumpInPalmBeach pic.twitter.com/7gVBzfKjzI 
            17 women in handmaid's dresses standing in the middle of the protest crowd pic.twitter.com/rtgDPB7TnU Organizers of the second Women’s March in Ottawa shifted the focus to issues directly affecting Canadian women. Many marchers wore red scarves as a gesture of support for the large number of indigenous women whose murders or disappearances have received relatively little attention from the police.The march, which began at the Parliament buildings, was one of about three dozen across Canada.Among those who addressed the crowd in Ottawa was Catherine McKenna, the environment minister, who has been one of the leading international voices against President Trump’s climate policies.Late last year, Ms. McKenna confronted a reporter from a right-wing Canadian news outlet, Rebel Media, over its repeated references to her as Climate Barbie. Earlier, a Conservative member of Parliament apologized for describing her that way on Twitter.“I realized that when I spoke out in my small case of being called Climate Barbie — when I did it I felt better, but I also saw that so many other people stood up for me and they also felt empowered,” Ms. McKenna said in an interview outside of a concert venue at the end of the march.Although Ms. McKenna credited Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who regularly describes himself as a feminist, for encouraging women to enter politics, she said their numbers still must increase, and not just in Canada.“I really believe that we wouldn’t have had an ambitious Paris climate agreement if we didn’t have strong women negotiators,” she said. “That’s one of the untold stories.”AdvertisementThe actress and director Asia Argento, one of the first women to publicly accuse Harvey Weinstein of sexual assault, has been mostly vilified by Italian commentators. But the several hundred women who congregated in a downtown Rome piazza on Saturday morning gave her a rousing welcome.“I’d like to see how many of you today acknowledge that you have put up with abuse, by raising your hands. And not just sexual. Abuse of power. Because we are women, because we don’t have power,” said Ms. Argento, as numerous hands timidly rose from the crowd.The women chanted slogans in Italian and English in solidarity with a global sisterhood whose vision “is in sharp contrast with the Donalds of the world and other self-proclaimed geniuses,” said one of the keynote speakers, Loretta Bondi, of Rome’s Casa Internazionale delle Donne, or International Women’s Center.Women also gathered in other corners of the world, including Frankfurt, Germany; Kampala, Uganda; and Osaka, Japan, where a small group chanted “Time’s up!” in English and Japanese.Reporting was contributed by Patricia Mazzei, Jacey Fortin and Sean Piccoli in New York; Emily Cochrane in Washington; Ginger Reilly in Chicago; Angela Chen in Los Angeles; Ian Austen in Ottawa; and Elisabetta Povoledo in Rome.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 18, 2018
Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Twenty cities made it to the next round in Amazon’s search for its second headquarters.• Morgan Stanley reported $686 million in fourth-quarter profit, while fixed-income trading revenue fell 46 percent.• What to think of Apple’s big cash repatriation.• How Goldman Sachs stumbled.Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.In fact, 20 cities — out of 238 applicants — have made it into the next round to host Amazon’s second headquarters.From Amazon’s news release:“Thank you to all 238 communities that submitted proposals. Getting from 238 to 20 was very tough – all the proposals showed tremendous enthusiasm and creativity,” said Holly Sullivan, Amazon Public Policy. “Through this process we learned about many new communities across North America that we will consider as locations for future infrastructure investment and job creation.”Notably not on the list: Detroit, which has become a poster child for reviving American industrial cities and which promised a lot to win over Amazon.AdvertisementMore from Nick Wingfield of the NYT:The list of finalists leans toward cities in the Midwest and on the East Coast, and away from the tech-saturated hubs of the West Coast. Many of the finalists have been considered shoo-ins from the moment Amazon announced the search, largely because of the attributes Amazon said it was seeking for its new home — including a metropolitan area with a population more than one million and the ability to attract and keep strong technical talent.Other observations• Three locations — Washington, Montgomery County, Md. and Northern Virginia — are all part of the Washington DC corridor, where Jeff Bezos has been spending more time lately.Advertisement• The smallest city is Newark, N.J., whose estimated 2016 population in 2016 was 281,764.• This:
            Amazon picking its second HQ is like a season of the Bachelor. Predictable, yet you can't stop watching. Would I still maintain my journalistic integrity if I had a favorite candidate?        • Also, this:
            People would lose their minds if Amazon picked Toronto        — Michael J. de la MercedAs it repatriates most of its $252 billion cash hoard from foreign subsidiaries, Apple has become a triumphant example for Republicans of what the new tax law can do.President Trump’s reaction:Perhaps more important than the one-time $38 billion that Apple will pay in tax is what said it would do with the rest of the money: 20,000 jobs and a new domestic campus, among other initiatives.Tim Cook said in a statement:“We have a deep sense of responsibility to give back to our country and the people who help make our success possible.”The big question: How much of an economic effect will this have? The company says more than $350 billion over the next five years, but how much of that goes beyond what it would have spent anyway is unclear. (For starters, its new campus won’t be as ambitious as Amazon’s planned HQ2.)The tax flyaround• Verizon will save nearly $17 billion because of the new tax code’s effect on its deferred tax liabilities. (WSJ)• What corporate America says will come of the tax overhaul: more annual savings, bigger pension contributions and larger stock buybacks. (WSJ)Mick Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, is continuing his efforts to rein in the agency.AdvertisementHis latest tactic: starve it of cash, reports the NYT’s Stacey Cowley.Here’s what he did:• The consumer bureau is funded directly by the Federal Reserve. Each quarter the watchdog requests money for its operations from the central bank.• On Wednesday, Mr. Mulvaney requested $0 for the current quarter.• Mr. Mulvaney said the bureau is sitting on a $177.1 million reserve fund. He plans to use that to cover the bureau’s projected quarterly expenses of $145 million.While the move is largely symbolic, it follows other recent moves by Mr. Mulvaney that spotlight the Trump administration’s desire to shift the consumer bureau’s trajectory.Ignore all the one-time charges related to the new tax law that banks announced this week, the industry, long-term, should be among the biggest winners.But how much of the windfall will end in the pockets of employees and customers?Since the tax overhaul became law last month, banks have rushed to shower employees with bonuses and raises.Yet despite this largess, “the industry stands to retain more than 75 percents of the savings” from the tax law, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence. In fact, the total cost of the wage increases and bonuses “will amount to just 1.75 percent of the banking industry’s noninterest expenses in 2018.”Morgan Stanley reported a profit of $686 million, including a one-time charge on $990 million related to the new tax law.The Numbers• 84 cents. Morgan Stanley’s earnings per share excluding the tax charge. Wall Street expected the firm to report earnings of 77 cents a share.Advertisement• $9.5 billion. The bank’s fourth-quarter revenue, up 5.3 percent from a year ago.• $37.9 billion. Morgan Stanley’s full-year revenue, up 10 percent from 2016. By comparison, the firm’s five rivals reported revenue rose 2 percent and 5 percent, the WSJ pointed out.• $808 million. The firm’s revenue from fixed-income trading, down 45 percent from a year ago. It marked the first time in two years revenue in the division failed to reach $1 billion. Still, the decline was not as severe as Goldman’s. Morgan Stanley’s longtime rival reported a 50 percent drop in fixed-income trading revenue.• $1.92 billion. Morgan Stanley’s fourth-quarter equity trading revenue, off 2 percent from a year ago.• $522 million. The bank’s fourth-quarter advisory revenue, down 6 percent “on lower levels of completed M&A activity.” Goldman reported 9 percent decline in advisory revenue.Shares of Morgan Stanley gained 1.5 percent in early trading and are up 29 percent over the past year.Yes, stock’s are down a bit Thursday, but that doesn’t obscure the fact that major equity indexes are off to their best start in years.Wednesday, shares of the Dow Jones industrial average closed above 26,000, the Standard & Poor’s 500 index finished above 2,800, and the Nasdaq Composite surpassed its inflation-adjusted peak from the dot-com boom.Investors have piled into stocks to start 2018. It took the Dow industrials just eight trading sessions to go from 25,000 to 26,000, the fastest move between millennial markers on record.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.So far this month, the S. & P. 500 has risen about 4.8 percent this month. To put that into context, the last time the index climbed 5 percent in January was 2013 and the last 6 percent gain for the month was in 1997. In both years, equities went on the finish the year up more than 30 percent, according to Instinet’s Frank Cappelleri.AdvertisementSo what could derail the stock market’s rally? A government shutdown? Escalating tensions with North Korea? Right now neither is weighing on stocks very much.In fact, MoneyBeat’s Ben Eisen points out that downward pressure, by one measure, is at its lowest level in 50 years.Most of its businesses did well in the fourth quarter. Then there was fixed-income trading.Though Goldman’s $1.9 billion loss for the fourth quarter was because of a $4.4 billion charge related to the new tax law, the big number was 50 percent. That was how much its so-called FICC (fixed-income, currency and commodities) trading revenue had fallen.Put another way: Goldman’s FICC revenue for the quarter was $1 billion — the amount the division brought in nearly every two weeks at its peak.Critics’ corner• Lex suggests that Goldman now “wants to execute more perfunctory corporate transactions of a kind traditionally handled by Bank of America and its ilk.” (FT)• Aaron Back writes of a dip in Goldman’s share price, “Any near-term weakness could prove to be a buying opportunity.” (Heard on the Street)On David Solomon’s wine collectionYou may already know Goldman’s co-president as a top-flight investment banker with a taste for fine food. (And almost definitely as DJ D-Sol.) But he’s also allegedly the victim of wine theft by his former assistant, Nicolas De-Meyer, who was arrested this week.AdvertisementWorth noting:• Among the stolen wines were seven bottles of Domaine de la Romanée-Conti, a Burgundy known as “liquid velvet,” that had cost him $133,650.• Overall, the value of the stolen bottles was over $1.2 million.• The wine storage area in Mr. Solomon’s Manhattan home can hold 1,000 bottles.What’s next: House Republicans plan to introduce a short-term funding bill today or tomorrow to keep the government operating for a month. But it’s unclear whether Democrats would back it without a deal on immigration, or if House Republicans have the votes to pass it on their own.How close lawmakers are to an immigration compromise: Not very.Here’s Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, quoted in the WSJ about the current state of affairs:“What’s frustrating to me is we all want to get to yes, but there’ve been all these diversions and distractions,” he said. “I wish we were further along.”More on immigration: John Kelly, the White House chief of staff, told Democratic lawmakers that some of Mr. Trump’s immigration policies — including the border wall — were “uninformed,” according to the WaPo. Mr. Kelly also reiterated that the president supported permanent legal protection for the young immigrants known as Dreamers.The Washington flyaround• Steve Bannon will be interviewed by Robert Mueller’s investigators instead of testifying before a grand jury, according to an unidentified person, signaling that he’s cooperating. (NYT)• A White House lawyer had asked Mr. Bannon to assert executive privilege before the House Intelligence Committee. Mr. Bannon slipped up. (Bloomberg, Axios)• Two news stories this week offered more details about a purported relationship between Mr. Trump and a porn star professionally known as Stormy Daniels. (NYT)The Dow Jones industrial average is on a sprint again, closing yesterday above 26,000 for the first time. Naturally, some people are starting to worry.AdvertisementFrom Corrie Driebusch, Michael Wursthorn and Chris Dieterich of the WSJ:“We are reminding clients that when everyone is acting greedy, it’s time to be fearful,” said Jordan Edwards, a financial adviser in Bellevue, Wash. His conversations with investors have shifted recently from discussions about how to protect their nest eggs to worrying about missing out on big returns.Pimco is in the same boat:“The fact that the fear is gone is the main reason why we should be worried,” Joachim Fels, a global economic adviser at Pimco, told Bloomberg TV on Wednesday from Newport Beach, California. “That means most investors are now pretty fully invested and that means they will want to get out if the markets start to correct — exacerbating the downdraft.”This post on what may be next for Alwaleed bin Talal by Jeffrey Towson, a professor at Peking University and a former employee of the prince’s Kingdom Holding, has started to circulate around the financial world. (A reminder: Mr. bin Talal has been caught up in Mohammed bin Salman’s anti-corruption purge.)Among Mr. Towson’s forecasts:• Mr. bin Talal would be prepared to stay imprisoned for a long time.• He would not sign any plea deal that implies serious wrongdoing, like corruption.Harder to predict: What will happen to Kingdom Holding, which owns stakes in Citigroup, Lyft and Twitter.• Mike Moritz of Sequoia Capital told Silicon Valley start-ups to be more like Chinese companies, where longer work hours and a disregard for physical fitness is the norm and where discussions about “life’s inequities” are seen as distractions. (FT)• Facebook said it would reopen and broaden an investigation into whether Russia sought to influence the 2016 Brexit vote. (NYT)• Microsoft said that A.I. would require new laws and regulations. (Bloomberg)• Google has created an A.I. system for creating A.I. applications. (NYT)• Apple should try to reduce customers’ iPhone addiction, Farhad Manjoo argues in his latest column. (NYT)• See which pieces of art the WSJ’s portraits of Warren Buffett, Sheryl Sandberg and more look like, according to Google’s hit Arts & Culture smartphone app. (Pieter Anthony Wakkerdak’s “Portret van Kenau Simonsdochter Hasselaer” and BToy’s “LizTaylor,” for the record.) (WSJ)Earlier this week, the virtual currency dropped below $10,000. Now, it’s above $11,000.It’s been a wild/scary ride in particular for newcomers who were late to the Bitcoin game. This is from a Reddit user who persuaded family members to buy cryptocurrency late last year:I opened my phone and I find a barrage of messages from them accusing me of scamming them and tricking them into crypto because they lost money, I tried to explain to them that this is normal and it will bounce back soon and it’s just a correction and don’t sell but they aren’t listening.The context: Bitcoin’s run has dwarfed the Nasdaq run of the dot-com boom and, potentially, Dutch tulip-mania, according to Bloomberg.AdvertisementMore in virtual currency news: Ledger, a specialist in blockchain security technology, has raised $75 million in a fund-raising round led by Draper Esprit.William Bain Jr., the management consulting mogul who helped turn Mitt Romney into a private equity power, died on Tuesday. He was 80.The native Tennessean went from Vanderbilt’s alumni office to Boston Consulting Group to founding Bain & Company. Several years later, he capitalized on his firm’s relationships and expertise to found Bain Capital, where he installed Mr. Romney as C.E.O.Here’s Mr. Romney on Mr. Bain, via the Boston Globe:“It’s hard for me to imagine my life and career without Bill Bain’s mentoring,” Romney said in a statement. “He hired me, taught me, and gave me the opportunity of a lifetime. His vision and confidence made Bain Capital possible.”We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas B. EdsallMany think the issue of sexual harassment — embodied in the #MeToo movement — will work to the advantage of Democrats in upcoming elections. A mid-December NBC News/Wall Street Journal Survey gave the party a three to one advantage over Republicans on the matter. But it is hardly guaranteed to do so.Views of sexual harassment and of gender issues generally differ sharply by age, sex and partisan allegiance — all of which create substantial unpredictability. The issue has the potential to accelerate the growing discontent among well-educated white women with the Republican Party. But it could also intensify hostility to the liberal agenda among conservatives, particularly white men, many of whom view women’s complaints of discrimination as “an attempt to gain advantage” in the workplace.This complex dynamic is illuminated, for example, in the work of Kei Kawashima-Ginsberg, a psychologist at Tufts, who recently reported a growing divergence on gender issues between male and female voters under the age of 30.In her paper, “How Gender Mattered to Millennials in the 2016 Election and Beyond,” Kawashima-Ginsberg found that in an election in which allegations of harassment and abuse against Donald Trump were central, support for the Democratic nominee dropped by 15 points from 2008 to 2016 among all young men between the ages of 18 to 29 (from 62 to 47 percent) and by 6 points among all women (from 69 to 63 percent). At the same time, turnout among young white men, many of whom supported Trump, shot up significantly.“2016 saw the greatest number of votes cast by young white men in the past 12 years — markedly higher than their female counterparts,” Kawashima-Ginsberg wrote.Emily Ekins, director of polling at the libertarian Cato Institute, also sees pitfalls for Democrats. In an email, she noted that the #MeToo movement and accompanying protests have the potential to make gender issues more important than economics in 2018 and 2020.That development, Ekins argues,could have negative ramifications for the Democrats because identity issues are not a unifying force among their base and remain divisive among the general public as well.Ekins cited a survey she helped conduct for the nonpartisan Democracy Fund Voter Study Group which found that Democratic men are far less likely than Democratic womento say gender equality is a “very important” issue — 66 percent of Democratic women, 47 percent of Democratic men, 35 percent of all Americans.In addition, the survey found that 64 percent of Democratic women strongly disagreed with the statement “When women demand equality these days, they are actually seeking special favors,” compared with 51 percent of Democratic men and 35 percent of all those polled.In a demonstration of the potential political liability of the issues swirling around identity politics and political correctness, a Cato 2017 Free Speech and Tolerance Survey found that a bare majority (51 percent) of Democrats believes that calling out sexism is typically justified and not designed to shut off discussion. In sharp contrast, Ekins wrote,about three-fourths (76 percent) of Republicans and two-thirds (65 percent) of independents believe it’s primarily used as a tool to stifle debate.Notably, 47 percent of Democrats agreed with Republicans and independents that accusations of sexism are used to silence opponents. The partisan divide over sexual harassment is stark. A December 2017 Quinnipiac University national poll asked the question:If a political candidate has been accused of sexual harassment by multiple people, would you still consider voting for them if you agreed with them on the issues, or would you definitely not vote for them?Among all voters, 66 percent said they would “definitely” not vote for the candidate while 24 percent said they would “consider” voting for the candidate. So far so good. Democrats, however, were 84-10 against the candidate and independents were also opposed, 73-19. A plurality of Republicans, 48 percent, said they would consider the candidate, and 34 percent said they would not. Crucially, among Republican men, 56 percent said they would consider voting for the candidate and 29 percent said they would not.In an email, Alex Castellanos, a veteran Republican media consultant and Trump loyalist, put forward his view of why Trump and his supporters are immune to the attacks of the #MeToo movement:Trump displays unalloyed masculine strength. His supporters do not care if he is predatory, insulting, or offensive as long as he is never in doubt, especially if he is kicking the limp Washington establishment around. Trump’s instinct-driven behavior confirms that he is the archetypal alpha-male, the unfiltered reptilian brain, concerned only with sustenance, survival or sex. If anything enters his world, they know he must either eat it, kill it, or mate with it. That’s why they like him. For about half of America, that is terrifying. For the other half, Trump’s strength is the only thing they can count on to protect them from return of the elite bloodsuckers who would devour them.Castellanos continued, heating up his rhetoric:Trump’s supporters don’t expect his unrestrained id to ponder the details of briefing papers before he eats the red meat in front of him. As long as Trump displays strength and grabs the media, the establishment and America’s adversaries by the pussy, he’s the T Rex many of his supporters want.Musa al-Gharbi, a fellow in sociology at Columbia, sees the possibility of backlash from voters — such as those Castellanos describes — who are angered or offended by the #MeToo movement. Al-Gharbi emailed me:If the idea is that Democrats can win over and mobilize people who did not vote for them last cycle by calling Trump a sexist, and Roy Moore a predator — even if many voters agree and are disturbed by Moore and Trump — many of them can also sympathize with Trump in a sense. The same people who are bashing Trump have also disparaged them (Trump supporters) as misogynistic, racist, homophobic, ignorant, etc. — to their minds, unfairly. So they don’t put a lot of stock in those messengers, and indeed, hearing Democrats sling these kinds of labels around will probably just stir up resentment against the left.In an essay in Salon in May 2016 that contended that Trump’s path to victory was much easier than conventional wisdom had it, Al-Gharbi argued that Democrats andprogressives have done a great job framing racial inequality, feminism and LGBTQ rights as part of the same basic struggle. However, this association works both ways. Accusations of misogyny, for instance, are often heard in the context of a fundamentally anti-white, anti-Christian culture war — a zero-sum campaign waged against ordinary hard-working Americans by condescending and politically-correct liberal elites.The issue of sexual harassment is a useful tool to mobilize Democratic voters in liberal states and districts, according to Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stonybrook, but, like Al-Gharbi, Huddy thinks that such tactics should be deployed with caution:Feminism and anti-feminism are essentially baked into the political parties at this point and it is difficult to believe that there are many people left for the parties to capture on the basis of gender-linked issues including sexual harassment.Huddy warned specifically against Democrats adopting “a singular focus on harassment and gender issues” given the 2016 election outcome:Gender issues were front and center in Clinton’s campaign and that had something of a polarizing effect that likely contributed to weaker support for Clinton among white working class men.More important, according to Huddy,Democrats need to figure out how to combine issues linked to gender/feminism, race, and immigration — identity politics — into a more coherent economic framework that reduces the sense that one group wins at another group’s expense.In a recent paper, “Trending Towards Traditionalism? Changes in Youths’ Gender Ideology,” two sociologists, Joanna Pepin, of the University of Maryland, and David Cotter, of Union College, found evidence of a retrenchment on key gender issues among the young.Using polls of high school seniors over the past 40 years — conducted by the Monitoring The Future project at the University of Michigan’s Survey Research Center — Pepin and Cotter documented a shift on two key questions: “It is usually better for everyone involved if the man is the achiever outside the home and the woman takes care of the home and family” and “the husband should make all the important decisions in the family.” The accompanying chart shows the trend line on both of those questions.I asked Pepin and Cotter about the significance of their findings for the #MeToo movement. Cotter emailed back:My own work, which has focused on the stalled gender revolution over the past twenty years, would suggest some mix of optimism and pessimism about this. One of the apparent reasons for the stall is the flagging of the women’s movement after the successes of the 1970s and the defeat of the ERA in the 1980s.On the optimistic side for Democrats, Cotter wrote,this moment/movement definitely looks like it is taking hold — and it’s had real consequences at least at the level of individual harassers and abusers being called out and facing consequences. Many reports suggest a large number of female candidates for office at all levels.On the pessimistic side, Cotter argues,we can already see the beginnings of a backlash against #MeToo. There’s a large reservoir of gender traditionalism and misogyny as shown in the Trending towards Traditionalism paper — and it persists among youths so may be part of our social fabric for some time.R. Marie Griffith, a professor of religion and politics at Washington University in St. Louis and the author of the recently published book, “Moral Combat: How Sex Divided American Christians and Fractured American Politics,” raised another question in an email:It seems to me that women themselves are divided on these issues, at least some of the most conservative religious women. How else to explain the white women who voted for Roy Moore, despite everything, and who still support Trump?Some of the anti-Hillary women may shift to support Kirsten Gillibrand (if she does run), who may seem a much more acceptable sort of female candidate (more feminine, less threatening, perhaps) and has not, to my knowledge, appeared to insult women who stay home and bake cookies,” Griffith wrote, but “some segment of (white, anyway) women will evidently always stand by the macho male candidate, no matter how vile he may be.Putting those qualifications aside, Griffith argues that “it certainly appears that women’s #MeToo fury is a powerful force with no sign of ebbing,” adding, “but my God, anything could happen between now and then, couldn’t it!? Still, my money’s on them for this year and, if I had to bet that far in advance, probably for 2020 too.”Cindy Kam, a political scientist at Vanderbilt, argued in an email that sexual harassment is currently “more of a cultural conflict focusing on how people think women (and men) should be treated and should treat each other,” and has not yet emerged as a full-fledged electoral issue.She notes thatgiven Trump was elected with the support of about half of white female voters [he won them 52-43], there is clearly a sizable proportion of Americans — both male and female — who are willing to look the other way even in the face of video-taped evidence of crude, sexist language.Turning toward upcoming elections, Kam makes the case thatfor these issues to play a truly transformative role in 2018 and 2020, I think they will need to be more directly tied to institutionalized sexism and associated policy solutions for it rather than tied to singling out specific wrongdoers and removing them from positions of power.Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster and an expert on the politics of gender, is more optimistic about a positive payoff for Democrats than either Kam or Griffith. In an email, Lake argued that the issue of sexual harassment will motivate young and unmarried women to vote, that it has already helped restore Democratic loyalty among college-educated women and that it will improve prospects for women running for office.For many women, according to Lake, “there is a continuum from sexual assault to sexual harassment to bad social and dating behavior,” all of which can help motivate female voters.William Galston, a senior fellow at Brookings, also sees benefits flowing to Democrats from the #MeToo movement. In a Jan. 10 paper titled “Data point to a new wave of female political activism that could shift the course of US politics,” Galston writes:This may be the first time in American history that an entire cohort of young women reports greater political engagement than their male peers. If so, this could presage a new wave of female activism that shifts the course of our politics in the 2018 mid-term elections and beyond.In terms of evaluating the political consequences of the #MeToo movement, Charles Franklin, director of the Marquette Law School Poll, emailed me to say that in the December Wall Street Journal/NBC survey, sexual harassment and #MeToo “ranks 6th, behind shootings, natural disasters, Trump, tax bill, and terrorist attacks” in voters’ listing of the most important issue.“That seems well behind the level of media attention the issue has received,” Franklin notes.There are at least two possible developments that could substantially increase the attention paid to the issue of sexual harassment.The first is Kirsten Gillibrand’s potential presidential candidacy. Gillibrand has taken the lead on the matter of sexual misconduct, declaring that “enough is enough” in a Dec. 6 Facebook post:We should not have to be explaining the gradations between sexual assault, harassment and unwelcome groping. And what message do we send to our sons and daughters when we accept gradations of crossing the line? None of it is ok and none of it should be tolerated.The second possible development is a Democratic takeover of the House or the Senate (or both) in the 2018 midterms. With majority control of either branch, Democrats would have the power to keep Republicans on the defensive and to set the issue agenda so as to maximize the benefits and minimize the costs of gender polarization.Poll data highlights the volatility of public opinion on matters of sexual behavior. Antithetical conclusions can be drawn depending on the questions asked. For example, a December 2017 Pew Poll found that a solid majority of adults, 66-28, believe sexual misconduct allegations “reflect widespread problems in society” as opposed to “individual misconduct.” Republicans agreed, 61-34. At the same time, in the same month, an Economist-YouGov survey found that a majority of Republicans, 59-41, believe that “false accusations of sexual assault” are a bigger problem than sexual assaults that go unreported and unpunished.A third poll in December, by PerryUndem, a public policy research firm, asked voters if they were “upset” by Trump’s Access Hollywood remarks. Most people — 61 percent — said they were. However, 65 percent of Republican men said they were not. Lining up on the same side, 54 percent of Republican women said that “many women interpret innocent remarks as sexist.” A far smaller number, 25 percent, of Democratic women agreed.This contrast appears in question after question. Sixty-four percent of Democratic women say that they feel more unsafe after the election, compared with 14 percent of Republican women.In other words, what looks like a favorable climate now for Democrats is in fact highly volatile, particularly when the man in the White House likes to set bonfires.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy NELLIE BOWLESJAN. 13, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Recently the founder of something called Ripple briefly became richer than Mark Zuckerberg. Another day an anonymous donor set up an $86 million Bitcoin-fortune charity called the Pineapple Fund. A Tesla was spotted with a BLOCKHN license plate. There’s a surge in people looking to buy Bitcoin on their credit cards. After the Long Island Iced Tea company announced it would pivot to blockchain, its stock rose 500 percent in a day.In 2017, the cryptocurrency Bitcoin went from $830 to $19,300, and now quivers around $14,000. Ether, its main rival, started the year at less than $10, closing out 2017 at $715. Now it’s over $1,100. The wealth is intoxicating news, feverish because it seems so random. Investors trying to grok the landscape compare it to the dot-com bubble of the late 1990s, when valuations soared and it was hard to separate the Amazons and Googles from the Pets.coms and eToys.The cryptocurrency community is centered around a tightknit group of friends — developers, libertarians, Redditors and cypherpunks — who have known each other for years through meet-ups, an endless circuit of crypto conferences and internet message boards. Over long hours in anonymous group chats, San Francisco bars and Settlers of Catan game nights, they talk about how cryptocurrency will decentralize power and wealth, changing the world order.The goal may be decentralization, but the money is extremely concentrated. Coinbase has more than 13 million accounts that own cryptocurrencies. Data suggests that about 94 percent of the Bitcoin wealth is held by men, and some estimate that 95 percent of the wealth is held by 4 percent of the owners.AdvertisementThere are only a few winners here, and, unless they lose it all, their impact going forward will be outsize.AdvertisementThey also remember who laughed at them and when.James Spediacci and his twin brother, Julian, who bought ether when it was about 30 cents, now run one of the most popular whale clubs: private cryptocurrency trading communities where crypto syndicates are coordinated in group chats. He showed me a screen shot of his Facebook post from 2014 telling everyone to buy ether.“One like,” he said, pointing to his phone. “It got one like.”Whether it’s all built on sand or not, the crypto castle has risen. There’s an actual house called the Crypto Castle, and the king is Jeremy Gardner, 25, a rakish young investor with a hedge fund who has become the de facto tour guide for crypto newcomers.Early one afternoon, he opened a bottle of rosé while he charged half a dozen external batteries so he wouldn’t have to ever plug in his phone in Ibiza, Spain, the next week.“I do I.C.O.s. It’s my thing,” he said. He wore a pink button-front and pink pants. “It’s me, a couple V.C.s and a lot of charlatans.”An initial coin offering is a way to raise money: A company creates its own cryptocurrency and investors buy into the new coin, without actually buying a stake in the company. Mr. Gardner led an I.C.O. for his start-up Augur, creating an “Augur token” that he then sold to raise real world money. These tokens sold fast, and it is one of the forces that kicked off this boom. For a time, the value of Augur, a market-forecasting start-up with few customers, exceeded $1 billion.About eight people live in the Crypto Castle on any given night, and some of Mr. Gardner’s tenants brought out snacks (Cheez-Its and a jar of Nutella). One of the bedrooms has a stripper pole. Mr. Gardner leaned back into the sofa and rested his feet on the table. He recently did an I.C.O. for a start-up after-party. “You can I.C.O. anything,” he said. He runs Distributed, a 180-page magazine about cryptocurrency that comes out about once a year. He is now raising $75 million for his hedge fund, Ausum Ventures (pronounced “awesome”). He said his closest friends are moving to Puerto Rico to get around paying taxes.“They’re going to build a modern-day Atlantis out there,” he said. “But for me, it’s too early in my career to check out.”AdvertisementHe wears a bracelet from his Burning Man camp (Mayan Warrior) and a necklace that is a key on a chain. “I was given this necklace and was told my net worth would go up, and it’s gone up six x since then,” he said.He drew a chart to explain the crypto community: 20 percent for ideology, 60 percent for the tech and 100 percent for the money, he said, drawing a circle around it all.A roommate on the sofa perked up and asked if he’d ever invest in his lucid dreams start-up (the idea is a headpiece that induces them). Mr. Gardner did not seem impressed: “Probably not,” he said. A reality show wants to follow him around, but he’s skeptical that it can add to his life.“I literally have a date with Bella Hadid not having a reality show,” he said.A few weeks after we first met, as the Bitcoin price exploded in December, Mr. Gardner seemed shaken. People had begun making pilgrimages to the Crypto Castle, knocking on the door, hoping Mr. Gardner could help them invest.“Nothing feels real, it doesn’t feel real,” he said. “I’m ready for crypto assets to go down 90 percent. I’ll feel better then, I think. This has been too insane.”Nearby is a building residents call the Crypto Crackhouse.Grant Hummer, who runs the San Francisco Ethereum Meetup, lives there. Long hallways called Bitcoin Boulevard and Ethereum Alley lead to communal bathrooms. Mr. Hummer and his co-founder committed $40 million of their own crypto-made money to their new $100 million hedge fund, Chromatic Capital.“My neurons are fried from all the volatility,” Mr. Hummer said. “I don’t even care at this point. I’m numb to it. I’ll lose a million dollars in a day and I’m like, O.K.”His room is simple: a bed, a futon, a TV on a mostly empty media console, three keyboard cleaning sprays and a half dozen canisters of Lysol wipes. His T-shirt read, ‘The Lizard of Wall Street,’ with a picture of a lizard in a suit, dollar-sign necklaces around its neck. He carries with him a coin that reads, “memento mori,” to remind himself he can die any day. He sees the boom as part of a global apocalypse.Advertisement“The worse regular civilization does and the less you trust, the better crypto does,” Mr. Hummer said. "It’s almost like the ultimate short trade.”Mr. Hummer went out to meet Joe Buttram, 27, for drinks. As a mixed martial arts fighter, Mr. Buttram said he would fight for a couple hundred bucks, sometimes a few thousand, and worked security at a start-up, but his main hobbies were reading 4chan and buying vintage pornography, passions that exposed him to cryptocurrency.He said his holdings are into double-digit millions but wouldn’t give specifics other than to say he’d quit his job and is starting a hedge fund. There’s a common paranoia among the crypto-wealthy that they’ll be targeted and robbed since there’s no bank securing the money, so many are obsessively secretive. Many say even their parents don’t know how much they’ve made. This also allows people to pretend to be wealthier than they are, of course.“It’s unforgiving,” Mr. Buttram said. “You make one mistake and it’s all gone.”They talk about buying Lamborghinis, the single acceptable way to spend money in the Ethereum cryptocurrency community. The currency’s founder frequently appears in fan art as Jesus with a Lamborghini. Mr. Buttram says he’s renting an orange Lambo for the weekend. And he wears a solid gold Bitcoin “B” necklace encrusted with diamonds that he had made. Otherwise, HODL.This is one of the core beliefs in this community: HODL, “hold” typed very fast, as if in a panic. HODL even if you feel FUD — fear, uncertainty and doubt. If you show wealth, it means you don’t really believe in the cryptocurrency revolution, a full remake of the financial system, governments and our world order that will send the price of ether up astronomically.“HODL when everyone has FUD,” Mr. Hummer said quietly, to explain why he still lives in a dorm room. “This will change civilization. This can 100 x or more from here.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He knows this is strange.“When I meet people in the normal world now, I get bored,” Mr. Hummer said. “It’s just a different level of consciousness.”The tone turns somber.“Sometimes I think about what would happen to the future if a bomb went off at one of our meetings,” Mr. Buttram said.Mr. Hummer said, “A bomb would set back civilization for years.”A few days later, Mr. Hummer was working from his co-founder’s apartment.James Fickel, 26, lives in a high-rise with a Russian blue cat called Mr. Bigglesworth. Mr. Fickel is known in the community for “going full YOLO” and investing $400,000 when Ethereum was at 80 cents. Now, with a fortune he says is in the hundreds of millions, his parents have retired and sent his younger sister to live with him.Advertisement“I’m taking over her education,” Mr. Fickel said, sitting on a white leather sofa, Mr. Bigglesworth asleep in his impossibly skinny arms.Today, Mr. Fickel is outlining the endgame for cryptocurrency true believers.“It’s the entire world reorganizing itself,” Mr. Fickel said. “We could get rid of our armies because for the first time you’ll have people saying, ‘I want to vote for a global order.’ It’s the internet waking up — it’s the internet grabbing its pitchfork. That’s the blockchain.”Mr. Hummer is skeptical.“All I know is the price of ether is going to go up,” Mr. Hummer said.At a jazz bar a few days later, I run into Mr. Fickel’s personal trainer, Alan Chen, who is now running in this crypto circle. Mr. Fickel had convinced Mr. Chen to put his savings into Ethereum.“I’m retired, man,” Mr. Chen said. “I’m moving to L.A. next week. I got a penthouse on Marina del Rey.”“Don’t say I’m retired,” he added. “I’m going into business now. I’m going to use blockchain to help personal trainers.”Nearby was Chante Eliaszadeh, 22, a law student at the University of California, Berkeley, who started the Berkeley Law Blockchain group.“Obviously the bubble’s going to burst and everyone’s going to need a lawyer,” she said.At the annual San Francisco Bitcoin Meetup Party, hundreds gathered under the fluorescent lights of a co-working space, and there was a line out the door. The waiting list had to be told not to show up. Many there wore Bitcoin- and Ethereum-themed clothes from Hodlmoon, which sells unisex cryptocurrency sweaters.AdvertisementThose closest to the technology are the most cautious. Pieter Wuille, 33, a Bitcoin core developer, kept his backpack on as he wandered the party. He’s part of the team working to develop the Bitcoin technology.“The technology still needs time to evolve,” Mr. Wuille said. "This infusion of interest is bringing the wrong kind of attention. Some people believe Bitcoin can’t fail or this technology solves many more problems than it does. It can. And it does not.”He said everyone is asking him whether to buy Bitcoin. “I tell them I have no idea,” he said. “I don’t know!”“There’s so many people rushing into the space, if it’s a bit of speculation, I’m O.K. with that,” said the Coinbase C.E.O., Brian Armstrong, whose company has become the de facto portal for casual investors. “But we can’t guarantee the website’s going to be up exactly when you need it. Everyone needs to take a deep breath.”As the holiday party filled up, a cryptocurrency rapper called CoinDaddy — Arya Bahmanyar, 28 — was getting ready to perform.Formerly a commercial real estate agent, Mr. Bahmanyar works full time at CoinDaddy after becoming a self-described crypto-millionaire (“you think I would dress up like this if I wasn’t?”). “Right now all our entertainers come from outside crypto culture — not inside crypto, and we’ve got to change that,” he said.He pointed to his outfit — a long white fake mink coat, gold-heeled shoes — and said, “It’s gold, right? It’s gold. It’s a niche, and I’m going to fill it.”He says he is going to shoot a music video soon for a song called “Lambo Party” and another called “Cryptomom,” about “all these moms are pumping in their children’s savings accounts.”AdvertisementMaria Lomeli, 56, came to the party to find the people she had put a lot of trust in. A housekeeper from Pacifica, Calif., she said she had invested $12,000 in cryptocurrencies over the last few weeks after reading about it in the news.She wore running shoes and a zip-up jacket that said, “Cinemark, the best seats in town.” She worked there cleaning out theaters. Now she cleans houses. Banks, she said, were designed to steal. Taxes left her supporting a government that she felt didn’t support her.“Charges for sending money to my daughter, interest on our loans,” she said. "And then the money we pay in taxes goes to wars and whatever else they want.”She found a Bitcoin event in the city and asked people there how to buy Bitcoin on her phone. She invested $1,000. It went up. So she put in $10,000 more, she said, along with $1,000 in a currency called Litecoin. Both her children have discouraged this.“And maybe I’m going to lose it,” she said. “Maybe I’m going to keep cleaning houses. But something is telling me I can trust this generation. My instinct is telling me this is the future.”She had to leave the party early because parking downtown is expensive, she said. She zipped up her jacket and left on her own.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page ST1 of the New York edition with the headline: Meet Your Masters.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVID SAXJAN. 12, 2018
TORONTO — The interior of Soufi’s, a fast-casual restaurant in downtown Toronto, is tailor-made for Instagram. There are white subway tiles, vintage photographs, a chalkboard menu and a selection of bric-a-brac assembled by an owner, Jala Alsoufi, a recent architecture and psychology graduate. The barista (her younger brother, Alaa) even sports the scruffy beard and Blue Jays cap favored by food-service workers along this hip stretch of Queen Street.But Soufi’s offers hints of something more unusual than just a place to get lunch. They include the sinuous melodies of old Arabic pop songs, the whiff of sumac and za’atar in the air, and the yellow-and-black T-shirts the staff wears, proclaiming, “From Syria, With Love.”Until recently, Syrian cuisine hardly existed in Toronto. With just a few hundred families, the Syrian population was too small to support a restaurant scene. But over the past two years, following the high-profile resettlement of more than 50,000 refugees in Canada, the Toronto area — where over 11,000 of them live — is experiencing the green shoots of a Syrian-food boom.Sam Sifton, the food editor of The New York Times, will lead a food discussion and reception with the reporter David Sax and the Syrian chefs and restaurateurs enlivening Toronto’s food landscape. Join us. Reserve tickets here.The entrepreneurs behind these ventures display the striking diversity of Syria’s refugee population. They are as young as 17 and as old as 70, urban professors as well as illiterate farmers. They identify as Shia, Sunni, Druze, Kurd, Alawite, Christian or just Syrian. Some worked in food businesses back home. Others never cooked in their lives.AdvertisementIn a city whose culinary landscape is proudly defined by its immigrant foods (more than half of all Torontonians are foreign-born), the emergence of Syrian cooking illuminates an immigrant community’s integration into the broader population, and the bridge that food can build to a new life.AdvertisementBut this group’s arrival in Toronto also points to something new. “The Syrians are coming at a time that is very different than other immigrants before them,” said Suresh Doss, a food journalist who focuses on the city’s immigrant shops and restaurants in suburban strip malls.Unlike the Filipinos or Sri Lanken Tamils (including Mr. Doss’s family) who opened food businesses clustered together in immigrant neighborhoods to cater to their countrymen, the Syrians have spread their enterprises across the Toronto area, at a time when the entire city is obsessed with anything edible.They can market their meals on platforms like Instagram to a wider audience, tapping into a “visual obsession with food” that Mr. Doss says rewards the most “novel, spicy and authentic cuisines” that Torontonians can get their hands on.And Canada’s embrace of the Syrian refugees has brought them a sort of celebrity status that can translate into sales and long-term success.“There is such a positive attitude toward new businesses that newcomers have been starting here,” said Jala Alsoufi, 23.In August, Ms. Alsoufi opened Soufi’s, one of about a half-dozen Syrian food businesses to appear around Toronto in recent years, with her parents, Shahnaz and Husam, and her brother Alaa, 26. (A younger brother, Ayham, is still in high school.)Though originally from Damascus, the family lived for two decades in Saudi Arabia, where Husam worked as a civil engineer and Shahnaz as a social worker. Unlike the majority of recent Syrian arrivals, who came as refugees, Jala moved here first in 2012 to study at the University of Toronto, and her family followed three years later. Because Canada did not recognize Husam’s engineering qualifications, and the family quickly learned about the scarcity of Syrian food in Toronto, they decided to open a restaurant.Advertisement“We wanted to highlight Syrian cuisine, which had gotten lost in the shadows of Middle Eastern cuisine,” Jala said, noting how Lebanese and other Arabic restaurants had cloaked their restaurants in a generic “Mediterranean” label, for broader appeal.Soufi’s is defiantly branded as a Syrian restaurant. Shahnaz, speaking in Arabic as her daughter translated, said the family wanted to demonstrate that Syrians were “more than just victims.”“We wanted to consciously be light and airy,” Jala added, “because even though the situation in Syria is very unfortunate, it is important to show Syrian culture, music and art.”The Alsoufi family has purposefully struck a balance between traditional Syrian flavors and contemporary Canadian tastes. Soufi’s employees are exclusively young, Syrian refugees. Some wear head scarves and beards, while others prefer tight jeans and rolled-up sleeves. The meat is halal, but beer is served, and a sticker supporting gay, lesbian and transgender causes is displayed on the front door.The menu is built around two quintessential Syrian street foods: freshly baked manaeesh flatbread topped with a variety of ingredients, from sujuk (spiced ground beef) to crumbled halloumi cheese with braised, lemony spinach; and knafeh, a warm sweet dish of gooey cheese and phyllo strands, scented with rose water and soaked in syrup.Jala refuses to make something as overtly fusion-y as a “manaeesh burrito,” but you can order avocado as a topping, and her vegan knafeh, called “banoffeh,” is made with coconut caramel, bananas and tahini, inspired by her love of banoffee pie, that edible portmanteau of 1970s supermarket staples like sweetened condensed milk and whipped cream.The first Syrian food business to make its mark here was Crown Pastries, a small bakery opened by the brothers Ismail and Rasoul Alsalha in 2015, in a strip mall along a stretch of road in Scarborough (the eastern quarter of the city) that is dominated by Lebanese butchers and shawarma shops.The brothers fled to Canada as refugees in 2009 from Aleppo, citing a dangerous situation they declined to discuss. While Ismail finished high school, Rasoul supported him by working in Lebanese bakeries from dawn until dusk, but the goal was always to open a Syrian bakery.
                A celebration of Canadian cuisine, from its indigenous chefs to its famous butter tarts and Caesars.            “With other Arab bakeries, you cannot taste the butter or nuts, only sugar,” Rasoul said dismissively.AdvertisementCrown Pastries is a recreation of their grandfather’s bakery of the same name, which operated in Aleppo’s old city from 1980 until the start of the civil war in 2011, when it was abandoned. It is where both brothers learned the trade.Crown Pastries’ specialty is dozens of delicate sweets, layered with hand-folded phyllo dough. There are piles of baklava in various shapes and sizes; birds’ nests of swirled noodles; custard-stuffed semolina and sweet cheese dumplings called halawi jibben; and chocolate mafroukeh, dense chocolate brownies covered in a storm of pistachios, almonds and cashews.Authentic Syrian ingredients are hard to find in Canada, especially now, as the war goes on. Every six months, Crown Pastries pays more than $500 for a bottle of blood-red Syrian rose water, smuggled across the war’s front lines into Turkey and on to Toronto, because Ismail believes that no other rose water will do.When he arrived in Toronto, Rasoul imagined it would take him 30 years to open his own business. But the bakery has become so successful that the brothers are already planning to expand.Canada’s warm welcome to Syrian refugees was a hallmark of Justin Trudeau’s election as prime minister in late 2015, and for many, it remains a potent symbol of Toronto’s multicultural identity. (The city’s motto is “Diversity Our Strength.”) Syrian food businesses drew an overwhelming degree of media attention, and a customer base that extended well beyond people with Middle Eastern backgrounds.“It was almost too much media,” said Amir Fattal, 27, who arrived from Aleppo in 2016 and set up a supper club, catering company and part-time street food stall called Beroea Kitchen with his wife, Nour Amammana.The response has been overwhelming. The couple have been invited to cater events at City Hall, the University of Toronto and the local offices of Uber. But while Mr. Fattal feels great pride in sharing the story of Aleppo’s grand culinary tradition, he questions whether some Canadians are fetishizing Syrian refugees.Advertisement“There are other people who are refugees,” he said, “and they need opportunities, too.”No Syrian food businesses has felt the spotlight more acutely than Newcomer Kitchen, a nonprofit group of women who come together each Wednesday to cook a traditional Syrian meal in a small cafe and food business incubator called the Depanneur.Newcomer Kitchen began in March 2016 as a way of giving newly arrived Syrian refugees who were temporarily living in airport hotels a chance to cook a meal. But it has grown into a collective of 60 cooks, who rotate in groups of eight to make 50 three-course takeout dinners each week, for $20 apiece.The group has been the subject of dozens of news stories around the world, and a documentary film is in the works. A year ago, Mr. Trudeau visited with the press in tow, and his smiling face is proudly displayed around the kitchen.But expectations that this would lead to government funding for administrative costs have not panned out, and this winter Newcomer Kitchen has appealed to the public for donations. The project’s future is tenuous.One warm morning last fall, that week’s group of cooks milled about the Depanneur’s large communal table, sharing jokes and drinking coffee with homemade anise-flavored cookies. Rahaf Alakbani, a 26-year-old Druze woman from Sueda, in Syria’s south, and a former graduate student in English literature, urged everyone to don aprons and get to work. There was pita bread to be cut for the fattoush salad, onions to be browned for shakriya, a thick beef stew, and semolina flour to be mixed for the maamoul cookies.“I had no professional cooking experience at all,” Ms. Alakbani said as she led the crew, “but I have always loved cooking.” Like most women here, she learned the recipes at her mother’s side.Syria has one of the world’s oldest and richest cuisines, and regional differences, even between towns, are hotly contested. “There is no official translation,” said Len Senater, who owns the Depanneur. “Sometimes there’s 20 different spellings for the same dish,” and because “each woman’s version is the gold standard,” the taste of the dish changes weekly.Newcomer Kitchen, at its heart, is a social experiment. “Food isn’t the end goal,” said Cara Benjamin-Pace, a retired software entrepreneur who helped found the group. “It’s the platform and conversation of how to bring people together and keep the culinary traditions of these women at a certain level.”It is also, crucially, a source of healing. After ISIS killed one of her brothers as she watched, Gadda Abdulaha and her family scattered around the world. Two of her brothers now work as cooks in Europe, while she landed in Toronto with her husband and two children.Advertisement“I felt very comfortable coming here,” Ms. Abdulaha said, on her first visit back to Newcomer Kitchen since the birth of her daughter, named Rahaf after Ms. Alakbani, who she says saved her from post-traumatic stress and depression. “Listening to the stories of others makes you feel O.K., that you aren’t the only one who suffers. Cooking with them helped me overcome this trauma.”Ms. Alakbani smiled at her little namesake and broke out in song (“always love songs, sexy songs”), clapping a syncopated beat, as others thwacked maamoul dough onto baking sheets from a mold. Soon the kitchen was a riot of singing, dancing and smells, as a potluck lunch of fresh hummus and baba ghanouj, vegetarian kibbe and spiced meat pies called shamborak filled the table for lunch.“Yallah!” Ms. Alakbani shouted over the joyful scene. “Let’s eat.”BEROEA KITCHEN (catering orders only); 647-667-8666; beroeakitchen.comCROWN PASTRIES 2086 Lawrence Avenue East, Scarborough; 647-351-2015; crownpastriesbaklava.comNEWCOMER KITCHEN 1033 College Street, Toronto; 416-828-1990; thedepanneur.ca/newcomerkitchenSOUFI’S 676 Queen Street West, Toronto; 647-350-7737; soufis.caFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D9 of the New York edition with the headline: Toronto’s Bounty of Syrian Food.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 11, 2018
Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Why Walmart is raising its hourly wage.• South Korea spooks the market for digital money.• Bond market investors feel some fear, but will stock market bulls?• And what will happen next with the Trump administration’s plans to reopen offshore drilling?Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.What the retail giant is doing:• Raising the starting wage for all hourly workers to $11 an hour, starting next month and costing an extra $300 million• Expanding maternity leave to 10 weeks and paid parental leave to six weeks• Adding a new benefit for adoption expenses of $5,000 per childAdvertisement• Giving out bonuses of up to $1,000 for eligible workers, determined by tenure, up to a total of $400 millionAdvertisementWho benefits: Walmart said in its most recent annual report that it had nearly 1.5 million associates in the U.S. That’s much bigger than any other company that has announced tax-related worker benefits to date. (AT&T, for instance, has roughly 200,000 employees who will likely benefit from that company’s $1,000-per-worker bonus.)From C.E.O. Doug McMillon:“We are early in the stages of assessing the opportunities tax reform creates for us to invest in our customers and associates and to further strengthen our business, all of which should benefit our shareholders. However, some guiding themes are clear and consistent with how we’ve been investing — lower prices for customers, better wages and training for associates and investments in the future of our company, including in technology. Tax reform gives us the opportunity to be more competitive globally and to accelerate plans for the U.S.”Who benefits: Walmart said in its most recent annual report that it had nearly 1.5 million associates in the U.S. That’s much bigger than any other company that has announced tax-related worker benefits to date. (AT&T, for instance, has roughly 200,000 employees who will likely benefit from that company’s $1,000-per-worker bonus.)What else is behind the move? The retailer’s efforts to keep workers amid a tightening labor market, which has led companies to fight to keep workers. (The current unemployment rate is at just 4.7 percent.)More from Matthew Boyle of Bloomberg:With the wage increase and bonus payment, the world’s biggest retailer seeks to even its pay gap with resurgent rival Target Corp., while simultaneously sending a high-profile thank you to the U.S. government for slashing the corporate tax rate.Critics’ corner
            Wal-Mart, which had nearly $14 Billion in net income in FY2017 and announced a $20 Billion share buyback in Oct., says tax reform gives it financial wherewithal to spend $700 million on increased wages and one-time bonuses:https://t.co/oQW0tRlzyb via @business — Michael J. de la MercedDropbox has filed confidentially with the Securities and Exchange Commission to go public, Bloomberg reports.The closely-held file-sharing company with a valuation of $10 billion is among a group of high-profile tech start-ups that investors have been waiting for to go public. The offering would follow the disappointing debut of another of those companies, Snap, in March. Shares of Snap are down 15 percent from their initial public offering price.Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan will be the lead underwriters on the I.P.O.Dropbox had annualized sales of more than $1 billion, its chief executive, Drew Houston, told Bloomberg in January last year.Bloomberg reports: “A timing quirk in the tax overhaul that President Donald Trump signed last month may be good news for companies such as Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc., all of which began their fiscal years before Jan. 1.”AdvertisementThe provision at issue, “in effect, gives a company until the end of its fiscal year to measure what’s cash and what isn’t for tax purposes,”That means companies, which began their fiscal years before Jan. 1, have more time “to reduce foreign cash they’ll accumulate this year.”Apple, for one, “may be able to lop more than $4 billion off a future tax bill,” according to Stephen Shay, a tax and business law professor at Harvard Law School, who wrote the “potential loophole” last month.Shares in the money-transfer services provider were up as much as 8 percent this morning after the company said that it was testing the use of Ripple’s XRP.It’s not quite the same as becoming Long Blockchain, but it still reflects the enthusiasm among investors that arises when a company associates itself with the virtual currency industry.From Moneygram’s C.E.O., Alex Holmes:“Every day blockchain technology is changing the norm and encouraging innovation. Ripple is at the forefront of blockchain technology and we look forward to piloting xRapid. We’re hopeful it will increase efficiency and improve services to MoneyGram’s customers.”— Michael J. de la MercedHere’s what the veteran Wall Street consigliere told Bloomberg:“Cryptocurrencies create so many issues that no one agency can be legitimately expected to deal with them, and FSOC would be an ideal place to bring the agencies together.”— Michael J. de la MercedAs of this morning, Bitcoin was down 4.5 percent, Ethereum was down 9 percent and Ripple was down 13 percent, according to CoinMarketCap.Thank the South Korean government, which may  ban virtual currency trading in what has been the third-largest market.Behind the potential moveOfficials have been concerned about tax evasion and rampant speculation.More from Song Jung-a and Bryan Harris of the FT:“There are great concerns regarding virtual currencies and the justice ministry is basically preparing a bill to ban cryptocurrency trading through exchanges,” said Park Sang-ki, South Korea’s justice minister.A spokesman for President Moon Jae-in played down the comments, saying nothing was finalized. But investors remained spooked.AdvertisementBitcoin fever shows no other signs of stopping, however. Binance.com, a big virtual currency exchange, said that it had signed up 240,000 users in an hour yesterday. And strategists at Goldman Sachs wrote that virtual currencies may work as real money someday, particularly in developing countries.The virtual currency flyaround• Matt Levine writes that a pump-and-dump mentality that has taken hold of some Bitcoin trading. (Bloomberg View)• The answer to Bitcoin’s energy-use problem could be a 23-million-digit prime number. (Bloomberg)• The North American Bitcoin Conference no longer takes Bitcoin for ticket payments. (CNBC)The S. & P. 500 closed down slightly yesterday at 2,748.23. The Dow did the same, at 25,369.13. As Barron’s writes, “Stocks slid on Wednesday, because sometimes they do that.”But is there cause for fear? Bond investors appear to think so.What happened: The yield for 10-year Treasuries hit a nine-month intraday high of almost 2.6 percent yesterday.Why? • Central banks’ continuing withdrawal from crisis-era bond purchases• Investor worry that inflation will edge up• That Bloomberg report about China hesitating over Treasury purchases (although a Chinese government agency has cast doubt on it)The even bigger worryThat China will use its central bank to throw a brushback pitch at the U.S. Here’s what Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations told the NYT:“It is possible too that China wants to signal to its people that it will not keep financing the U.S. when the U.S. is not treating China with respect.”Analysts at the Eurasia Group found that scenario unlikely in a recent note.Critics’ cornerAdvertisement• Bill Gross declared that we’re now in a bond bear market. (Bloomberg)• Richard Barley asks, “Is the great bond blowout finally happening?” (WSJ)Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has already removed Florida from his department’s plan to reopen oil drilling off U.S. coastlines — which pleased the state’s governor, Rick Scott, but angered nearly everyone else.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Here’s who else wants out:• South Carolina, New Jersey and Maryland, all led by Republicans• New York, North Carolina, Delaware and California, all led by DemocratsMore on the stakes, from Timothy Puko of the WSJ:“If its final decisions on what is or is not open to leasing ignores environmental impact and appears to be driven by nothing but politics, the courts could set it aside,” said John Leshy, an emeritus professor at University of California, Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco who was the Interior’s solicitor during the Clinton administration.The environmental long read: “The Rockefellers vs. the Company that Made Them Rockefellers,” in New York magazine.• The naming of Ajit Jain and Greg Abel as vice chairmen of Berkshire Hathaway, as part of a dispersal of Warren Buffett’s responsibilities, “might sound like a fudge — but it’s also a sensible division of labor,” John Foley writes. (Breakingviews)• Tara Lachapelle appears to be in the “Greg Abel is the next Berkshire C.E.O.” camp. (Gadfly)• The Oracle of Omaha himself said that his health was fine and he was staying as C.E.O. He added of the two men: “They both have Berkshire in their blood. They love the company.” (NYT)As President Trump negotiates with lawmakers over a deal to protect the undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers, corporate leaders aren’t letting up.An open letter to Congressional leaders from 141 signatories — including Ginni Rometty of IBM, Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook, Dara Khosrowshahi of Uber and Steve Schwarzman of Blackstone — demanded a “permanent bipartisan solution.”AdvertisementMore from the letter:In addition to causing a tremendous upheaval in the lives of DACA employees, failure to act in time will lead to businesses losing valuable talent, cause disruptions in the work force, and will result in significant costs.A roadblock: Several House Republicans have put forth an immigration proposal that clashes with Mr. Trump’s parameters for a bipartisan deal. One of them, Representative Raúl Labrador of Idaho, warned, “This is the only bill that’s going to unify the conference, and it’s going to get us to a majority of the conference.”The Washington flyaround• Mr. Trump declined to commit to being interviewed by Robert Mueller, backing away from a statement last year. And Mr. Mueller has hired Ryan Dickey, a veteran cybercrimes prosecutor. (NYT)• Mr. Trump’s companies sold more than $35 million worth of real estate last year, 70 percent of it to shell companies that obscured the buyers’ identities. (USA Today)• During a meeting about immigration, Mr. Trump suggested bringing back earmarks, the practice of stuffing funding for pet projects into legislation. (NYT)• Lawmakers in at least six states have introduced bills to forbid internet providers from blocking or slowing down sites or online services, a response to the F.C.C.’s repeal of net neutrality rules. (NYT)• The Trump administration plans to unveil a revision to banking rules that mandate lending to poor borrowers. (WSJ)The showstopper at the American Economic Association’s conference was a panel stocked with women, presenting research that showed the systemic forces arrayed against them in the field — and prompting pledges from leaders to do better.More from Jim Tankersley and Noam Scheiber of the NYT:Paper after paper presented at the American Economic Association panel showed a pattern of gender discrimination, beginning with barriers women face in choosing to study economics and extending through the life cycle of their careers, including securing job opportunities, writing research papers, gaining access to top publications and earning proper credit for published work.Over in Hollywood: Controversy has erupted over reshoots of the movie “All the Money in the World,” for which Michelle Williams was paid scale and Mark Wahlberg an additional $1.2 million.AdvertisementThe misconduct flyaround• The creator of the anonymous “Shitty Media Men” spreadsheet revealed herself amid controversy over whether Harper’s Magazine would do so. (NYT)• James Rosen, a former correspondent for Fox News, and Joel Achenbach, a reporter at the WaPo, face allegations of workplace misconduct. (NPR, WaPo)Meet Guo Wengui, who’s living in exile in a penthouse in Central Park after lobbing hard-to-verify accusations at China’s elite.Here’s what he said of the anti-corruption czar Wang Qishan, according to Lauren Hilgers of the NYT Magazine:Wang Qishan, Guo has claimed, is hiding the money he secretly earned in the Hainan-based conglomerate HNA Group, a company with an estimated $35 billion worth of investments in the United States. (HNA Group denies any ties to Wang and is suing Guo.) He accused Wang of carrying on an affair with the actress Fan Bingbing. (Fan is reportedly suing Guo for defamation.)• Lazard has hired Andrea Bozzi, most recently the co-head of French investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a managing director in Paris, Reuters reports.• HSBC has hired Michael Parry, Liu Kang and Jimmy He for its Asia-Pacific equities team, Bloomberg reports.• Uber had a system called Ripley to remotely shut down computers and lock up data when police raided its overseas offices, according to three people with knowledge of the system. (Bloomberg)• Ferrero of Italy is close to formalizing a $2.8 billion deal for Nestlé’s U.S. candy business. (FT)• Blackstone agreed to pay about $1.1 billion for a luxury resort on the Hawaiian island of Maui, according to a person with knowledge of the deal. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• Google bought Redux, a British start-up whose technology lets phone displays double as speakers. (Bloomberg)• Bain Capital, Blackstone Group and Silver Lake have expressed interest in Li Tong Group, an iPhone recycling business that could be worth as much as $1 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. (Bloomberg)• SS & C Technology Holdings, which provides tech infrastructure for finance, is in advanced talks to buy DST Systems, a rival also active in the health care market, for more than $5 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. (Reuters)• Intel released test results showing that its chip security fixes would slow personal computers by no more than 10 percent. Initial reports suggested a larger impact. (Bloomberg)• The Federal Reserve’s economic stimulus campaign turned a big profit again in 2017, but the windfall is showing signs of slowing. (NYT)• Chinese-born, U.S.-trained tech talent is increasingly returning to China, drawn by plentiful venture capital and government incentives for research. (Bloomberg)• How (and why) the former Disney chairman Michael Eisner won over the fan-owners of a fourth-tier English soccer club. (NYT)• Private debt collectors brought the Internal Revenue Service $6.7 million in the last fiscal year — at a cost of $20 million. (NYT)• Canada has filed a sweeping World Trade Organization case against U.S. tariffs. (NYT)• Advisers at some of the biggest discount brokerage firms make more money if they steer clients toward more expensive products, according to disclosures from the firms and former employees. (WSJ)AdvertisementWe’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SAPNA MAHESHWARI and SYDNEY EMBERJAN. 11, 2018
Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, said in an interview with The New York Times on Thursday that he wanted the social network to focus on “meaningful interaction.” But his idea of what that phrase means is likely to differ from that of news industry executives and editors — and therein lies a conflict.Media companies are bracing for the changes coming to Facebook’s News Feed — the column that appears when the site or app is opened — that will favor posts by friends over material from news organizations and other businesses.“Nobody knows exactly what impact it’ll have, but in a lot of ways, it looks like the end of the social news era,” Jacob Weisberg, the chairman and editor in chief of the Slate Group, said on Friday. “Everybody’s Facebook traffic has been declining all year, so they’ve been de-emphasizing news. But for them to make such a fundamental change in the platform — I don’t think people were really anticipating it.”Although Facebook users craved conversation and journalists gave them things to talk about, the relationship between the platform and media outlets was imperfect from the start.AdvertisementFacebook became a news powerhouse with reluctance, and journalism executives allied themselves with it mostly out of necessity, given the two billion Facebook users who were often a screen-tap away from an article or video.AdvertisementOver the years, as Facebook and media companies entangled themselves with each other, users’ feeds that had once been filled with chatter about graduations, changing relationship statuses and other subjects belonging to the private sphere morphed into digital spaces rife with public matters — news! — and the endless and endlessly contentious comment threads that went with them.The uncle you once looked up to, it turned out, had a habit of sharing rude memes that you did not want to see, much less Like.That led to a problem for Facebook, which needs its users to linger, so that it can deliver more highly targeted ads — that’s how the company made a net profit of $10.2 billion in 2016.Facebook says its changes will improve the “well-being” of its users. In an effort to usher in this new mood of online pleasantness, its product teams will drop the former goal of helping people find “relevant content” as they test the “meaningful interactions” thesis.The shift in strategy comes, not coincidentally, after a year in which Facebook came under governmental scrutiny for its role in spreading misinformation and hate speech. Mr. Zuckerberg gave his interview to The Times as his company was preparing for a Jan. 17 hearing, the second Capitol Hill inquiry into the online spread of extremist propaganda. During hearings last fall, Facebook told Congress that agents working for a Kremlin-linked company had disseminated content that reached an estimated 126 million users in the United States in 2016.As a result of Facebook’s attempt to distance itself from an overheated news cycle and make a return to its friends-and-family roots, publishers who depended on it for traffic are likely to find themselves in trouble.News outlets that have built a strong bond with readers and viewers through other means will be watching closely, to see whether the size of their audiences — and corresponding advertising dollars — will shrink in the coming months.Advertisement“Changing the terms rapidly is really bringing into focus just how powerful the platforms have become and how the infrastructure is a very difficult place for publishers to operate and navigate,” John Ridding, the chief executive of The Financial Times, said. “That has big implications for how people receive news, where they find it and what the quality of their news is.”Facebook executives held off-the-record meetings with publications like The Wall Street Journal at the end of last year and spoke of renewing the focus on one-to-one communication among people who know one another over content distributed by publishers, according to a person who was familiar with the discussions but not authorized to speak publicly. Even after the heads-up, however, the specifics announced this week came as a surprise, the person said.Jonah Peretti, the chief executive of BuzzFeed, highlighted the tensions between media organizations and the internet giants Facebook and Google in December, when he publicly criticized the mega-platforms that have fueled the site’s success.“Google and Facebook are taking the vast majority of ad revenue, and paying content creators far too little for the value they deliver to users,” Mr. Peretti wrote in a memo published on BuzzFeed.On Friday, the company, which once called Facebook the “new ‘front page’ for the internet,” posted an ad on the site urging people to download a news app from BuzzFeed. In its ad copy for the app, BuzzFeed boiled down the ramifications of Facebook’s latest algorithm change into a pithy phrase: “Facebook is breaking up with news.”Nearly half of American adults get at least some of their news from Facebook, according to a recent survey from the Pew Research Center. Once the change is rolled out, people will still see articles shared by their friends — but posts from publisher pages will be less visible.Facebook’s pulling back from the news — which necessarily depends on conflict — and elevation of homier material may bolster the company’s attempt to enter China, where it has been met with stiff resistance.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Facebook is just desperate to get into China, and it will never do that unless it censors news — and this is actually a neat solution to that,” Mr. Weisberg, the Slate chairman, said. “If you only have news on the platform shared by users, users who live under repressive regimes don’t have access to real news and can’t share it, because it’s legally prohibited.”As the site is now, every Facebook user sees a different set of posts and ads. These are ranked and tailored to what their online habits have suggested about their interests. Although Facebook prioritizes certain material — like those birth announcements that quickly draw Likes and comments — there are no firm rules for what pops up high in a given feed. In the coming weeks, though, users are likely to notice a reduction in how many posts appear from media organizations.Advertisement“Because space in News Feed is limited, showing more posts from friends and family and updates that spark conversation means we’ll show less public content, including videos and other posts from publishers,” Adam Mosseri, the head of Facebook’s News Feed, wrote in a blog post on Thursday.Jason Kint, the chief executive of Digital Content Next, a trade group that represents entertainment and news organizations, including The Times, was skeptical of the Facebook plan.“If this change is as significant as they describe it, news organizations will go out of business or succeed based on a change that they didn’t necessarily have input on,” Mr. Kint said. “It reads as something that will drive up engagement and probably push away policy risk, because they’re not allowing news properties to have the same sort of presence in their feeds.”Mr. Kint added that he had hoped that it would have found a way to weed out hoaxes and made-up news stories that did not penalize publishers.Raju Narisetti, the chief executive of the Gizmodo Media Group, the unit of Univision that operates Jezebel and other sites, said he was expecting the changes to kick in any day. He added that he had not heard from Facebook about what it will mean for his company and, like others in the media industry, he suggested that Mr. Zuckerberg’s company should be less mysterious.“As always, it would be good to see transparency from any platform, particularly Facebook, as to how they are going about deciding what constitutes quality,” Mr. Narisetti said.For media companies, a reliance on the company as a driver of traffic has proved an unreliable business model. A Facebook campaign against clickbait, for instance, sent click-dependent publishers like Upworthy into a tailspin several years ago.Recently, in what may be a digital augury of sorts, Facebook experimented with removing news from the feeds of users in several countries and placing it into a separate feature called Explore, to the alarm of publishers. A Serbian editor described the shock of seeing traffic to his news site plummet while the experiment was underway, writing in a Times Op-Ed that such unpredictable changes by the company represented an existential threat “to the ability of citizens in all of the countries subject to Facebook’s experimentation to discover the truth about their societies and their leaders.”AdvertisementIn another initiative, Facebook paid millions to publishers, including The Times, to invest in making video shorts for Facebook Live, but it is unclear how successful the effort was for Facebook and the news organizations that signed on.Savvy publishers have already recognized that they must find sizable audiences without the help of Facebook users. Referral traffic to media content from Facebook dropped by 25 percent from February 2017 to October 2017, according to Parse.ly, a digital publishing analytics company.The algorithm changes will almost certainly affect ad-supported media companies like BuzzFeed and Bustle, which depend in part on Facebook for eyeballs. Publishers that have lately persuaded readers to pony up for subscriptions, including The Washington Post and The Times, will also have to confront likely declines in traffic.As he has at the start of each year since 2009, Mr. Zuckerberg began 2018 by letting his audience in on the personal challenges he hoped to conquer. The chief one he mentioned in his Jan. 4 Facebook post was making the site he co-founded in 2004 a force for good. His company’s return to its scrapbook roots seems to be part of his attempt to live up to that aim.“The world feels anxious and divided,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote, “and Facebook has a lot of work to do — whether it’s protecting our community from abuse and hate, defending against interference by nation states, or making sure that time spent on Facebook is time well spent.”Email Sapna Maheshwari at sapna@nytimes.com or follow her on Twitter: @sapna.A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: . . . That Users Might Not Want.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byStocks have risen for so long and with such steadiness that Wall Street is becoming nervous. What’s an investor to do? For insight, check out our quarterly report on investing. By Jeff SommerEven if you don’t follow financial markets closely, if you have money in those markets it is worth considering, every so often, where you have been and where the currents may be taking you. In a nutshell, the stock market in the United States has generated enormous wealth for investors, and in recent months it has roared ahead with scarcely a setback, raising questions about how sustainable those gains really are.Bonds haven’t performed as spectacularly as stocks. There have been signs that fixed-income markets just may be ready for a long-awaited shift in direction.We’ve selected nine articles with reporting and analysis on where the markets have been and some clues on where they may be heading. Together the selection provides an introduction to investing. We hope that at least some of these articles will entertain you as well. A rare calm has settled over the stock market, which has been prospering with barely any downturns. That condition is highly unusual, and some fear that it raises the odds that share prices will descend. Read more »Green bond funds seek securities with clear environmental benefits. Their managers chase the promise of a double bottom line: growing returns and falling carbon emissions. Read more »Investing in Bitcoin might make you rich, sure. But how much do you know about tulips? No bubble is too big to burst, our columnist says. Read more »After a big year for stocks in China and India, emerging market stock funds are attracting attention from value investors who have been rummaging in staid sectors like manufacturing, mining and finance. Read more »Artificial intelligence programs are becoming increasingly useful. They are beginning to help fund managers run their portfolios. But will they be good enough to replace them? Read more »There are many ways of scoring outsize returns. Three top-performing funds did it in the last three months of 2017 by focusing on small-cap stocks like a timber company, a cabinet manufacturer and an online lender. Read more »A new book promises to be “a total beginner’s guide to getting good with money.” It does a good job, though our reviewer has a few misgivings. Read more »The breakaway climb of growth stocks like Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google has unbalanced many investor portfolios. Is it time to trim tech and tilt back to value? Read more »Bond yields have been rising but from very low levels, creating a challenging environment for money making. The recently enacted tax package could be a moderate benefit for corporate bonds. Small portfolio tweaks, emerging markets and money market funds are options — but prospects for big profits are rare. Read more »Jeff Sommer writes Strategies, a column on markets, finance and the economy. He also edits business news. Previously, he was a national editor. At Newsday, he was the foreign editor and a correspondent in Asia and Eastern Europe.  @jeffsommerFacebookAdvertisementBy CECILIA KANG and DAISUKE WAKABAYASHIJAN. 23, 2018
WASHINGTON — In November 2016, Dipayan Ghosh was still reeling from Hillary Clinton’s defeat as he left what was supposed to be a celebration party at the Javits Convention Center in New York to attend morning meetings for his job at the Washington offices of Facebook.As Mr. Ghosh, a former White House technology adviser to President Barack Obama, made the four-hour drive, troubling questions started nagging him. What if fake news on Facebook and other sites had an impact on voters? How did the campaigns and any outsiders use ads on the site to influence the election?A few months later, Mr. Ghosh quit his job at Facebook, where he worked on privacy and public policy issues. On Tuesday, a Washington think tank, New America, and Harvard’s Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy published a  report he co-wrote, asserting that technology behind digital advertising — the financial lifeblood of Facebook, Google and Twitter — has made disinformation campaigns more effective.“The problems were much broader than we imagined, and it was not just about one tool or platform,” said Mr. Ghosh, who with his co-author, Ben Scott, worked on devising Mrs. Clinton’s tech policy platform. “It’s the profit model underlying the whole digital advertising system.”AdvertisementMr. Ghosh and Mr. Scott are the latest members of the political party that more eagerly embraced Silicon Valley to sharply criticize the tech industry. Tech policy officials from the Obama administration and from Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, as well as prominent Democrats in Congress, are demanding changes from companies they had long viewed as too important and nimble for regulations.AdvertisementSenators Mark Warner of Virginia and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota are demanding greater disclosures from companies like Facebook, Google and Twitter for political advertising on their sites. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, who has big political backers from Silicon Valley, fears the biggest companies have edged out competition.Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has called for the Federal Trade Commission to restart an antitrust investigation into Google. And Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota has introduced a bill that would update antitrust policies to take more direct aim at the tech sector.“Democrats and progressives still strongly feel that there are shared values with Silicon Valley, but there is also a real concern over the industry’s increasingly concentrated wealth and power,” said Daniel Sepulveda, an ambassador and deputy assistant secretary at the State Department for the Obama administration.Karen Kornbluh, who served as Mr. Obama’s ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said that before the election, there was a view of “internet utopianism” in government. Officials looked to the internet to solve problems in education, income inequality and global democracy. They called on tech executives to help with those initiatives and hired from Google and other tech outfits to bring their expertise into the White House.“So if you were championing the best things about the internet, it was easy to be disappointed that it was hijacked to subvert the very things it could foster,” Ms. Kornbluh said. But she said few people in government were looking with a full view of how social media and other internet services posed national security, economic and other risks.Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Scott played a leading role in helping to create the tech-friendly policies that helped companies like Facebook and Google flourish during the Obama administration. But as more information trickled out about the role played by technology firms in Russia’s attempts to influence the presidential election, they, like many Democrats, became disillusioned.“We were always careful to condition our optimism and our advocacy that this technology was potentially a double-edged sword,” said Mr. Scott, who is a senior adviser to the Open Technology Institute at New America. “But I guess we didn’t expect them to hit home quite as hard as it did.”AdvertisementTitled “#DigitalDeceit: Exposing the Internet Technologies of Precision Propaganda,” their report argues that the interests of internet giants in helping advertisers run persuasive campaigns are aligned with those of someone looking to spread misinformation.The authors suggest a few ways to regulate the advertising technology industry, including requiring more transparency for political advertising, restricting data collection or ad targeting on political issues, and strengthening consumer protection and competition policies.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Republicans have also expressed concerns about internet giants. Many on President Trump’s campaign suspected that Google rigged search results in favor of Mrs. Clinton, questioning the influence of high-profile supporters of hers like Eric Schmidt, who is the former executive chairman of Google’s parent company, Alphabet. They were outraged by claims that Facebook manipulated its trending topics feature to push down results related to Republicans.But increasingly, the most vocal criticism is coming from Democrats. Tom Wheeler, Mr. Obama’s head of the Federal Communications Commission, recently called for social media firms to make it easier to figure out how certain information goes viral, who is sending those posts and what impact that activity may have.“The internet was once heralded as the great democratizing tool,” Mr. Wheeler said. “That vision was smashed by the algorithms of the social media platforms.”Last year, Google, Facebook and Twitter admitted that groups with ties to the Kremlin had used their online services to push false news stories or controversial headlines on divisive topics. In some cases, those groups amplified their reach by buying ads.On Friday, Twitter said it had found more than 50,000 Russian-linked accounts tweeting election-related content in the 10 weeks preceding the vote. Twitter said it would email notifications to 677,775 people in the United States who followed, retweeted or liked tweets from accounts linked to propaganda efforts by the Internet Research Agency, a shadowy Russian company linked to the Kremlin.But Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Scott said it would be a mistake to focus solely on the Russians. They argued that the tools used by the Russians could easily be applied to other misinformation campaigns. In the same way digital advertising campaigns spend relatively small sums of money to reach millions of people, any party with an interest in swaying sentiment can gain access to reams of behavioral data on the internet to target specific audiences.Improvements in artificial intelligence for digital advertising could allow for more precise audience targeting and make the problem even worse, they said.AdvertisementFundamentally, the problem is that “disinformation campaigns and legitimate advertising campaigns are effectively indistinguishable on leading internet platforms, ” Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Scott wrote.This month, Mr. Ghosh’s former employer, Facebook, announced changes to what its more than two billion members would see most often. The company said it would give what users’ friends and family shared priority over content from publishers and brands, with the goal of delivering a more positive experience on Facebook.The changes were viewed as a response to the wave of criticism accusing the company of allowing its algorithms to promote misleading news and misinformation. On Friday, Facebook also said it would give priority to news sources that its users ranked as the most credible.Mr. Ghosh said that these changes were significant and might throw off propagators of disinformation in the short term, but that they — like advertisers — would adjust. Ultimately, the underlying business model of digital advertising hasn’t changed, and it’s not clear how Facebook will handle content that advertisers pay to promote.“I felt like Facebook was an amazing company, and in many ways I still think it is,” Mr. Ghosh said. “But something changed in me at the Javits Center.”Cecilia Kang reported from Washington, and Daisuke Wakabayashi from San Francisco.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Once Cozy With Tech Giants, Democrats Grow Wary.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVID GELLESJAN. 8, 2018
A creator of the iPhone called the device “addictive.”A Twitter founder said the “internet is broken.”An early Facebook investor raised questions about the social network’s impact on children’s brains.Now, two of the biggest investors on Wall Street have asked Apple to study the health effects of its products and to make it easier for parents to limit their children’s use of iPhones and iPads.Once uncritically hailed for their innovation and economic success, Silicon Valley companies are under fire from all sides, facing calls to take more responsibility for their role in everything from election meddling and hate speech to physical health and internet addiction.Advertisement“Companies have a role to play in helping to address these issues,” said Barry Rosenstein, managing partner of Jana Partners, an investment firm that wrote an open letter to Apple this weekend pushing it to look at its products’ health effects, especially on children. “As more and more founders of the biggest tech companies are acknowledging today, the days of just throwing technology out there and washing your hands of the potential impact are over.”AdvertisementThe backlash against big tech has been growing for months. Facebook and Twitter are under scrutiny for their roles in enabling Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election and for facilitating abusive behavior. Google was hit with a record antitrust fine in Europe for improperly exploiting its market power.But until now, Apple had escaped largely unscathed, and concerns about the deleterious effects of excessive technology use have not been among the most pressing matters for Silicon Valley executives.Jana, an activist hedge fund, wrote its letter with Calstrs, the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, which manages the pensions of California’s public-school teachers. When such investors pressure companies to change their behavior, it is typically with the goal of lifting a sagging stock price. In this case, Jana and Calstrs said they were trying to raise awareness about an issue they cared deeply about, adding that if Apple was proactive about making changes, it could help the business.“We believe the long-term health of its youngest customers and the health of society, our economy and the company itself are inextricably linked,” the investors said in the letter. Jana, which is often vilified for its aggressive focus on short-term profits, also said it would be raising a fund this year that would engage in more such campaigns, an effort that could help soften its image.Whatever the motivations, the two large investors are tapping into the growing anxiety among parents about their children’s preoccupation with devices, at the expense of activities like reading and sports.“Over the past 10 years, there’s been a bottom-up backlash,” said Sherry Turkle, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the author of “Alone Together: Why We Expect More From Technology and Less From Each Other.” “You see it in things like people not sending their kids to schools that use iPads, and kids telling their parents to put their phones down.”For years, researchers have been sounding the alarm over the ubiquity of mobile phones and social media. A 2015 study by Common Sense Media, a research group that studies technology use, found that more than half of teenagers spent upward of four hours a day looking at screens, and that for a quarter of teenagers, the figure was more than eight hours. In another survey, in 2016, half the teenagers said they felt addicted to their mobile devices.Advertisement“These things can be incredibly addictive,” said Tony Fadell, a former Apple executive who helped create the iPod and iPhone. “It’s amazing, but there are a lot of unintended consequences.”A growing roster of prominent technology executives have grown worried about the creations that brought them fame and fortune.Sean Parker, an early investor in Facebook, reflected on the sprawling influence of the social network. “It literally changes your relationship with society, with each other,” he said in an interview with Axios in November. “It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what it’s doing to our children’s brains.”Evan Williams, one of the founders of Twitter, last year lamented the degree to which the messaging service had become a bastion for hateful speech. “The internet is broken,” he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Chamath Palihapitiya, an early Facebook executive and the chief executive of Social Capital, a venture capital firm, said in November that he felt “tremendous guilt” about his role in building the social network.“The short term, dopamine-driven feedback loops that we have created are destroying how society works,” he said. “No civil discourse, no cooperation, misinformation, mistruth. And it’s not an American problem. This is not about Russian ads. This is a global problem.”By going after Apple, Jana and Calstrs, which together own about $2 billion worth of the company’s stock, have selected the tech giant that is perhaps least dependent on its users’ time. Because Apple makes most of its money selling hardware, rather than through digital advertising, it theoretically could afford to encourage its users to spend less time with its products.“Apple’s business model is not predicated on excessive use of your products,” Jana and Calstrs said in their letter to the company.For this reason, said Ms. Turkle, the M.I.T. professor, “it turns out that Apple is the company best positioned to act.”AdvertisementIn a statement, Apple said that the parental controls already on its devices “lead the industry” and that “we think deeply about how our products are used and the impact they have on users and the people around them.”“We take this responsibility very seriously,” the statement continued, “and we are committed to meeting and exceeding our customers’ expectations, especially when it comes to protecting kids.”Fears about technology addiction are not new. The BlackBerry, an early smartphone, was nicknamed “CrackBerry.” Adam Alter, a social psychologist and the author of “Irresistible: The Rise of Addictive Technology and the Business of Keeping Us Hooked,” documents instances of internet addiction spanning the globe.But some tech executives now acknowledge that far from being an accident, their products were designed to be addictive.Mr. Parker said that when Facebook was getting started, the thought process was about “how do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible?”Mr. Palihapitiya said as Facebook was rapidly growing, “in the back, deep, deep recesses of our minds, we kind of knew something bad could happen.”Mr. Fadell said that at the time Apple was designing the iPhone, “we had no idea this was going to happen.” But, he added, people today are simply spending too much time looking at their phones.“Now it needs to be addressed,” he said. “It’s been 10 years in the making.”Even Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook and usually a staunch defender of his company’s influence, has appeared more reflective in recent days.“The world feels anxious and divided, and Facebook has a lot of work to do — whether it’s protecting our community from abuse and hate, defending against interference by nation states, or making sure that time spent on Facebook is time well spent,” he said in a Facebook post last week. “My personal challenge for 2018 is to focus on fixing these important issues.”Follow David Gelles on Twitter: @dgelles.A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Prodding Apple on Addiction.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Breakingviews By                     
JENNIFER SABA

JAN. 2, 2018
The golden age of television programming is heading for a grisly finale. Netflix, Amazon, Apple and Hulu are on course to increase their spending on new shows and movies at a faster clip than the growth of the overall video-streaming market. Consolidation among traditional media groups is only adding to the frenzy. Something will have to give.Netflix set off the arms race. In 2017, the company, founded by Reed Hastings, directed $6 billion toward licensing and original series like “Stranger Things.” In 2018, executives plan to earmark up to $8 billion for content, a 33 percent increase. Across the industry, the number of original television shows more than doubled from 2010 to 2016, to 455, according to the research firm MoffettNathanson.Total spending on content by the big four media upstarts in 2018 will mushroom some 30 percent, year over year, to $18 billion, according to a Breakingviews forecast based on analysts’ estimates. Yet the entire global video-streaming market is expected to increase 16 percent to about $21 billion, according to PwC.That means there has never been a better time to be a couch potato, but it’s glum news for the companies. The tangle of options in streaming services and programming, chasing a finite number of subscribers, suggests the industry is entering an unsustainable investment battle — and a price war may follow as players try to rake in extra market share.Netflix looks like a survivor. It was the first mover in video streaming a decade ago and has 100 million global customers. The snag is that it is burning cash — up to $2.5 billion in 2017. Apple and Amazon could easily outmatch Netflix on content budgets if they decided to abandon financial reason. Amazon, for instance, coughed up $250 million for rights to the “Lord of the Rings” TV series, according to a report in Deadline Hollywood. Facebook and Alphabet’s YouTube are lurking in the shadows, but that could change.Hulu, with its hydra-headed ownership split among 21st Century Fox, Comcast, Walt Disney and Time Warner, is in a weaker position. Its owners are separately planning their own direct-to-consumer products, adding to the competition. Then there is the possibility of consolidation as media firms bulk up their own content to feed their services. In the latest example, Disney has agreed to buy some of Fox, including its stake in Hulu, for $52 billion. The result is too many characters chasing not enough action.Jennifer Saba is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported bySketchbookA graphic reminder of the greatest secret to success as an author.By R. O. BlechmanR.O. Blechman is an artist and animator, and the illustrator, most recently, of “GOD: 48 Famous and Fascinating Minds Talk About God.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySketchbookBy Grant SniderGrant Snider is a cartoonist and illustrator, and the author, most recently, of “The Shape of Ideas.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe first days of the annual gathering of the World Economic Forum, in sketches. By Patrick ChappatteDAVOS, Switzerland — In the Swiss Alps for the annual gathering of the World Economic Forum, cartoonist Patrick Chappatte shares some observations. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGraphic ReviewAn illustrated response to an anthropologist's urgent, vividly drawn inquiry into the havoc wreaked on human life by America's immigration policy.By Kevin PyleKevin Pyle is a graphic novelist, artist and illustrator, and the co-author, most recently, of “Migrant: Stories of Hope and Resilience” and “Bad for You: Exposing the War on Fun.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up for our newsletter.Advertisement
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 9, 2018
A novel that unpacks a supposedly troubled period in Picasso’s life, “Cooking for Picasso” describes the fictional relationship and mutual inspiration between a young cook and the artist in the South of France in 1936. The author will talk about the food, culture and art she discovered in the region while researching the book: “‘Cooking for Picasso, A Novel’: Camille Aubray in Conversation,” $29, 7 p.m., Jan. 23, 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue (92nd Street), 212-415-5500, 92y.org.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Appreciate: Looking at Picasso  Through a Cook’s Eyes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Alice YinLast week’s cover story is an ode to the ultimate conversation starter among New Yorkers: the subway. As part of The Times’s series on the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s systemwide failures, Jonathan Mahler argued that for all its faults the subway represents the best of New York. It saved the city once and could save it again.Mahler went underground with M.T.A. workers to inspect the crumbling infrastructure and above ground to learn what could be done to fix it. The case for the subway, he concluded, is the case for New York City itself. The subway made it “a place where anything was possible.”We asked readers to share anecdotes about how the subway shaped their own relationships with the city. Their stories include larger-than-life characters, events just strange enough to happen only in New York and memories of how the subway got them through hard times. A selection of responses, edited for length and clarity, follows.For many New Yorkers, the subway served as the backdrop to a burgeoning relationship.In the 1950s, when my girlfriend (and wife-to-be) and I were dating, we traveled by subway to each other’s houses. She was a Bronx girl; I was a Brooklyn boy. The trains at that time allowed us to stand in the first car and look out the window of the door. My stop was Saratoga Avenue on the New Lots-bound train. Hers was Burke Avenue on the 241st Street-bound train. The trip took one and a half hours. We used the time to play subway baseball, using the various light color patterns for home runs, hits and outs. The games were full of fun. There were times when more than 100 runs were scored. I should also note that she was a Yankees fan and I was a Brooklyn Dodgers fan. Fred Kogan, Park Slope, BrooklynI have ridden the A train from 175th Street in Washington Heights since before I was born. One day during my second semester of college, I decided to ride the train with my mom. We then started regularly taking the train together, usually the local C train at 168th Street, its first and last stop. We got a rush from jumping off the crowded A train and into the empty C train, heading straight for the double seats at the end of the car. There we proceeded to slyly eat our breakfast together — coffee and a cheese-filled roll from the bakery. She started slowly, giving me advice about life and money but never about love (“It’s useless,” she would say). Then she began telling me about her life in the Dominican Republic, how scared she was when she first arrived in this country. She told me stories she had never told me before, stories you would tell a friend.For four years, I looked forward to riding the train every morning, because delays and train traffic gave me more time to get to know my mother. I graduated from college four years ago; it was a dream come true for my mom. Now my commute is at best bearable if I get a seat on the train, but I’ll always be thankful for the two-seaters on the C trains that introduced me to my mom. Kio Herrera, Washington Heights, ManhattanI love the New York subway system. I had a rough year of unemployment and found solace in the subway tunnels. With my monthly pass, I had access to a diversity of neighborhoods and culture, leading me to the end of all the lines. I discovered historical landmarks and community activities in the Bronx, the breathtaking views of Inwood, the magic of the 1964 World’s Fair in Queens and the cultural roots deep in Brooklyn.Even the advertisements become part of the New York culture. The best friend I have made in the city sprang from a common interest and amusement over the “If you see something, say something” campaign. It became a challenge to find the cars with our favorite vigilantes. This fun is amplified with the holiday vintage cars in December or at the Transit Museum, where you can see the classic “Subway Sun” ads more classily conveying, “Dude, stop the spread.” Sharon Kapitula, Kips Bay, ManhattanThe subway often surprises New Yorkers with its never-ending pockets of entertainment.I was having a stressful day at work: long hours, lots of emails, short deadlines. On the way home, on the F train headed to the Lower East Side, I couldn’t stop thinking about work and was feeling anxious. A gentleman, who had to be in his late 20s or early 30s, got on the train and announced to everyone that he hoped we were all having a wonderful day. Of course, my first thought was, “Here we go.” Then he started singing and happened to have an amazing voice. While no one stared, you could tell the entire car was listening. He sang a soothing song, and for those few minutes, I legitimately felt my stress levels decrease drastically. The guy made my day and reminded me why I love this city. Christian Lopez, Lower East Side, ManhattanMy friends and I were waiting for the L, heading to some lame band party. We started talking to this super-nice outgoing woman in her 40s, who ended up giving us a bottle of berry Smirnoff she had customized for her friend’s birthday party (pajama party, her friend was an Aquarius). We are still friends on Facebook. At first we weren’t going to drink the vodka, but after our fake IDs struck out in Bushwick bodegas, we totally did. Paige, East Village, ManhattanI lived in New York for five years, from 2003 to 2008, and I still have a subway memory that I think about all the time. It happened when I first moved to New York; I was just out of college and scared out of my mind to be in the city. The train ride took forever, so I would read. One day, I was reading “Naked,” by David Sedaris, and laughing hysterically out loud. Suddenly, the guy sitting right next to me started laughing out loud. I thought it was because of me, but then I looked at him and saw he was reading another David Sedaris book (“Me Talk Pretty One Day”)! I looked at his book, and he looked at mine, and we started laughing together. We didn’t talk or exchange numbers. We both went back to our respective books and enjoyed the ride on that sunny summer day. It was such a nice shared moment and probably one of my best memories from my time in New York. Effie K., Inwood and the Flatiron district, Manhattan, and now ParisMany readers remember a time when a stranger came to someone’s aid while on the subway.One night after celebrating the return of friends from abroad, I caught the 4 train headed uptown from Brooklyn. In the car was an older woman, a middle-aged man, a young woman, a passed-out man and a few others. The passed-out man’s backpack was on the ground. We all looked at one another to see if he was O.K. Having some medical training, I went over and checked to see if he was breathing. He was, with a heavy odor of alcohol coming in waves off his breath. The young woman asked if he was going to be O.K. I said he was, and she smiled as I returned to my seat. As the doors opened at our next stop, she grabbed his backpack and sprinted away. The middle-aged man was off like lightning after her. The older woman jumped between a set of doors screaming, “Thief, thief!” I jumped between a set of doors as well, hoping to delay the train until the bag returned. Within minutes, the middle-aged man ran back into the car, bag in hand. I roused the passed-out man and showed him his returned bag and pointed out the man who returned it. He gave a bleary smile and passed out again. A thunderous round of applause came from the other passengers, and those of us who helped rode the rest of the way home with smiles. Kunal, Upper East Side, ManhattanI was on the subway — the G, I think — and an older male stranger started talking to me, asking me increasingly personal questions. He was working around to asking for my number and making me visibly uncomfortable. It’s the type of encounter I’ve learned to selectively forget, and the only reason I still remember it is because of the middle-aged woman who, after watching from a few seats over, came over and asked, “Will you be O.K.?” before she exited at the next station. The look she gave me — a look that said, “I’m here to step in if you need me” — moved me in a way I didn’t expect, in this space where people usually keep to themselves and mind their own affairs. It was a moment that made me feel that perhaps this vast community of overworked strangers had my back after all. Tao Tao Holmes, Windsor Terrace, BrooklynWe were stuck on the Q train in the tunnel between the Brooklyn Bridge and DeKalb Avenue. It was a long time without any information. A normal-looking man in a suit standing by the door started having a panic attack, basically freaking out. An older woman got out of her seat, went over to him and talked to him in a very calm and caring voice until the train finally started moving again. We applauded when the train doors opened at the station. He got out, and she stayed on. Random people asked her if she was a health care professional, but she was just a regular person who stepped up to help a stranger. It was a beautiful moment in an otherwise miserable commute. Betty, BrooklynFinally, many New Yorkers remember the subway being a place of support during moments of consequence.The day after the 2016 presidential election, I cried with other subway riders — strangers — on the way to work. Soon after, people began putting up multicolored Post-it notes on the walls of one the walking tunnels at the 14th Street-Sixth Avenue stop. The messages, scrawled in Sharpie, ran the gamut — some despairing, most hopeful, a few humorous. It sounds dramatic, but that feeling of unity with so many strangers is one of the most powerful things I’ve ever experienced. The subway levels the playing field and, quite literally, brings the city closer together every single day. Ashley Long, Greenwich Village, ManhattanLate in the day on Sept. 11, 2001, the subways reopened, and I could return home to the Upper East Side. As I boarded the train, I saw a woman in a hijab, a head scarf. I remember marveling at the courage and composure it took, on that day, to be visibly Muslim. But I was more impressed that not only did no one say an angry or intemperate word to her, but also no one even glanced crossly in her direction. The subway is not just an economic engine, a means of mobility, but an agent for tolerance and understanding, as neighborhoods of different hues and accents are fused together. There is too little of that in America today. Haroon Moghul, the BronxAlice Yin is an intern for the magazine.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.AdvertisementBy TEJAL RAOJAN. 9, 2018
Angie Mar stood at her kitchen’s narrow steel pass on a recent Saturday, gliding through a dinner rush that wouldn’t let up until close to midnight.“My loves,” she announced, “coming my way I’ve got one branzino, two côtes de bœuf — one rare, one medium — one poutine, and in six minutes, a duck for two with a lamb chop and a tartiflette going with a porterhouse, and in 11 minutes I’d like a full clean down of the kitchen.”“Yes, chef,” five cooks replied in unison.Ms. Mar, 35, is the chef and owner of the Beatrice Inn. For nearly a century, the space in a West Village brownstone was many things — a Prohibition-era speakeasy, a family-owned Italian restaurant, a club with a celebrity clientele — but it was never known for the prowess of its kitchen, which at less than 200 square feet is minuscule even by New York standards.Ms. Mar changed that. The Beatrice Inn has become a magnet for awards, including her 2017 nod from Food & Wine magazine as one of the country’s best new chefs. A July review in The New Yorker proclaimed, “Angie Mar is a badass” — not just for buying the restaurant from the Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter in 2016, but also for quickly turning it into “a buzzy foodie destination.”AdvertisementMs. Mar, who had been cooking for less than a decade, did this by following her culinary North Star — meat, in all its glory — and her own sumptuous, grand cooking sensibility, defying the movement in fine dining toward delicate vegetable-focused compositions; spills of light, colorful juices; and handmade ceramics.AdvertisementHer aesthetic is full of old-fashioned references; of whole animals or big, fatty cuts on the bone; and of sauces — rich, sticky, reinforced sauces that Escoffier might recognize. Her dishes are served with grace and gusto, often in immense portions, on vintage silver and crystal that she picks out at flea markets in London.“What we do at the Beatrice is not for everyone, and I’m 100 percent O.K. with that,” she said. She occasionally posts photographs on Instagram in which she’s gnawing the meat off bones (which she encourages her diners to do, too) or relaxing with a leftover venison pie from the restaurant, on the unmade bed of her Upper West Side apartment. The images are an extension of Ms. Mar’s brand — joyful celebrations of style and appetite.Ms. Mar, like many chefs, found early artistic inspiration in Marco Pierre White’s 1990 cookbook, “White Heat” but doesn’t seek to emulate his famously harsh school of management. As reports of abuse and sexual harassment in the restaurant business continue to break, Ms. Mar provides an obvious reminder: It is possible — it has always been possible — for a chef to pursue excellence without creating a toxic environment.(On Tuesday, after this article was published, a former bartender at the restaurant filed suit in New York alleging wage theft by Ms. Mar and her company, Butcher’s Block Hospitality. Reached on Wednesday afternoon, Ms. Mar said her restaurant did everything by the book.)“The thing that really struck me the first time I ate there was how, the whole time, the staff was talking about how much they loved her,” said Kat Kinsman, a senior editor at the website Extra Crispy and the founder of Chefs with Issues, an online mental health resource for restaurant workers. Ms. Kinsman described the dinner as “a savagely beautiful way of eating.”To achieve an effect of effortlessness, Ms. Mar puts in constant, meticulous work behind the scenes. She has set a standard for acceptable parsley leaves (dainty, feathery soft). And once a month, she puts on a heavy coat to treasure-hunt in the freezing meat lockers at Pat LaFrieda’s New Jersey warehouse, picking out her favorite cuts of beef (hulking, marbled with fat).During the dinner rush, as the printers spat more tickets full of orders, Ms. Mar directed the frenetic kitchen with a composed intensity. She pressed a long needle into a lobe of foie gras, then to her lip, to check its temperature. She inspected every open oyster on its way to the dining room.AdvertisementWas the adductor muscle completely unattached? Was the mantle neatly in place? Was there a rogue piece of shell hiding somewhere, anywhere, inside? On one occasion, yes — a fragment, no longer than an eyelash, which she immediately fished out.“Mr. de la Rosa,” she said to a server, holding up the shard on her fingertip, “Would you like to take this downstairs and show it to them?”Ms. Mar’s earliest cooking jobs were at Diner and Marlow & Sons in Brooklyn. She helped open Reynard, where she learned to butcher, then became a sous-chef at the Spotted Pig (where the owner, Ken Friedman, has been accused of sexual harassment by several current and former employees).Her aim, she says, is to provide her team with the training, support and guidance she couldn’t always find for herself as a young cook. For restaurant culture to shift in a meaningful way, Ms. Mar believes it is just as vital for her to mentor men as women.“We need to focus on bringing the next generation up,” said Ms. Mar, who refers to her staff, half-jokingly, as her kids. “Because what really matters is where my cooks are in 10 years, and who they’re mentoring in 10 years.”Ms. Mar sometimes uses honorifics — Mr. and Ms., ladies and gentlemen — to address her team, with the archaic formality of a professor. She and her managers also carve out time each day to discuss an informal curriculum of books, films and restaurant reviews, as well as techniques and inspirational quotations, with the entire staff.On a recent evening, they talked about “Jiro Dreams of Sushi,” the 2011 documentary about the Japanese chef Jiro Ono, marveling at his craftsmanship.Afterward, Ms. Mar met with her wine consultant, Nathan Wooden, to test dishes under development. The staff seated her, as if she were a guest, and Ms. Mar took notes on the back of her menu, writing down questions and ways to improve not only on flavors and presentations, but also on the introductory monologue a server gives to each table (which she determined to be a smidgen too long).Just a few weeks earlier, she had tapped a 19-year-old server, Emma Arango, to train as a chef de salon, adding tableside service to her responsibilities. Tonight Ms. Arango was in a black suit, shaving truffles over hamburgers, flambéing whole ducks, carving lamb.Advertisement“Look at her go,” Ms. Mar said with pride. “She’s going to run one of my restaurants one day.”Ms. Mar had asked the kitchen to plate two versions of a langoustine cocktail she was fine-tuning — one with the sharp shell still on, the other ready to eat.“The problem is, do most people want to go through all this?” Ms. Mar asked, cracking open a shell-on one with her hands, with ease, dipping the meat in butter, and then tipping it back for a taste of the brains. No, she decided, and went with the version that would require more work in the kitchen, but less in the dining room.The langoustine had been developed, like all new dishes, through a series of weekly workshops that Ms. Mar runs with her sous-chef, Nicole Averkiou, and head chef, Ed Szymanski.In the earliest stages of a new dish, Ms. Mar draws out a word web in Sharpie, on printer paper, throwing words out, circling them, squashing them together in different sequences, discussing all the possible variations out loud.At the center of a blank page, she wrote: Hare. This dish, she said, was inspired by Madame de Pompadour, one of Louis XV’s mistresses, whom she had been reading about recently.“What else do we want? Truffles. Smoke. Chocolate.”“Red things,” Mr. Szymanski said. “All things red.”Advertisement“Cherries?” she asked.Ms. Mar was born in Seattle, where her family bought cherries grown in Eastern Washington from the stands on Beacon Avenue. As a girl, she would sit in the back seat of the car, spitting pits out of the window.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I still look for that meaty texture,” she said. “And the ones from Yakima, when you bite into them, they’re almost steaklike. The skins are snappy, like sausage casing.”Her paternal grandparents had come from China, and their experience was shaped by the racist immigration laws of the early 20th century, including the Chinese Exclusion Act. When they died, Ms. Mar’s father was one of 10 children left orphaned. Raised by his siblings, he grew up in poverty.“My aunt used to send my dad to the back doors of restaurants in Chinatown to ask for scraps to eat,” Ms. Mar recalled.By the time Ms. Mar was a child, growing up in south Seattle, her father, a dentist, was cooking at home with generosity and devotion: T-bone steaks during the week, smoked ducks at Christmastime, and on the weekends, braised pork shoulders in milk — a recipe she has adapted for the restaurant.Her aunt Ruby Chow opened her namesake restaurant in Seattle in 1948, and became a well-known restaurateur. But Ms. Mar, who dropped out of college, worked in commercial real estate in Los Angeles for nearly a decade before considering a career in restaurants. Her business partner at the Beatrice Inn, Melissa Merrill Keary, is also her cousin, and they employ several other family members.In a quiet moment downstairs, Ms. Mar set a 28-pound rack of beef on the counter with a thud, and cut it loose from a net of twine. For five months now, she had been soaking the meat in whiskey, drawing out the aging as thrill-seeking butchers did in the 19th century.The beef was beautiful, but unconventionally so, speckled all over with a splendid, powdery mold. Another variety bloomed in the curves of its bones, flossy and sheer and caramel-colored.Ms. Mar cut it open and shaved a few pieces of the meat inside. Raw, unseasoned, the slivers were mouthwatering and faintly alcoholic, like a ripe, washed-rind cheese.Advertisement“This one’s ready,” she said, signaling to Ms. Averkiou.This meat, the most expensive served at the restaurant, would sell at $14 an ounce (with some steaks weighing in around 35 ounces, and others more). Though critics have questioned some of the high prices at the Beatrice Inn, Ms. Mar serves dishes in a wide range of prices, and believes that her food is worth it.“This is my favorite muscle on the entire cow,” she said, pointing to a spinalis dorsi, or rib-eye cap, crowned with fat. “Look at all of that insane marbling, look at the short plate! This, this, is going to be a very nice steak.”After dinner service, at 1:30 in the morning, Ms. Mar and her cooks were done for the night, but they didn’t leave. Instead, they gathered in the back dining room and took turns discussing what they wanted to improve on, and what they got right — with immediate feedback from Ms. Mar.“I need to not shut down when I make a mistake,” said Duncan Burgin, who had to return a lobe of foie gras to the heat when Ms. Mar noted that it was slightly underdone.“I’m working on getting faster,” said Kevin Huffman, the newest cook in the kitchen, fresh out of culinary school.“You’re definitely picking up speed,” Ms. Mar agreed. “At the beginning on a new station, you always work on getting it perfect, and then you work on getting faster. Awesome. Who’s next?”Ms. Mar asked her cooks to share notes on their favorite chefs of the moment, and the conversation was easy and earnest. Ms. Mar went last.“So she wasn’t exactly a chef, but I chose Julia Child,” she said.“I knew it!” Diana Lee, another cook, shouted. “I knew it!”Advertisement“Her boeuf bourgignon was the first braise I ever mastered,” said Ms. Mar, who had watched Child on television and cooked from her books as a teenager, with her father, long before she was on the lookout for Michelin inspectors in her own dining room.“It’s a reminder this year, as we chase stars and awards, and we keep on pushing, we don’t lose sight of who we are.”Recipe: Venison and Trotter PieFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misstated the weight of the steaks aged in whiskey at the Beatrice Inn. They are 35 ounces, not 350 ounces, and up.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Wanted: Carnivores.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN and HARI KUMARJAN. 6, 2018
SURAT, India — The immense popularity of Narendra Modi, India’s most dynamic prime minister in decades, has always rested on two legs: Hindu nationalism and his tantalizing promises to build on the country’s go-go economy.That second leg is now looking a little shaky.In the last two years, India’s consumer confidence has plummeted, construction has slowed, the fixed investment rate has fallen, many factories have shut down and unemployment has gone up.Fingers are pointing at Mr. Modi. Just about all economists agree that two of the prime minister’s biggest policy gambles — abruptly voiding most of the nation’s currency and then, less than a year later, imposing a sweeping new sales tax — have slowed India’s meteoric growth.“Things have been worsening, worsening, worsening,” said Himanshu, an economics professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, who uses only one name.AdvertisementStill, the economy here is far from failing. The stock market continues to soar, major rail, road and port projects are unfolding across the country, and foreign investors poured $25.4 billion into India from April to September, up 17 percent from the period in 2016.AdvertisementThe government on Friday predicted that the country’s gross domestic product would grow by 6.5 percent in the 2017-18 financial year. While that is the lowest number the country has seen in four years, India’s economy is one that most countries would love to have.But it does not feel that way to the huge number of Indians negatively affected by Mr. Modi’s policies, and the grumbles are growing. So are social tensions, especially those that divide Hindus from Muslims, and upper caste from lower caste. The fear is that Mr. Modi is already beginning to lean more heavily on that first leg of his, Hindu nationalism, now that his economic strategy is losing some of its sheen.With 1.3 billion people, India is the world’s most populous democracy. In 10 years, economic forecasters predict that India’s economy will climb to third-largest in the world, behind only the United States and China. What happens here matters, and domestically, confidence is strained.Even in Gujarat, the state considered the strongest of Mr. Modi’s strongholds, where people have been cheering his rise for the past 20 years and line up in dusty fields by the thousands just to catch a glimpse of his saffron scarf and groomed white beard, many feel betrayed.The output from the textile industry, a huge employer here and once a healthy exporter, has been cut nearly in half, prompting layoffs and despair.In many of the industrial areas, the happiest merchants are the merchants of scrap, who make their rounds in lurching trucks, scooping up looms, steel spools and other underused machinery for pennies on the dollar.In December, in an election that the entire country was watching because it was seen as a referendum on Mr. Modi’s governance, Gujarati voters elected a new State Assembly. Mr. Modi’s party maintained its majority but lost 16 seats.AdvertisementThe message was clear: Mr. Modi’s party was still No. 1, but the man himself was no longer bulletproof.“Modi hurt our business, and we want to show him that we can hurt him, too,” said Manish Patel, whose once clackety cloth factory is now completely empty, another Gujarati business that has gone under.Mr. Patel complained that under Mr. Modi, “It was like we were in first class and now we’ve been put in 10th class.”So for the first time in his life, Mr. Patel voted for the Indian National Congress, the leading opposition party, not for the Bharatiya Janata Party of Mr. Modi.Here in Surat, a Gujarati metropolis with hundreds of years of storied mercantile history, Mr. Modi’s currency policy hit like a sledgehammer. It was November 2016, and when Mr. Modi abruptly announced that large denomination rupee notes were invalid and being replaced with new currency, panic erupted.Manish Patel and his older brother, Dilip, who run the family’s cloth business, found themselves scurrying into line at the bank and waiting hours each day, trying to get money.It was never enough, and when the brothers could not pay their loom operators, many walked off. Hundreds of factories had the same problem. The Surat textile traders association said production in this area dropped to 25 million meters a day now from 40 million meters two years ago.It’s hard to overstate how central cash is to Gujarat, and India in general. Most laborers, whether they operate looms, drive trucks, wash clothes or haul bricks, are paid in stacks of soft rupee notes, Mahatma Gandhi’s face on each one.AdvertisementEven large real estate deals, say for a home that costs the equivalent of $500,000 or $600,000, will be done partly in blocks of rupees, to keep profits off the books.This was what motivated Mr. Modi, who has made fighting corruption a big plank in his platform. He said that by making people turn in old bank notes, he would capture billions of rupees of so-called black money.It has never been made clear how much black money he actually captured, and perhaps he thought he could get away with the enormous disruption because India’s economy had been doing so well. It expanded at more than 8 percent annually between 2005 and 2009 and more than 7 percent between 2010 and 2014.But his timing seems to have been bad.Unlike many of the other big economies that turn on exports — such as China’s, Japan’s or Germany’s — India is not nearly as industrialized.Mr. Modi has vowed to change this, launching a Make in India campaign to attract foreign investors. But analysts say that India’s labor laws are still too restrictive, imposing all kinds of red tape on factories of more than 100 workers, which discourages businesses from thinking big. “A manufacturing revolution is nowhere in sight,” one commentator recently said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.India’s economy remains substantially influenced by domestic rural demand. And back-to-back droughts in 2014 and 2015 ruined millions of farmers, slowing down overall growth.Then in July 2017, before people had a chance to recover from the currency chaos — which had also hampered consumption, because many Indians simply didn’t have any spare cash in their pockets — Mr. Modi moved ahead on another front: the new goods and services tax, or G.S.T.It was the most sweeping tax overhaul India had ever tried, and probably overdue. But many economists and business people questioned Mr. Modi’s timing on this as well.Suddenly, with the economy softening, all but the smallest businesses had to file dozens of returns each year, online, paying taxes on everything from yarn to mixed nuts, often at confusing rates.Business owners like the Patels, who had run their factory off a calculator and a paper pad, said they had no idea how to file.Advertisement“You need a computer; you need to buy online time; you need to hire someone who knows how to do it,” Manish Patel lamented. “All this costs money.”Many small businesses began to suffer from something they did not understand.“G.S.T., G.S.T., what is this G.S.T.?” said Bharat Bhai Kavad, who works out of his house in Surat with his wife and daughter sewing lace on garments for a big textile company. “I didn’t know at first what this G.S.T. was, and now it’s come from Delhi to Gujarat to Surat to my house.”Because the Kavad family’s lace work is unregistered and informal — they get paid a few rupees for each lace they attach — they cannot produce the proper receipts bigger companies need to comply with new tax rules. The Kavads’ earnings have been cut in half.This is one point that many people here make: The informal economy feeds the formal; the two are inextricably linked.“The informal sector is a very important part of the economy, a bridge, a foundation of the economy,” said Mr. Himanshu, the economics professor. “And then you attack them?”Politics are shaped by expectation, and many Indians said they expected more from Mr. Modi. About one million Indians enter the work force every month, and job creation is one of the country’s most urgent political priorities. Mr. Modi has come nowhere near his promise of creating 10 million jobs a year.The unemployment rate was 5 percent, the worst in five years, in 2015-16. Some studies show that at best, a few hundred thousand jobs have been created each year under Mr. Modi in major industries such as textiles, transportation and information technology, though this excludes the informal sector, where millions of Indians traditionally work.AdvertisementIndia’s economy still has a lot going for it: It is already huge, and still growing relatively fast. It has an educated work force; a young, working-age population; and a public that craves new technology. Facebook has 217 million monthly active users in India, second only to the United States.Economic growth is projected to be higher next year, and Mr. Modi’s supporters say that as India’s economy matures, some sort of slowdown was inevitable. And it is not as if his base has fragmented.For every Gujarati business owner who wants to send Mr. Modi an angry message, many others are still with him. This was the area where Mr. Modi built his commanding brand as the state’s top politician for 13 years before becoming prime minister in 2014, and where he attracted heavy manufacturing and investment.But for many people here, politics and economics are not connected at the hip. Kailash Dhoot, a textile exporter, said that Mr. Modi’s recent policies had wounded his business but that Mr. Modi’s party was still his first choice.When asked why, Mr. Dhoot was quick, and curt, with an answer. “Hindutva,” he said. And he closed his mouth firmly, signaling the discussion was over.Hindutva is a philosophy adopted by Mr. Modi’s party that emphasizes Hindu supremacy.Since Mr. Modi came to power, so-called cow vigilantes have brutalized or killed dozens of people, many Muslim, for slaughtering or trading cows, a venerated animal in the Hindu religion. The hate crimes seem to never end.Analysts fear that if the economy continues to come up short of expectations, Mr. Modi might turn more to what are termed “communal issues,” subjects that divide communities based on religion or caste.“If economic maneuverability is limited,” said Ashutosh Varshney, a political-science professor and India specialist at Brown University, “then the communal card, the Hindu-Muslim card, is a massive political temptation.”Advertisement“That’s what Mr. Modi did in Gujarat,’’ Professor Varshney said. “He twisted every available political possibility into a Hindu-Muslim question.”One example was Mr. Modi’s accusations that opposition leaders were in cahoots with Pakistan, India’s rival and a nation with a strong Islamic identity, after some opposition leaders met some Pakistani officials at a recent social event.Many people saw those claims as a low blow to stir up Gujarati Hindus, who make up the state’s vast majority.“It didn’t used to be like this,” said Hanif Belim, a taxi driver in Gujarat. But nowadays, he added, “politicians divide the public and sit on the side and watch them fight.”Follow Jeffrey Gettleman and Hari Kumar on Twitter: @gettleman and @HariNYT.Vindu Goel and Ayesha Venkataraman contributed reporting from Mumbai, and Suhasini Raj from Morbi, India.A version of this article appears in print on January 7, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Rising Anxiety in India Is Piercing Modi’s Aura of Invulnerability.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.In a wide-ranging conversation, the stars discuss President Trump, the fallout from the Harvey Weinstein case and why they hadn’t worked together until “The Post.”By CARA BUCKLEYJAN. 3, 2018
“The Post” tells of the tense days leading up to The Washington Post’s decision in 1971 to publish the Pentagon Papers, the government’s secret history of the Vietnam War. The New York Times had broken the story but was prohibited from running the full series after the Nixon administration won a court injunction. That’s when The Post took up the story.Directed by Steven Spielberg, the film stars Meryl Streep as Katharine Graham, The Post’s publisher, who came into her own by defying President Richard M. Nixon’s order, and Tom Hanks as the legendary editor Ben Bradlee. It is also the first time these three Hollywood icons have all worked together. I spoke with Mr. Hanks and Ms. Streep about the film’s uncanny parallels with today, their thoughts on the Weinstein moment, and what it’s like following in the footsteps of what is arguably the best newspaper movie ever, “All the President’s Men,” starring Jason Robards as Bradlee. Our meeting took place before Ms. Streep was nominated for an Oscar for her turn in the movie, which also picked up a best-picture nod. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.Did either of you go in thinking, “Well, the definitive Washington Post movie was made. Are we up against that?”STREEP I didn’t think the definitive Washington Post movie was made. It was a great movie, but it neglected to mention Katharine Graham, and her central position. She was glancingly there.AdvertisementHANKS There was a reference to her.(To Mr. Hanks) Especially you stepping into a role that was iconically done. How do you go about that differently?HANKS I viewed this as the story of the week that Katharine Graham became Katharine Graham. In which case I had the juicy aspect of playing the only ally she had. You know, philosophically, the relationship that they had was based on so much stuff. You might as well just call it love, respect, empathy, understanding, professional moxie.STREEP Mutual admiration.HANKS It’s also cantankerous, like when he said, “Katharine, get your finger out of my eye.” From the moment we both read it and said, “Oh, I’m not going to let this pass me by,” it grew into the specifics of what the Pentagon Papers were. It actually bolstered the story of the week that Katharine Graham became Katharine Graham. She was filled with such self-doubt. And it dogged her her whole life. She felt like she was in a holding pattern until her son came of age and became the publisher. Where do you think she found that mettle to say, “Let’s do it, let’s publish”? Her advisers were against it.AdvertisementSTREEP Where do the hardest things come from? They come from deep. Usually they come from your parents. Her father was a formidable figure, and her mother was even more terrifyingly important in her life. Absent, but the absence was important. Katharine Graham was someone who was a product of her time. It was the whole culture that undermined all women, especially women that should’ve had the most agency of all — highly educated wealthy women who had every opportunity to step into important places in life but they sat back. The more I read about her, the more I thought, “Who do you think you are trying to be — Katharine Graham?” She was so thoughtful, deep-principled and wily in that way that women had to be when they were only the second tier of a society.HANKS There was that moment where the men stayed and talked about policy and current events, and the women went in the other room.I didn’t know that still happened in the early ’70s.STREEP You have to remember that I was in graduate school when I was first allowed to get a credit card without a male family member signing for me.The film is a model for men and women working together respectfully, which, who would have thunk it, is what we need, that good example.STREEP Yeah, but just think if I had been the managing editor of The Washington Post and you had been my publisher. If I said, “Get your finger out of my eye.”HANKS You would’ve been a bitch.STREEP I would’ve been fired. And that’s what I mean about the imbalance. There’s a tolerance for a certain kind of thing. I think women also have to step up and get able to do that.There are echoes of Nixon in what we’re hearing now from the White House, with the difference being that the person in the White House is saying that real reporting is “fake news.” Was it gratifying to do a movie set when people actually believed things?HANKS The assault on the First Amendment under the Nixon administration was old school, a D-Day version of “Let’s stop this story because it’s national security and they’re traitors if they print it. Because if they dare print it, they’ll find out that we lied. And if they know that we’re lying, we can’t do our jobs.” What’s happening now is this guerrilla war that is going on against the First Amendment. This idea now that has actually been verbalized by various people high up in the current administration, that there is such a thing as [an] “alternative fact.” It gives validation to what is patently false, that the purveyors know is a lie, and worse, know that it is completely unconfirmed and is scurrilous. And in that realm comes some degree of the same message: “Don’t let them find out the truth, because if so we can’t stay in power.” All of this stuff that was going on was not lost on any of us.AdvertisementHow do we rebuild faith in these institutions?HANKS Well, I think it’s a marathon. It’s the long haul. Eventually I think the truth does come out.At The New York Times, colleagues feel that this is a New York Times story. They broke the Pentagon Papers. What are your thoughts on that?HANKS I read an article before we even started shooting, which was “How dare they do this movie about The Washington Post when it was us?” We’re all reacting off what The New York Times did. They did not have Katharine Graham. They did not have that side of it. The Times gets all the props in the world. Have [your colleagues] rest assured that they get props.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I’ve got to shift conversation to the news these days, sexual harassment. One thing that struck me after the Harvey Weinstein accusations broke was people were saying, “What is Meryl going to say?” They were waiting for you.STREEP I know. I found out about this on a Friday and went home deep into my own life. And then somebody told me that on “Morning Joe” they were screaming that I haven’t responded yet. I don’t have a Twitter thing or – handle, whatever. And I don’t have Facebook. I really had to think. Because it really underlined my own sense of cluelessness, and also how evil, deeply evil, and duplicitous, a person he was, yet such a champion of really great work.You make movies. You think you know everything about everybody. So much gossip. You don’t know anything. People are so inscrutable on a certain level. And it’s a shock. Some of my favorite people have been brought down by this, and he’s not one of them.What do you make of the fact, though, that people are waiting for you to speak?STREEP I don’t want to hear about the silence of me. I want to hear about the silence of Melania Trump. I want to hear from her. She has so much that’s valuable to say. And so does Ivanka. I want her to speak now.What have you experienced over the years and how have you dealt with it?STREEP I have experienced things, mostly when I was young and pretty. Nobody comes on to me [now]. So I wouldn’t have had that more recently. But back in the day, when everybody was doing cocaine, there was a lot of [expletive] behavior that was inexcusable. But now that people are older, and more sober, there has to be forgiveness, and that’s the way I feel about it.Do you want to go into specifics?STREEP No, no, I don’t. I mean, I was really beaten up, but I don’t want to ruin somebody’s mature life. I just don’t. I do think if the world is going to go on, we have to find out a way to work together, and know that it’s better for men if they respect us deeply as equals.AdvertisementGoing back to your early days, people are wondering if you had problems with Dustin Hoffman, and your thoughts on the talk around him, to put it euphemistically. Did he slap you?STREEP That was when we were making “Kramer vs. Kramer.” This is tricky because when you’re an actor, you’re in a scene, you have to feel free. I’m sure that I have inadvertently hurt people in physical scenes. But there’s a certain amount of forgiveness in that. But this was my first movie, and it was my first take in my first movie, and he just slapped me. And you see it in the movie. It was overstepping. But I think those things are being corrected in this moment. And they’re not politically corrected; they’re fixed. They will be fixed, because people won’t accept it anymore. So that’s a good thing.(To Hanks) What do you make of this #MeToo moment?HANKS I know that I have participated in crude humor worthy of a baseball locker room on a set. And that’s bad words, and a degree of stupid sexuality in the confines of the circus. I was asked by Diane Rehm on NPR if I had ever been aware of this type of sexual predatory behavior. And I said: “Well, it’s easy to say no. I mean, I’m oblivious to an awful lot of this. But I’d be a fool to say that it’s never happened on some job I’ve had, because I’m not in every office.” But four days after the Harvey Weinstein stuff broke someone wrote, “Who says it’s too late to learn new behavior?” There’s no reason not to view this as a reckoning that is going to make us a better society.STREEP There shouldn’t be the idea of a locker room. The payload is unloaded on women, because that’s the last group it’s kind of O.K. to demean, degrade.Did either of you feel — “complicit” is a tough word, but that you might have put on blinders?STREEP Well, honestly for me in terms of Harvey, I really didn’t know. I did think he was having girlfriends. But when I heard rumors about actresses, I thought that that was a way of denigrating the actress and her ability to get the job. That really raised my hackles. I didn’t know that he was in any way abusing people. He never asked me to a hotel room. I don’t know how his life was conducted without people intimately knowing about it.HANKS I would claim that I was never knowingly complicit, but that doesn’t mean I wasn’t oblivious. You know what’s oddly liberating about this is that we would go off and make movies that have absolutely nothing to do with any of these topics, but journalists bring them up, you know?STREEP But that’s because we have the pulpit. You don’t know that when you go to drama school. You take out those loans, you think, “Well, maybe I can pay those back.” You don’t think somebody’s going to ask you to make a speech in front of the Committee to Protect Journalists.HANKS Or whether Social Security should be privatized. Do you think it’s out of place?HANKS No, not on this movie.AdvertisementSTREEP It’s great to be asked to step up because you know what, everybody should.HANKS And this movie — this is what this entire film deals with. We made this movie about 1971, but it really is about 2017. There’s no reason not to get involved in what this overpowering discussion is about.You’re both beheld as icons. The Washington Post review said, “Icons playing icons.”HANKS Oh dear.STREEP Uh oh.HANKS Oh my.STREEP Good thing we don’t read the reviews.HANKS Here comes hubris right up the track to take us down.But you’d never worked together before. Had it come close?HANKS I will say that I’ve never been actively involved in something that, quite frankly, warranted Meryl to be in the movie.A version of this article appears in print on January 7, 2018, on Page AR18 of the New York edition with the headline: Ben and Katharine and Tom and Meryl.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »From a penthouse on Central Park, Guo Wengui has exposed a phenomenal web of corruption in China’s ruling elite — if, that is, he’s telling the truth.By LAUREN HILGERSJAN. 10, 2018
On a recent Saturday afternoon, an exiled Chinese billionaire named Guo Wengui was holding forth in his New York apartment, sipping tea while an assistant lingered quietly just outside the door, slipping in occasionally to keep Guo’s glass cup perfectly full. The tycoon’s Twitter account had been suspended again — it was the fifth or sixth time, by Guo’s count — and he blamed the Communist Party of China. “It’s not normal!” he said, about this cycle of blocking and reinstating. “But it doesn’t matter. I don’t need anyone.”Guo’s New York apartment is a 9,000-square-foot residence along Central Park that he bought for $67.5 million in 2015. He sat in a Victorian-style chair, his back to a pair of west-facing windows, the sunset casting craggy shadows. A black-and-white painting of an angry-looking monkey hung on the wall to Guo’s right, a hat bearing a star-and-wreath Soviet insignia on its head and a cigarette hanging from its lips. Guo had arrived dressed entirely in black, except for two silver stripes on each lapel. “I have the best houses,” he told me. Guo had picked his apartment for its location, its three sprawling balconies and the meticulously tiled floor in the entryway. He has the best apartment in London, he said; the biggest apartment in Hong Kong. His yacht is docked along the Hudson River. He is comfortable and, anyway, Guo likes to say that as a Buddhist, he wants for nothing. If it were down to his own needs alone, he would have kept his profile low. But he has a higher purpose. He is going to save China.Guo pitches himself as a former insider, a man who knows the secrets of a government that tightly controls the flow of information. A man who, in 2017, did the unthinkable — tearing open the veil of secrecy that has long surrounded China’s political elite, lobbing accusations about corruption, extramarital affairs and murder plots over Facebook and Twitter. His YouTube videos and tweets have drawn in farmers and shopkeepers, democracy activists, writers and businesspeople. In China, people have been arrested for chatting about Guo online and distributing T-shirts with one of his slogans printed on the front (“This is only the beginning!”). In New York, Guo has split a community of dissidents and democracy activists down the middle. Some support him. Others believe that Guo himself is a government spy.Nothing in Guo’s story is as straightforward as he would like it to seem. Guo is 47 years old, or 48, or 49. Although he has captured the attention of publications like The Guardian, The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, the articles that have run about him have offered only hazy details about his life. This is because his biography varies so widely from one source to the next. Maybe his name isn’t even Guo Wengui. It could be Guo Wugui. There are reports that in Hong Kong, Guo occasionally goes by the name Guo Haoyun.AdvertisementWhen pressed, Guo claims a record of unblemished integrity in his business dealings, both in real estate and in finance (when it comes to his personal life, he strikes a more careful balance between virility and dedication to his family). “I never took a square of land from the government,” he said. “I didn’t take a penny of investment from the banks.” If you accept favors, he said, people will try to exploit your weaknesses. So, Guo claims, he opted to take no money and have no weaknesses.Yet when Guo left China in 2014, he fled in anticipation of corruption charges. A former business partner had been detained just days before, and his political patron would be detained a few days afterward. In 2015, articles about corruption in Guo’s business dealings — stories that he claims are largely fabrications — started appearing in the media. He was accused of defrauding business partners and colluding with corrupt officials. To hear Guo tell it, his political and business opponents used a national corruption campaign as a cover for a personal vendetta.Whatever prompted Guo to take action, his campaign came during an important year for China’s president, Xi Jinping. In October, the Communist Party of China (C.P.C.) convened its 19th National Congress, a twice-a-decade event that sets the contours of political power for the next five years. The country is in the throes of a far-reaching anti-corruption campaign, and Xi has overseen a crackdown on dissidents and human rights activists while increasing investment in censorship and surveillance. Guo has become a thorn in China’s side at the precise moment the country is working to expand its influence, and its censorship program, overseas.AdvertisementIn November 2017, the Tiananmen Square activist Wang Dan warned of the growing influence of the C.P.C. on university campuses in the United States. His own attempts to hold “China salons” on college campuses had largely been blocked by the Chinese Students and Scholars Association — a group with ties to China’s government. Around the same time, the academic publisher Springer Nature agreed to block access to hundreds of articles on its Chinese site, cutting off access to articles on Tibet, Taiwan and China’s political elite. Reports emerged last year that China is spending hundreds of thousands of dollars quarterly to purchase ads on Facebook (a service that is blocked within China’s borders). In Australia, concerns about China’s growing influence led to a ban on foreign political donations.“That’s why I’m telling the United States they should really be careful,” Guo said. China’s influence is spreading, he says, and he believes his own efforts to change China will have global consequences. “Like in an American movie,” he told me with unflinching self-confidence. “In the last minutes, we will save the world.”Propaganda, censorship and rewritten histories have long been specialties of authoritarian nations. The aim, as famously explained by the political philosopher Hannah Arendt, is to confuse: to breed a combination of cynicism and gullibility. Propaganda can leave people in doubt of all news sources, suspicious of their neighbors, picking and choosing at random what pieces of information to believe. Without a political reality grounded in facts, people are left unmoored, building their world on whatever foundation — imaginary or otherwise — they might choose.The tight grip that the C.P.C. keeps on information may be nothing new, but China’s leadership has been working hard to update the way it censors and broadcasts. People in China distrusted print and television media long before U.S. politicians started throwing around accusations of “fake news.” In 2016, President Xi Jinping was explicit about the arrangement, informing the country’s media that it should be “surnamed Party.” Likewise, while the West has only recently begun to grapple with government-sponsored commenters on social media, China’s government has been manipulating online conversations for over a decade.“They create all kinds of confusion,” said Ha Jin, the National Book Award-winning American novelist born in China’s Liaoning Province, and a vocal supporter of Guo. “You don’t know what information you have and whether it’s right. You don’t know who are the informers, who are the agents.”Online, the C.P.C. controls information by blocking websites, monitoring content and employing an army of commenters widely known as the 50-cent party. The name was used as early as 2004, when a municipal government in Hunan Province hired a number of online commenters, offering a stipend of 600 yuan, or about $72. Since then, the 50-cent party has spread. In 2016, researchers from Harvard, Stanford and the University of California-San Diego estimated that these paid commenters generated 448 million social-media comments annually. The posts, researchers found, were conflict averse, cheerleading for the party rather than defending it. Their aim seemed not to be engaging in argument but rather distracting the public and redirecting attention from sensitive issues.In early 2017, Guo issued his first salvos against China’s ruling elite through more traditional channels. He contacted a handful of Chinese-language media outlets based in the United States. He gave interviews to the Long Island-based publication Mingjing News and to Voice of America — a live event that was cut short by producers, leading to speculation that V.O.A. had caved to Chinese government pressure. He called The New York Times and spoke with reporters at The Wall Street Journal. It did not take long, however, before the billionaire turned to direct appeals through social media. The accusations he made were explosive — he attacked Wang Qishan, Xi Jinping’s corruption czar, and Meng Jianzhu, the secretary of the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission, another prominent player in Xi’s anti-corruption campaign. He talked about Wang’s mistresses, his business interests and conflicts within the party.In one YouTube video, released on Aug. 4, Guo addressed the tension between Wang and another anti-corruption official named Zhang Huawei. He recounted having dinner with Zhang when “he called Wang Qishan’s secretary and gave him orders,” Guo said. “Think about what Wang had to suffer in silence back then. They slept with the same women, and Zhang knew everything about Wang.” In addition, Guo said, Zhang knew about Wang’s corrupt business dealings. When Zhang Huawei was placed under official investigation in April, Guo claimed, it was a result of a grudge.Advertisement“Everyone in China is a slave,” Guo said in the video. “With the exception of the nobility.”To those who believe Guo’s claims, they expose a depth of corruption that would surprise even the most jaded opponent of the C.P.C. “The corruption is on such a scale,” Ha Jin said. “Who could imagine that the czar of anti-corruption would himself be corrupt? It is extraordinary.”Retaliation came quickly. A barrage of counteraccusations began pouring out against Guo, most published in the pages of the state-run Chinese media. Warrants for his arrest were issued on charges of corruption, bribery and even rape. China asked Interpol to issue a red notice calling for Guo’s arrest and extradition. He was running out of money, it was reported. In September, Guo recorded a video during which he received what he said was a phone call from his fifth brother: Two of Guo’s former employees had been detained, and their family members were threatening suicide. “My Twitter followers are so important they are like heaven to me,” Guo said. But, he declared, he could not ignore the well-being of his family and his employees. “I cannot finish the show as I had planned,” he said. Later, Guo told his followers in a video that he was planning to divorce his wife, in order to shield her from the backlash against him.Guo quickly resumed posting videos and encouraging his followers. His accusations continued to accumulate throughout 2017, and he recently started his own YouTube channel (and has yet to divorce his wife). His YouTube videos are released according to no particular schedule, sometimes several days in a row, some weeks not at all. He has developed a casual, talkative style. In some, Guo is running on a treadmill or still sweating after a workout. He has demonstrated cooking techniques and played with a tiny, fluffy dog, a gift from his daughter. He invites his viewers into a world of luxury and offers them a mix of secrets, gossip and insider knowledge.Wang Qishan, Guo has claimed, is hiding the money he secretly earned in the Hainan-based conglomerate HNA Group, a company with an estimated $35 billion worth of investments in the United States. (HNA Group denies any ties to Wang and is suing Guo.) He accused Wang of carrying on an affair with the actress Fan Bingbing. (Fan is reportedly suing Guo for defamation.) He told stories of petty arguments among officials and claimed that Chinese officials sabotaged Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which disappeared in 2014 en route to Beijing, in order to cover up an organ-harvesting scheme. Most of Guo’s accusations have proved nearly impossible to verify.“This guy is just covered in question marks,” said Minxin Pei, a professor at Claremont McKenna who specializes in Chinese governance.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The questions that cover Guo have posed a problem for both the United States government and the Western journalists who, in trying to write about him, have found themselves buffeted by the currents of propaganda, misinformation and the tight-lipped code of the C.P.C. elite. His claims have also divided a group of exiled dissidents and democracy activists — people who might seem like Guo’s natural allies. For the most part, the democracy activists who flee China have been chased from their country for protesting the government or promoting human rights, not because of corruption charges. They tell stories of personal persecution, not insider tales of bribery, sex and money. And perhaps as a consequence, few exiled activists command as large an audience as Guo. “I will believe him,” Ha Jin said, “until one of his serious accusations is proved to be false.”Pei, the professor, warns not to take any of Guo’s accusations at face value. The reaction from the C.P.C. has been so extreme, however, that Pei believes Guo must know something. “He must mean something to the government,” he said. “They must be really bothered by this billionaire.” In May, Chinese officials visited Guo on visas that did not allow them to conduct official business, causing a confrontation with the F.B.I. A few weeks later, according to The Washington Times, China’s calls for Guo’s extradition led to a White House showdown, during which Jeff Sessions threatened to resign if Guo was sent back to China.Guo has a history of cultivating relationships with the politically influential, and the trend has continued in New York. He famously bought 5,000 copies of a book by Cherie Blair, Tony Blair’s wife. (“It was to give to my employees,” Guo told me. “I often gave my employees books to read.”) Guo has also cultivated a special relationship with Steve Bannon, whom he says he has met with a handful of times, although the two have no financial relationship. Not long after one of their meetings, Bannon appeared on Breitbart Radio and called China “an enemy of incalculable power.”Despite Guo’s high-powered supporters and his army of online followers, one important mark of believability has continued to elude him. Western news organizations have struggled to find evidence that would corroborate Guo’s claims. When his claims appear in print, they are carefully hedged — delivered with none of his signature charm and bombast. “Why do you need more evidence?” Guo complained in his apartment. “I can give them evidence, no problem. But while they’re out spending time investigating, I’m waiting around to get killed!”AdvertisementThe details of Guo’s life may be impossible to verify, but the broad strokes confirm a picture of a man whose fortunes have risen and fallen with the political climate in China. To hear Guo tell it, he was born in Jilin Province, in a mining town where his parents were sent during the Cultural Revolution. “There were foreigners there,” Guo says in a video recorded on what he claims is his birthday. (Guo was born on Feb. 2, or May 10, or sometime in June.) “They had the most advanced machinery. People wore popular clothing.” Guo, as a result, was not ignorant of the world. He was, however, extremely poor. “Sometimes we didn’t even have firewood,” he says. “So we burned the wet twigs from the mountains — the smoke was so thick.” Guo emphasizes this history: He came from hardship. He pulled himself up.The story continues into Guo’s pre-teenage years, when he moved back to his hometown in Shandong Province. He met his wife and married her when he was only 15, she 14. They moved to Heilongjiang, where they started a small manufacturing operation, taking advantage of the early days of China’s economic rise, and then to Henan. Guo got his start in real estate in a city called Zhengzhou, where he founded the Zhengzhou Yuda Property Company and built the tallest building the city had seen so far, the Yuda International Trade Center. According to Guo, he was only 25 when he made this first deal.The string of businesses and properties that Guo developed provide some of the confirmable scaffolding of his life. No one disputes that Guo went on to start both the Beijing Morgan Investment Company and Beijing Zenith Holdings. Morgan Investment was responsible for building a cluster of office towers called the Pangu Plaza, the tallest of which has a wavy top that loosely resembles a dragon, or perhaps a precarious cone of soft-serve ice cream. Guo is in agreement with the Chinese media that in buying the property for Pangu Plaza, he clashed with the deputy mayor of Beijing. The dispute ended when Guo turned in a lengthy sex tape capturing the deputy mayor in bed with his mistress.There are other details in Guo’s biography, however, that vary from one source to the next. Guo says that he never took government loans; Caixin, a Beijing-based publication, quoted “sources close to the matter” in a 2015 article claiming that Guo took out 28 loans totaling 588 million yuan, or about $89 million. Guo, according to Caixin, eventually defaulted. At some point in this story — the timeline varies — Guo became friends with the vice minister of China’s Ministry of State Security, Ma Jian. The M.S.S. is China’s answer to the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. combined. It spies on civilians and foreigners alike, conducting operations domestically and internationally, amassing information on diplomats, businessmen and even the members of the C.P.C. Describing Ma, Guo leans back in his chair and mimes smoking a cigarette. “Ma Jian! He was fat and his skin was tan.” According to Guo, Ma sat like this during their first meeting, listening to Guo’s side of a dispute. Then Ma told him to trust the country. “Trust the law,” he told Guo. “We will treat you fairly.” The older master of spycraft and the young businessman struck up a friendship that would become a cornerstone in Guo’s claims of insider knowledge, and also possibly the reason for the businessman’s downfall in China.Following the construction of Pangu Plaza in Beijing, Guo’s life story becomes increasingly hard to parse. He started a securities business with a man named Li You. After a falling-out, Li was detained by the authorities. Guo’s company accused Li and his company of insider trading. According to the 2015 article in Caixin, Li then penned a letter to the authorities accusing Guo of “wrongdoing.”As this dispute was going on, China’s anti-​corruption operation was building a case against Ma Jian. In Guo’s telling, Ma had long been rumored to be collecting intelligence on China’s leaders. As the anti-corruption campaign gained speed and officials like Wang Qishan gained power, Ma’s well of intelligence started to look like a threat. It was Guo’s relationship with Ma, the tycoon maintains, that made officials nervous. Ma was detained by the authorities in January 2015, shortly after Guo fled the country. Soon after Ma’s detention, accounts began appearing in China’s state-run media claiming that Ma had six Beijing villas, six mistresses and at least two illegitimate sons. In a 2015 article that ran in the party-run newspaper The China Daily, the writer added another detail: “The investigation also found that Ma had acted as an umbrella for the business ventures of Guo Wengui, a tycoon from Henan Province.”In the mix of spies, corrupt business dealings, mistresses and sex scandals, Guo has one more unbelievable story to tell about his past. It is one reason, he says, that he was mentally prepared to confront the leaders of the Communist Party. It happened nearly 29 years ago, in the aftermath of the crackdown on Tiananmen Square. According to Guo, he had donated money to the students protesting in the square, and so a group of local police officers came to find him at his home. An overzealous officer fired off a shot at Guo’s wife — at which point Guo’s younger brother jumped in front of the bullet, suffering a fatal wound. “That was when I started my plan,” he said. “If your brother had been killed in front of your eyes, would you just forget it?” Never mind the fact that it would take 28 years for him to take any public stand against the party that caused his brother’s death. Never mind that the leadership had changed. “I’m not saying everyone in the Communist Party is bad,” he said. “The system is bad. So what I need to oppose is the system.”On an unusually warm Saturday afternoon in Flushing, Queens, a group of around 30 of Guo’s supporters gathered for a barbecue in Kissena Park. They laid out a spread of vegetables and skewers of shrimp and squid. Some children toddled through the crowd, chewing on hot dogs and rolling around an unopened can of Coke. The adults fussed with a loudspeaker and a banner that featured the name that Guo goes by in English, Miles Kwok. “Miles Kwok, NY loves U,” it said, a heart standing in for the word “loves.” “Democracy, Justice, Liberty for China.” Someone else had carried in a life-size cutout of the billionaire.AdvertisementThe revelers decided to hold the event in the park partly for the available grills but also partly because the square in front of Guo’s penthouse had turned dangerous. A few weeks earlier, some older women had been out supporting Guo when a group of Chinese men holding flags and banners showed up. At one point, the men wrapped the women in a protest banner and hit them. The park was a safer option. And the protesters had learned from Guo — it wasn’t a live audience they were hoping for. The group would be filming the protest and posting it on social media. Halfway through, Guo would call in on someone’s cellphone, and the crowd would cheer.Despite this show of support, Guo’s claims have divided China’s exiled dissidents to such an extent that on a single day near the end of September, two dueling meetings of pro-democracy activists were held in New York, one supporting Guo, the other casting doubt on his motivations. (“They are jealous of me,” Guo said of his detractors. “They think: Why is he so handsome? Why are so many people listening to him?”) Some of Guo’s claims are verifiably untrue — he claimed in an interview with Vice that he paid $82 million for his apartment — and others seem comically aggrandized. (Guo says he never wears the same pair of underwear twice.) But the repercussions he is facing are real.In December, Guo’s brother was sentenced to three years and six months in prison for destroying accounting records. The lawsuits filed against Guo for defamation are piling up, and Guo has claimed to be amassing a “war chest” of $150 million to cover his legal expenses. In September, a new set of claims against Guo were made in a 49-page document circulated by a former business rival. For Ha Jin, Guo’s significance runs deeper than his soap-opera tales of scandal and corruption. “The grand propaganda scheme is to suppress and control all the voices,” Jin said. “Now everybody knows that you can create your own voice. You can have your own show. That fact alone is historical.” In the future, Jin predicts, there will be more rebels like Guo. “There is something very primitive about this, realizing that this is a man, a regular citizen who can confront state power.”Ho Pin, the founder of Long Island’s Mingjing News, echoed Jin. Mingjing’s reporters felt that covering Guo was imperative, no matter the haziness of the information. “In China, the political elite that Guo was attacking had platforms of their own,” Ho said. “They have the opportunity, the power and the ability to use all the government’s apparatus to refute and oppose Guo Wengui. So our most important job is to allow Guo Wengui’s insider knowledge reach the fair, open-minded people in China.” Still, people like Pei urge caution when dealing with Guo’s claims. Even Guo’s escape raises questions. Few others have slipped through the net of China’s anti-corruption drive. “How could he get so lucky?” Pei asked. “He must have been tipped off long before.”At the barbecue, a supporter named Ye Rong tucked one of his children under his arm and acknowledged that Guo’s past life is riddled with holes. There was always the possibility that Guo used to be a thug, but Ye didn’t think it mattered. The rules of the conflict had been set by the Communist Party. “You need all kinds of people to oppose the Chinese government,” Ye said. “We need intellectuals; we also need thugs.”Guo, of course, has his own opinions about his legacy. He warned of dark times for Americans and for the world, if he doesn’t succeed in his mission to change China. “I am trying to help,” he told me. “I am not joking with you.” He continued: “I will change China within the next three years. If I don’t change it, I won’t be able to survive.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the name of the province where the Chinese government hired online commenters in 2004. It is Hunan Province, not Henan.Lauren Hilgers’s book “Patriot Number One” will be published in March. She last wrote for the magazine about Hong Kong’s democratic revolution.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page MM26 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: The World According To Guo.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Single and restless on a frigid New Year’s Eve, our writer set out on a New York culture crawl: Cardi B, contra dancing, Bargemusic, a 1990s-themed party and more.By ISAAC OLIVERJAN. 2, 2018
It was a tough year, but at least we got “Big Little Lies” and Tiffany Haddish. Politics appalled a lot of us, men did too, and the Scotch tape holding the New York City subway together popped off. Not to mention, New Yorkers were handed the coldest New Year’s Eve since 1962. “I dare you,” 2017 seemed to be taunting. “Ring me out.”Part of me wanted to ignore the dare. New Year’s, always hard for me, felt increasingly lonely. Most of my friends are married, affianced, or gobbled up by Los Angeles, or veganism. I’m 34. I’m single, and always have been. I’m a terrible dancer. And yet: there’s virtue in stepping into the bracing cold, in shocking the blood awake and feeding the brain something new.After spending last New Year’s crawling across Manhattan, I wanted to set foot in other boroughs — all four of them, in fact. My friend Colin agreed to join. I chose wildly disparate experiences — Cardi B, contra dancing, Vivaldi, an all-night gender-fluid party — to see if 14 hours outside of my comfort zone, in the company of strangers, might crack me open a bit for the year to come.I’m firmly an indoor person, but I thought I’d start off with a little natural splendor. We arrive for one of the Sunday afternoon guided walks of Wave Hill, with its striking views of the New Jersey Palisades.AdvertisementTurns out we are the only people on the tour. It’s 16 degrees. Even Jon Snow would head inside.Our guide Tony takes us by the Wave Hill House. Theodore Roosevelt lived there for a while, as did Mark Twain. Blindingly cold, I see the house as shelter, and whatever cave man DNA my iPhone and homosexuality haven’t overridden now compels me toward it.AdvertisementLater, I consider the European hornbeam tree before me, whose bare branches jut out conically, and an Asian dogwood tree, whose bark reddens in the winter. I’m heartened, seeing things thrive in misery. Trees exfoliate in the winter, Tony tells us, shedding their bark in radical self-care. I imagine them opening a nice shiraz after we’ve left.I’m partial to the opening credits of “Working Girl,” so I figured a ride on the Staten Island Ferry, bound for Manhattan on the eve of a new year, would be particularly stirring. I stare ahead at the financial district skyline, pretending the Carly Simon song is playing and I’ve got Melanie Griffith’s hair. The air feels like daggers, but I manage.My fellow passengers feel differently. Everyone’s bundled and exhausted, dressed for a Sunday commute, not New Year’s revelry. As we pass the Statue of Liberty, foreign tourists pop onto the outer decks for quick photos, their fur-trimmed hoods flapping in the lacerating wind.In the bathroom, a man rests clanking bags of wine on either side of the sink before stepping to the urinals.George Cabon, 48, a street vendor from Staten Island, is on his way to Rockefeller Center with a shopping cart full of party hats and light-up glasses. This is his 10th year out on New Year’s. “It changed after Sept. 11,” he said. “Before that, it was like a dream job — I’m talking $1,500, $1,800 a day. Today, if you make $200, you’re happy.”Jill Montesano, 20, and her boyfriend, Brenden Kranich, 20, are heading to Times Square. “The people, that’s what’s going to get to me,” Mr. Kranich said. “Sometimes it wigs me out not being able to move. It’ll be fun, though, to get to spend it with her.”“He said no more kisses until midnight,” Ms. Montesano said.Billed as “New York’s floating concert hall,” Bargemusic is presenting Vivaldi’s “Four Seasons” and Bach’s “Violin Concerto in A Minor” at its home, a converted coffee barge moored by the Brooklyn Bridge.AdvertisementIn the cozy hull, the seven-member ensemble, led by the violinist Mark Peskanov, tuned onstage in front of windows looking onto the Manhattan skyline. The audience — mostly older, white and N.P.R. tote bag-owning — filed in happily.Two couples laughing it up behind me — Lisa Love and Charlie Mendosa, and Lauren Glant and Michael Gillespie — became friends when their children dated and remained so after they split up. “Our kids used to be involved, and now we are,” Mr. Gillespie said.The ensemble makes a crisp and emotive meal out of the Vivaldi, as the boat rocks in the wake of all the East River booze cruises. Mr. Peskanov plays so hard he breaks a bow string during “Autumn.”I catch the cute bassist glancing at me, and I imagine a Zankel Hall wedding, but he’s probably just wondering why someone’s in a “Little Mermaid” sweatshirt in the front row. “It’s for a ’90s party later,” I want to mouth. “And it’s my roommate’s.”The “Winter” concerto’s my favorite, and I glance at Vivaldi’s sonnets, translated in the program. “Shivering, frozen mid the frosty snow in biting, stinging winds,” he wrote. “This is winter, which nonetheless brings its own delights.”I’ll look for the bassist on Facebook.“Hold hands,” the instructor says.Colin and I hold hands with the people next to us and form a circle of four.“Circle to the left,” she says.We circle to the left.“And stop,” she says. “Get your partner across from you, and you’ll be home.”We’re in the lofty gymnasium at Camp Friendship where Brooklyn Contra, a volunteer-run club, is hosting a New Year’s Eve contra dance. Contra is a social dance, with traces of square, swing and folk, where you’re in weaving, twirling lines and constantly being flung into a new person’s arms.AdvertisementEye contact is key. I’m terrified, but I’m here to push myself.“Find someone experienced to dance with,” the instructor says.A local band called Grand Picnic plays, and Colin is whisked away. “Will you teach me?” I ask a woman in a scarf.“Someone will,” she says, already saddled with a beginner and clearly not wanting to double her burden.I do-si-do with a man named Chris, who, as he spins me, says, “I need more resistance from you.”There’s not really time to think; you just have to take people in your arms and hold their hands and look in their eyes and twirl. “Hello! Hi! I’m sorry!” I shout to every new partner, and most can’t wait to fling me to the next.“Release hands and turn alone,” the instructor calls out. “But don’t turn your back on your neighbor.”“I turned my back on you,” the older woman next to me says, taking my hand again. “I’m so sorry.”Benevolence! I nearly cry. Colin, still wobbly from the barge and now the twirling, gets sick.The rapper Cardi B, one of two female artists to hit the Billboard No. 1 spot in 2017, is set to perform at the Knockdown Center, an old glass factory converted into a performance and art venue.The coat check line is like Ikea on a Saturday, so we wear ours. The vaulted, concrete-floored space fills up. Women’s necklines plunge in sequined and knit dresses and backless jumpsuits; men wear red tuxedo jackets, ski lodge sweaters and turtlenecks with billowing bell bottoms. A girl in a beret kneels to lick and seal a newly rolled joint, which she then holds high in triumph.AdvertisementThe young crowd is a healthy mix of colors and persuasions, all smoking weed — Jeff Sessions’s nightmare, I reckon.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“If you’ve got somebody who’s locked away, put your cellphone lights up,” the D.J. says, and a sea of cellphones are thrust into the air. “If somebody’s passed on, put ’em up.” More go up. “Keep ’em up, New Year’s Eve,” he says, playing Meek Mill.Plastic flutes of free champagne line the back bars like terra cotta warriors. The crowd is lively and hands are in the air, pounding to a mash-up of Soul II Soul, Snap!, and Rob Base and DJ E-Z Rock. A group of girls form a hand-held chain and first-grade-field-trip their way through the crowd.People make out: scruffy boys, a man holding his girlfriend and a bottle of Patrón, and two glam girls against the column I’d found to lean on but quickly ceded, eminent domain and all. Clumps of V.I.P.s on elevated platforms swell like sea anemone. Colin texts a guy he’s flirting with. I watch Ben Platt’s Instagram story.“It’s officially 60 seconds,” the D.J. says. “New York, make some noise.” New York obliges. “We promise 2018 will be even crazier,” he says.Oh God, I think, don’t say that.When the clock strikes midnight, the air fills with smoke. Cardi B, now onstage, takes the mic.“I want to thank everybody for supporting my music,” she says, then takes a selfie video and leaves the stage. There’s confusion. “Cardi’s gonna have a few drinks, give her 30 minutes,” the D.J. says, and puts on more music.People hit the bars, Edward Scissorhand-ing multiple glasses of champagne. In the gender-neutral bathrooms, there’s vomit in two out of nine sinks. By coat check, people sit on the floor checking their phones, heads drooping like week-old flowers.So far it’s been a lot of “& Friends,” but finally Cardi B emerges, in a sparkly blazer and bra.Advertisement“What’s poppin’?” she asks.I’ve got a contact high and I’m about to swim to a man on a barge, that’s what’s poppin’.“It’s a new year, bitch,” she says. “There was another state that offered me more money, but I wanted to spend it in my home. So let’s get it poppin’.” She throws off her blazer and launches into her hit, “Bodak Yellow.”Fifteen minutes later, she says good night. Plastic flute shards crack underfoot as people pour out toward Flushing Avenue, log-jammed with honking Ubers. It’s 10 degrees.“We waited all that time for two or three songs?” a woman shouts at her friend. “We could’ve gone to a dive bar.”“Would you like a free hug?” a twentysomething in nothing but gold underwear asks me in the entrance to the House of Yes.“Aren’t you freezing?” I say. “I hope you’re getting hazard pay.”“I don’t work here,” he says.Inside a remix of Donna Summer’s “I Feel Love” blasts while silver-leotarded dancers writhe in hanging, spinning cages. Two female go-go dancers, one in silver antlers, the other in a silver dolphin head, dance on the bar.It’s a ’90s-themed party, and I’d hoped for the “Friends” theme, or maybe an episode of “Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman.” People dance in painted suits, blazers with crew neck shirts, Nickelodeon T-shirts and half-undone overalls. Flannels hang from more than a few waists. In the side room, a circle of guys, shirtless under their unzipped Adidas tracksuits, hold hands and take turns staring into one another’s eyes — future contra dancers, all.AdvertisementIt’s quiet like a waiting room on the subway, heading further into Brooklyn.“Where are we going now?” a girl asks her friend.“Home,” her friend replies.“Sweet.”The line for the Spectrum Party at the Dreamhouse, a parquet-floored DIY queer venue, is so long there’d better be a cronut or Bette Midler in “Hello, Dolly!” at the end of it.“Line bumps,” the woman next to me says to herself, tapping a half of a teaspoon or so (I’m hoping to cook more in 2018) of cocaine onto her knuckle, then snorting it.The entryway is littered with tinsel, A.T.M. receipts, and half-full Poland Spring bottles. Inside it’s like a David Lynch rumspringa, but with no choice at the end, just more of what you’re doing. People stumble around like zombies, kissing and shoving — that 4 a.m. mix of inspired and incapable.It’s time to go home.I did it — I left the house and heard music and saw nature and the whites of strangers’ eyes. But, frankly, after 3 a.m., New Year’s takes on a homogeneous blur. People stumble on, blowing at the occasion’s embers long after they’ve gone out. There comes a time when you have to let a night, as you do a year, go.“Bodak Yellow” plays softly on the radio on the ride, and I, sort of, softly, sing along.A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Four Boroughs, One New Year.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.The reality-television competition that began nine years ago has evolved to reflect an era fixated on gender and identity — and the boundary-pushing spirit of its star.By JENNA WORTHAMJAN. 24, 2018
On a soundstage deep in the hills of Los Angeles one morning last August, RuPaul Charles and several drag queens made their way to a set that had been transformed into a simulacrum of the reality-TV show “The Bachelor.” Lacy strands of lights dripped down plastic boxwood hedges, and a row of white fluted columns framed a velvety red strip of carpet. A hot tub bubbled quietly in a corner. The contestants arranged themselves onto a set of bleachers to be appraised by the dashing bachelor, who in this scene was played by the actor Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman, best known for his role on the Lifetime television drama “UnREAL.” They were filming the latest season of the reality competition show “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” and the day’s challenge was meant to showcase the competitors’ acting abilities. The challenge, called “The Bitchelorette,” was a parody of the farcical dynamics that play out on “The Bachelor” each season. The goal was not to win Bowyer-Chapman’s heart but rather to see who could perform — satirize, really — stereotypes of femininity with enough humor to impress the judges.This was an “all star” season, meaning the eight contestants had all appeared in previous seasons. One queen was dressed like a Barbie doll, her makeup exaggerating her features so that her eyes, lips and rosy cheeks resembled an anime character. Another, dressed in an ice-blue peignoir, petted a stuffed lap dog with one hand and preened with the other. A queen wearing a purple halter dress and a fringe wig clutched a martini glass and wobbled dramatically in her hot pink heels.The camera crews started filming. Charles, dressed in an expertly tailored light pink suit, stepped onto the set as the fun-house version of Chris Harrison, host of the “The Bachelor.” Bowyer-Chapman beamed, gamely playing the part of an anxious suitor. Instead of long-stemmed red roses, he would hand out bulging purple eggplants, a nod to their popular use as suggestive emoji. Charles asked Bowyer-Chapman if he was ready to begin the ceremony. Suddenly, the two froze, and their eyes locked. Charles whispered into Bowyer-Chapman’s ear, and in one smooth sweep, Bowyer-Chapman scooped up all 6 feet 4 inches of Charles and strolled away. The departure sent the queens into a choreographed frenzy. The martini drinker pretended to faint. Another queen whipped out an oversize flip phone and screamed at her agent. One pulled out a paper bag and breathed heavily into it.The director called cut, and everyone broke into boisterous laughter, including me. The footage would be assembled into a short film and played for the judges, who would grant the queen whose performance they deemed the best with an automatic slot in the competition’s next round. Part of me wanted to be offended at the over-the-top interpretations of “female” behavior, but I was defenseless against the sheer silliness of it all, and the way that it slyly highlighted how our culture coaxes us to treat finding love as a competition.AdvertisementBowyer-Chapman, a die-hard fan of the show who is a frequent guest judge, later told me that he felt the scene was cutting commentary on both the racial discrimination of “The Bachelor,” which has never had an African-American star, and the way television warps people. The contestants “became caricatures of themselves in ways that were the polar opposite of what usually happens on ‘Drag Race,’ which is about finding the authenticity of yourself and showcasing it,” he said. The show reveals, Bowyer-Chapman argued, that regardless of gender and orientation, “we all have more in common than not.”Drag has been featured in popular culture for decades. Movies like “Kinky Boots,” “Tootsie,” “The Birdcage” — even “Mrs. Doubtfire” — have showcased men, some gay, some not, who dress and perform as women. But most tended to treat drag as high jinks. Nothing about the inner lives of queens has hit critical mass quite like “Drag Race,” not even the 1991 documentary “Paris Is Burning,” which followed the black and Latino drag ball circuit in New York during the 1980s. “It is a popular movie, but it didn’t reach everyone the way a weekly television show does,” said Lady Bunny, a drag queen in her 50s who is often regarded as one of the legendary figures of American drag culture. “Many people have never had any interaction with a drag queen, and barely know what it is,” Bunny continued. “Anytime Middle America gets a taste of a community that they’re not familiar with, it does normalize the L.G.B.T. experience.”Charles has said that he feels he is beyond categorization — he’s black but he’s not; he’s gay but he’s not. These days, when someone says that, it’s usually met with a polite eye roll, the kind reserved for out-of-touch elders. The personal politics of this moment are almost entirely defined by naming. There’s space for every pronoun, every hyphen and every politically correct portmanteau. But Charles belongs to a different generation, one that fought so hard for visibility that they feel they’ve earned the right to eschew all political decorum and enjoy the anarchy of reinvention, co-opting and bending language beyond recognition. When “Drag Race” first began, it seemed like a fun window into an underground culture, but over the nine years it has aired, the show has evolved to reflect America’s changing relationship to queer rights and acceptance.AdvertisementDrag, to Charles, is about the perversion of our understanding of gender, and by extension, ourselves. “We queens take on identity, and it is always a social statement,” Charles explained to me. “It’s all nudge, nudge, wink, wink. We never believe this is who we are. That is why drag is a revolution, because we’re mocking identity. We’re mocking everyone.”Anyone familiar with reality television will recognize the premise of “Drag Race”: Loosely modeled on “America’s Next Top Model,” hosted by Tyra Banks, the show features 12 (or so) contestants who gather to compete for the title of America’s Next Drag Superstar and a cash prize that varies per season but can be as much as $100,000. To determine who will advance to the next round, the queens are given elaborate challenges, like creating haute-couture runway looks from scratch or starring in music videos. “Drag Race” is entertaining in the way that every show that structures itself around transformation is: There’s a pleasant thrill that comes from watching a bland room metamorphose into something out of Architectural Digest, or the creation of an impossibly elaborate meal in under an hour, or a generic-looking man morphing into a gorgeous and statuesque woman.In 2009, the year that the first season of “RuPaul’s Drag Race” was broadcast, the buzziest reality shows on television tended to be the most melodramatic and cattiest — “Survivor” or “The Hills.” “Producers were just looking for the nasty side of the human experience, and I definitely didn’t want to be a part of that,” Charles told me. Randy Barbato and Fenton Bailey, founders of the production house World of Wonder, talked him into it. The trio had been collaborating since the 1980s, when Barbato and Bailey were in an electro band called the Fabulous Pop Tarts. Charles appears in one of their videos in a skin-tight leopard dress. They produced Charles’s VH1 variety show in the 1990s. “I knew they loved drag the way I loved drag, and they would celebrate the art of drag,” Charles said. Tom Campbell, head of development at World of Wonder, told me that the idea for the show was to create a competition that would groom the next generation of drag superstars by replicating all the major milestones of Charles’s career — model, television personality, performer. “This was his turn to give back and create his legacy,” he said.At first, “Drag Race” wasn’t an easy sell. “Everyone felt like it was too much,” Barbato said. Even when Viacom’s L.G.B.T. channel, LogoTV, picked it up, Charles had to fight to realize his vision for the show. According to Charles and the producers, in the first season Logo resisted including a queen named Tammie Brown, who called to mind a cross between Marlene Dietrich and Prymaat, the matriarch in the “Saturday Night Live” sketch “Coneheads.” Charles felt it was important to reflect the oddballs of drag, a staple of the culture.Despite airing on a niche cable channel, the show found a loyal audience that included an elite coterie of celebrity fans who appeared regularly as guest judges, including Lily Tomlin, Debbie Reynolds, Vanessa Williams, Margaret Cho, Amber Rose, Rosie Perez and Khloé Kardashian. It was the most-watched show in the history of Logo. Last year, the show moved to VH1 and grew significantly: The ninth season averaged nearly 1.2 million viewers per episode, more than double that of Season 8, according to data collected by Nielsen. In 2016, Charles won an Emmy for host of a reality show, and in 2017, he won again and the show picked up two more. Time magazine recently named Charles one of its 100 Most Influential People of the year.“Drag Race” has become a staple of modern television for the way it skewers expectations and attitudes about gender, much as a show like “black-ish” works to challenge stereotypes about black families in America. That isn’t to say contestants on “Drag Race” don’t bicker or trade petty insults, as in other reality-TV shows, but the program doesn’t leave viewers with the same existential dread about the future of humanity as, say, any of the “Real Housewives” franchises. In Season 5, for example, a contestant named Jade Jolie criticized her competitor, Alyssa Edwards, for having back fat. In a cutaway reaction, Edwards cocked an eyebrow, recoiled in disbelief and managed to completely defang the insult with a single word: “Backrolls?” — signaling that the word was both ludicrous (she is rail-thin) and so untoward that it could not be taken seriously. Some five seasons later, “backrolls” still pops up on the show as a kind of venomless meta-reference.Each season is imbued with a sense of optimism in the face of relentless adversity; Charles believes that is central to the gay and queer experience. “There is a sisterhood here,” he told me. “It has to do with the shared experience of being outsiders and making a path for ourselves.” The camaraderie Charles describes is evident: Even after their season ends, “Drag Race” contestants work together, live together, travel together. Their Instagrams are full of photos of one another. The kinship feels real, and it’s what initially caught my attention and endeared the show to me.Amid the glitz and glamour of drag, the show doesn’t obscure the violence and terror that accompanies the life of the marginalized. On the first season, a contestant named Porkchop described being shot at while standing outside a gay bar. In Season 8, Kim Chi, a shy Korean-American queen known for elaborate outfits, talked about hiding her colorful drag persona from her parents out of fear of shaming them. Trinity K Bonet talked about living with H.I.V. Last season, Cynthia Lee Fontaine revealed that if not for a last-minute change in her schedule, she would have performed at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando the night of the mass shooting there; one of her friends, Martin Benitez Torres, unaware of the change, came to see her and was killed in the massacre. When I asked Charles if there was a deliberate decision to infuse the show with overt political messaging, he shook his head. “It’s inherent in our experience. We don’t have to do much to infuse a consciousness into the show. It is such a part of our story, and we walk with it.”AdvertisementAs “Drag Race” matures, it continues to find a broader and younger audience. Charles told me that some of the most dedicated viewers are women, especially teenagers and women in their 20s and 30s. “There is so much programming by social media, and how you have to construct your sense of self in line with how everyone else is constructing their sense of self. I think they see our show as a handbook for a navigation, and think, How can I rig this conveyor belt where I don’t have to go down that thing?” That awakening feels familiar to him because he went through it himself at 13. He looked like a girl, with sharp cheekbones, a soft brow and a red Afro that he let grow so big that it flopped down. “When I first started doing drag in clubs, it was like the blurry picture that people had of me became clear,” he told me. “Some of the queens were kicked out of their homes, bullied or ostracized from society, and here they are looking gorgeous and confident. I know that’s what kids are relating to. They’re having a great time, but they’ve overcome the pain too.”Charles thinks these new fans who follow him and the queens on Instagram or who show up at live events for the show are embracing the spirit of drag and the freedom it offers. “They are shifting the balance of masculinity and femininity. And that makes me so optimistic.” I was slightly skeptical that so many young people were watching the show, but as we sat over breakfast at Palihouse in West Hollywood, I noticed a middle-aged woman hovering with a nervous grin, waiting for her moment to approach. As Charles stood up, unfolding his lanky frame — sheathed in a slightly iridescent emerald-green suit — and leaned down to pick up his brown leather handbag, the woman rushed over. She wanted a photograph. “It’s not for me, but for my kids,” she explained. Her children were 9 and 5, she told Charles. “They watch you every week,” she gushed. “They love you.”The story of Charles’s name goes like this: His mother, Ernestine — friends called her Toni — was thumbing through the July 1960 issue of Ebony Magazine, where there was a spread of the singer and piano player Fats Domino’s new $200,000 home in New Orleans. A photograph of Domino enjoying a cocktail with the architect who designed his new home, Albert J. Saputo, as well as his wife and Domino’s friends Louis Diamond and Ripoll Roberts, caught Toni’s eye. She drew an arrow to Ripoll’s name and wrote “boy” underneath. Ernestine was Creole, and she wanted her next child’s name to reflect her heritage. She changed “Ri” to “Ru” to symbolize roux, the base of Louisiana dishes like gumbo. A psychic had told her that her unborn child would be famous, and she was determined to give the baby a name meant for a marquee.A few months later, in November 1960, that boy was born. His full name was RuPaul Andre Charles. His parents were living in San Diego at the time, having moved with their twins, Renetta and Renae, from Louisiana during the second wave of the Great Migration. Charles’s parents traveled to the farthest coast, the literal end of the country their ancestors were forcibly brought to, only to discover that the mythos of the West — that it was a land of fresh starts — was far more complicated for black people, who still faced discrimination. “She was heartbroken by this world,” he told me, with tears in his eyes. His parents were poor, and Charles’s mother suffered from a debilitating depression throughout his youth. “My folks, and other folks in the South, had such traumatic experiences. I was able to dissect and deconstruct some of my feelings. I could afford to do it. They couldn’t afford to do it.”In the summer of 1976, Renetta and her husband, Laurence, moved to Atlanta and invited Charles, who was 15, to join them. “It was like my bar mitzvah,” Charles told me. “Southern culture has always had a place for eccentrics. I was ready to bust out and become who I am today.” Those years imbued Charles with confidence. He enrolled at a performing-arts high school, where he took drama and theater. Atlanta’s night life was a Warholian village of underground clubs, art shows, D.I.Y. movie shoots and warehouse parties. Under the governance of Maynard Jackson, the city’s first African-American mayor, Atlanta was also a boomtown for African-Americans, creatively, socially and economically. He had never seen so many black people in one place — he didn’t even know that many black people existed.He saw his first drag performance: Crystal LaBeija, an icon in drag-queen history, was singing Donna Summer in black fishnets and a bustier. Charles was floored. He used Renetta’s sewing machine and drafted the first iteration of his new persona, blending the new-wave punk aesthetic of Bow Wow Wow, the goth freakiness of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” and jungle prints. A favorite look was a jock strap with football shoulder pads, fishnets and knee-high wading boots and dramatic eyes, all finished with a pile of hair whose volume rivaled Tina Turner’s. He started bands, made music videos with friends, appeared on public-access variety shows and worked as a go-go dancer. He papered downtown Atlanta with handmade posters of himself that read, “RuPaul Is Everything,” and “RuPaul Is Red Hot.”Although drag has a long cultural history in America, it remained largely underground till the late 1980s. During the 1920s, the height of speakeasy culture in America, illicit venues and establishments that catered to gay clientele frequently hosted drag performance. By the 1940s and 1950s, postwar America had become more conservative, and the gay community was more heavily policed: A “pervert inquiry” in government agencies led to dismissals of federal and military personnel suspected of homosexuality. Cross-dressing was a punishable offense; in New York, men wearing fewer than three pieces of clothing could be arrested. But with the end of McCarthyism and the beginning of the sexual revolution, by the late 1960s and early 1970s, the United States was home to about 500 regularly performing drag queens, with several, like Divine, reaching cult status. When Charles settled in Manhattan in the late 1980s, drag was a full-on cultural phenomenon in the city, and Charles was determined to be at its center.At 28, Charles became a fixture as a dancer at downtown clubs like Pyramid, Tunnel and Limelight. His popularity and career exploded when he teamed up with a D.J. named Larry Tee for the roving underground party Love Machine. It quickly became a trendy scene — even Liza Minnelli made an appearance. By then, Charles had transformed his look from what he called “fright drag” to something much more glamorous. The B-52s asked Charles to appear in their 1989 video “Love Shack,” which was shown regularly on MTV; four years later, Charles released the album “Supermodel of the World” on Tommy Boy Records, a label that had introduced acts like De La Soul and Queen Latifah. The album featured the song “Supermodel (You Better Work),” in which he gave models runway advice like “shantay,” a word Charles described as casting a bewitching spell. The song became a club anthem. The designers Todd Oldham and Isaac Mizrahi used it in their runway presentations during fashion week, and a cover of it appeared in “The Lizzie McGuire Movie.” In 1993, it was nominated for best dance video at the MTV Video Music Awards. Charles landed a regular modeling contract with MAC Cosmetics — the advertising campaign featured him in full glamazon drag, alongside the tag line “I am the MAC girl.” He had become the most successful queen of his era.I asked Charles if his mother ever got to see him perform. She did, once, in 1993. She was on her deathbed at home, suffering from cancer. She and Charles watched a Kurt Loder segment on MTV News around the release of “Supermodel.” It showed Charles prancing around a mall in New Jersey before a recorded voice-over declared him a “supermodel of the world.” His mother turned to him, he recalled, and said, “Nigga, you crazy.” But Toni could also see that the psychic’s premonition — that Charles would be famous — had come true. “I could see her thinking, It’s happening,” he told me.AdvertisementFor two years, he hosted, accompanied by his close friend Michelle Visage (a regular judge on “Drag Race”), “The RuPaul Show,” a kind of variety program featuring pop-culture celebrities like Cher and Eartha Kitt. It was the first national show to have a drag queen as host. He released 10 more studio albums, but none were as successful as “Supermodel.” Then Bailey and Barbato, his World of Wonder co-producers, urged him to pitch the reality-show competition that would become “RuPaul’s Drag Race.” “We thought, Everyone is ready for drag — it’s mainstream now,” Barbato said. “Distribution is part of the reason it hadn’t been realized as a cultural phenomenon.”Since “Drag Race” first aired in 2009, the conversation around identity and gender has shifted tremendously. For all the show has done to challenge its audience’s notions of masculinity and femininity, it has shied away, until the most recent season, from any serious discussion about the ways the drag community intersects the trans one. There have been trans queens on the show, but the topic is a touchy one in the drag community. For most drag artists, the point is the performance; it is not their sole identity. But for those queens who identify as trans or nonbinary, their stage persona is not necessarily a performance. The centerpiece of the show is the contestants’ transforming themselves into queens, and then, after each competition, taking off their wigs and removing synthetic breasts to reappear as men. For years, “Drag Race” prioritized entertainment over any nuances of the culture. Much of the queens’ vernacular, body language and movements come from the drag world’s — especially white queens’ — interpretation of black femininity. I’ve always been uncomfortable with that phenomenon, despite how much I enjoy the show. In his essay “ ‘Draguating’ to Normal,” the academic Josh Morrison argues that by using the bodies of women, people of color and other marginalized groups, “through an often loving, well-intentioned impersonation of them,” drag “unintentionally does them discursive violence.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A few years ago, the show hit a third rail. On “America’s Next Top Model,” Banks would send the contestants a video message called “TyraMail” when she wanted to communicate with them; “Drag Race” had a version of this called “She-Mail.” There were also challenges in which contestants were shown body parts and asked to guess “female” or “shemale.” Some viewers complained on Twitter, and trans activists and writers started a public campaign advocating against the terms “she-mail” and “she-male,” arguing that they were transphobic. Charles and his producers initially defended their position. Charles tweeted, “Orwell’s book ‘Animal Farm’: The rebels eventually forgot the purpose of the revolution.” But eventually the show dropped the term. Carmen Carrera, who competed in the show’s third season and came out as transgender after her season aired, wrote on Facebook that although she didn’t think the show meant any harm, “ ‘shemale’ is an incredibly offensive word, and this whole business about if you can tell whether a woman is biological or not is getting kind of old.” For Charles, the controversy represented the antithesis of drag, which he sees as a subversive, countercultural reminder not to take the world so seriously. But for members of the trans community, language isn’t a magic trick. Stepping into an identity other than the one you were assigned at birth isn’t a performance — it’s a confirmation and a correction.The controversy speaks to how quickly the culture has changed over the past 10 years. When I was on the phone with Lady Bunny, I used the word “queer.” Bunny let out an exasperated sigh. “Oh, God, do I have to say it, too, now?” During her youth, which is still recent history, “queer” was a slur — what “they’d say right before they bashed you in the head,” she reminded me. The boundary-pushers of Charles and Bunny’s time reveled in making a mockery of identity politics and political correctness; ours is defined by sharpening categories as a means to demand inclusion and recognition. (Facebook now has more than 50 options for listing gender identity, including pangender and agender.)Throughout my conversations with Charles, I got the sense that he is a sensitive person who is actively trying to evolve with the times. “Every season the girls come and they challenge me. A new nose contour technique or a new way to see themselves and identity, and it helps me stay on my game and stay engaged in the conversation.” Last season, midway through the show, a queen in her late 30s named Peppermint revealed she was transgender, the first time being trans became a significant part of a character’s narrative arc. Peppermint talked openly about her transition with Charles and the other contestants. Peppermint had auditioned twice for the show, and she didn’t mention her transness. “I was always careful to separate my trans identity from my drag career,” she told me in a phone conversation. When she finally made it onto the show, she was asked if she would feel comfortable speaking about it. She has gorgeous features and deep dimples, but on the show, she described how her figure and hair, which were perceived as masculine, invited critiques from people who felt she should transition further or appear more feminine. “I came to terms with my womanhood, even if I naturally have a beard growing in,” she said. “Men don’t own gender and gender performance. We all can turn gender on its head.”Peppermint noted the ways the popularity of “Drag Race” has bolstered an entire community, and in turn, an entire economy. In the ’90s, she recalled, it was only lucrative to be a drag queen if you were one of the chosen queens — Lady Bunny, Candis Cayne, Miss Understood and, of course, RuPaul. She reminisced about doing drag seven days a week to pay the rent. “Really, only 10 or 15 queens were benefiting,” she said. “And now the show has given so much exposure that it gives everyone a chance to earn very good money and recoup all the investments that we’ve put in over the years — you know, the money we’ve spent on glitter and rhinestones.”Jack Halberstam, a professor of English and gender studies at Columbia University and author of the book “Female Masculinity,” a study of the history of diverse gender expressions, told me that we’re in a watershed moment for gender visibility and equality, and he doesn’t want to play down the importance of a mainstream drag show on television. Even now, gay life on television is limited — typically it’s a side plot or narrative device. Representation still matters. But he raised an interesting point: “Notice that there’s no ‘RuPaul’s Drag Kings,’ ” Halberstam said — meaning the culture of drag where people, usually gay women, dress up as passable versions of men. “It’s as equally raucous and raunchy, with lip-syncing and costume competitions. We still have this idea that femininity is malleable, and masculinity is a protected domain of real power and privilege. It is not transferable or attainable. The public has no appetite for artificial masculinity.”I tried to imagine a version of the show where contestants won prizes for making fun of male archetypes and stereotypes, and demonstrated that male identity can be deconstructed as easily as whipping off a toupee and a soft prosthetic penis. It was impossible.AdvertisementCharles’s dressing room on the set of “Drag Race” is actually two rooms: One for his suits, the other for his gowns. In the room with gowns, there were tables full of costume jewelry and impossibly large (and tall!) stiletto heels; there was a table devoted to makeup, and on racks, an enviable number of ball gowns in all sorts of materials and shades — pink sequins, purple plaid taffeta, black tulle. Charles made sure I noticed the size of the mirror — it was at least seven feet tall, purchased specifically to accommodate his height. Charles loves clothes. He has a staggering number of shoes and bespoke suits, which were handmade by the Los Angeles label Klein Epstein & Parker. Each includes a custom label: The words under the collar read, “Born Naked,” and inside, “The Rest Is Drag,” an adage that Charles coined.Charles frequently described his relationship to drag as “the Superman to my Clark Kent.” The first time he stepped into his drag persona, Charles felt fully alive, electric with a power to command attention and desire. One day his therapist told him he could be Superman regardless of his attire. “She said, ‘The power you feel in drag is available to you 24/7,’ ” he told me. That realization, he said, is what he is trying to relay in each season of the show, to both the queens and the viewers. Charles is rarely in drag these days — only for special occasions, and during the judging and elimination rounds on the show — a shift that he made about a decade ago. For Charles, the confidence and fun of drag is a state of mind, not an outfit change. But he is always keenly aware of the power dynamics (the ones Halberstam noted) that favor men, even when they are taking on female personas. “We never forget the fact that we are men in a male-dominated culture where masculinity is a currency that is valued more than gold. For men to do anything with femininity, to use femininity as a palette, it’s basically an act of treason in our culture.”During a break in taping while I was on set, Charles rounded up people for a game of dirty charades, which he loves so much that he keeps a list of clever ideas on his iPhone that is several swipes long. Empty director’s chairs were dragged into an approximation of an audience around the giant stage where the show’s contestants usually walk the runway. About half a dozen crew members arranged themselves accordingly. Charles, impeccable in his petal-pink three-piece suit, leapt onto the stage, lit by fuchsia lights, and signaled the start of the game. He used his hands to simulate the whirring of an analog film camera, and then held up three fingers, indicating a three-word movie title. He pinched his forefinger and thumb to indicate that the first word was short. He curled his hands into soft fists and raised them to his mouth. He mimed licking himself, and then spun around and squatted, reaching his hands around and motioning as if he were pulling something from his ass. The group, including me, burst into laughter. Someone yelled, “That Darn Scat!” and Charles slapped his thighs and released a peal of laughter so distinct and delightful — like a throaty giggle — that as a child his older sisters regularly tickled it out of him.No one wanted to try and top that performance, so Charles cycled through several more R-rated versions of movies and songs like “It’s the Hard-Knock Life,” “A Clockwork Orange” and “The Blue Lagoon.” After each round, there was wild applause. I had the discomfiting sensation of catching a glimpse of something deeply private, like walking in on someone in a state of undress or using the bathroom. I had seen more than 100 episodes of “Drag Race.” I had watched Charles play the matriarch and patriarch, dispensing wisdom, jokes, admonishments and pep talks. Here, he looked carefree as he moved seamlessly between impersonations of a tough biker, a coquettish flirt, a naughty schoolgirl. Onscreen, he was always slightly removed, distant, ruling the show with a steely reserve that bordered on conservatism. The contrast between that Ru and the Ru pantomiming masturbation onstage was so disorienting it made my head spin. Watching him shape-shift onstage, I finally understood what he was trying to get at, how he refuses the outward ways in which people try to characterize him — and really, all people.Charles has been with his husband, Georges LeBar, since 1994, when they met on the dance floor at Limelight. On their second date, they flew from London to Düsseldorf on Elton John’s private jet. They married in early 2017, 23 years after they met. The couple split their time between Los Angeles and Wyoming, where LeBar, a ruggedly handsome man somehow taller than Charles, has a 60,000-acre ranch. When they can, they take quick trips to San Francisco, New York or Maui. One time they took a helicopter from Las Vegas to the Grand Canyon, had lunch and took a boat down the Colorado River. “Having money is great when you have an imagination,” Charles told me. I asked him if LeBar likes that sort of thing. “He loves luxury and doesn’t give a [expletive] about culture,” Charles replied. “He doesn’t know who the Kardashians are. He doesn’t know who Lil Yachty is. He couldn’t name a Taylor Swift song.” It’s a reprieve from the celebrity status of Charles’s world.But Charles thrives on that culture. He is working on a scripted television series for Hulu with the director J.J. Abrams based on his own life, and he recently appeared in the fourth season of “Broad City,” as Marcel, the manager of a haughty Brooklyn restaurant where Ilana works, who encourages her to be mean to the customers as a tactic to pressure them into spending money. Ilana eventually pushes back against Marcel’s tyranny and realizes she is more successful as herself — the ultimate Ru message. “We wrote this character with Ru in mind,” Abbi Jacobson, the creator of the show with Ilana Glazer, told me. “There’s a [expletive]-it mentality of being and owning yourself, and experimenting with yourself,” she said of his appeal. Jacobson and Glazer watched “The RuPaul Show” when it aired during the 1990s and remembered the fun freakiness of the cast and characters. At the time, Glazer was also watching the sitcom “Saved by the Bell,” which featured model-looking teenagers; the show made her feel “ugly and fat,” she said. “It was such a relief to change the channel and see Ru dancing and partying in the margins, and making space for his identity. He elbowed his way into the room in such a way that includes so many more people than him, and that representation trickled all the way down to these two little weird Jewish girls.”I arrived at a Midtown Manhattan convention hall early on a Sunday morning in September to find the new drag economy, the one that Peppermint noted, at work. In 2015, Charles and World of Wonder created RuPaul’s DragCon, a multiday convention about all things drag. Charles had mentioned to me it several times — he is nothing if not media-savvy — as the future of his empire and a way to widen the culture of drag beyond a television show and nighttime acts.Tables were laden with items for sale: intricate corsets, leather gloves, beaded jewelry, sequined pasties, gel breastplates and elaborate bouffant-style wigs in every shade of pastel. There were makeup counters and queens giving attendees makeovers. One aisle was marked “backrolls.” Past winners and former contestants paraded the halls, with everyone holding court in their best looks. Ginger Minj was dressed as Snow White, while Bob the Drag Queen looked like a cute clown in a blue tulle top and yellow party hat. Nearby, a queen named Detox lounged near the kind of bubble pit usually reserved for children at a fast-food restaurant. There were local queens, too, as well as children like Lactatia, a 9-year-old drag queen from Montreal (born Nemis Quinn Mélançon Golden), who strutted the convention floor in an iridescent hologram three-piece suit and a cotton-candy-pink bobbed wig. Peppermint was there, too, resplendent in a sheer polka-dot caftan.Hordes of young people swarmed around the queens, eager to have their photos taken with them. There were long lines of men and women excited to take photographs with Charles, who was holding court in a section reserved for the V.I.P.s who bought special badges. There were people dressed as mermaids, muppets, cartoon characters and ghouls. There was a queen dressed as a sea captain being half-eaten by a shark. The atmosphere was the freakiest I’d ever seen in Midtown during the daylight. I flashed back to a conversation with Charles when he told me about the early days of throwing wild, gender-bending parties in New York. People came out for the simple sake of experimenting. They dressed weird and let loose on the dance floor — the only place such liberation was possible back then.AdvertisementAt one point, I spied a pack of children, of indeterminate gender, outfitted in suits and dresses. They could have been dressed for the occasion, or just in their daily wear. Amid of sea of six- and seven-foot queens in stilettos, they stood out, doll-size and adorable. Their cuteness drew gasps and oohs, but I also couldn’t help thinking that we were also captivated by them for another reason: They felt like a glimpse of a future — and maybe even, someday, the new normal.Jenna Wortham is a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine and co-host of the podcast “Still Processing.” She recently wrote for the magazine on the racial dynamics of whisper networks about sexual misconduct.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 2018, on Page MM26 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Make Yourself Up.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.The e-commerce giant announced a short list of places that could become home to its second headquarters. The process has garnered the kind of enthusiasm normally reserved for bids to host the Olympics.Outside an Amazon building in Seattle.CreditElaine Thompson/Associated PressSupported byAmazon’s hunt for a second headquarters, after several months of publicity stunts and dangled perks from cities and regions vying to lure the e-commerce giant, has been narrowed to 20 options from 238 bids. The company, which is based in Seattle, plans to invest $5 billion in development and create up to 50,000 jobs wherever it builds its newest hub. Among its criteria: more than one million residents, proximity to an airport, manageable commutes, diverse demographics, connectivity and local schools churning out potential employees.With the kind of enthusiasm normally reserved for bids to host the Olympics, governors, mayors, business leaders and others have pulled together proposals promoting the potential of their cities and regions, sometimes going to outlandish lengths. These are the places that caught Amazon’s attention. By Mitch SmithPopulation: 472,000 in the city and 5.7 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: Georgia Tech, Emory University, Georgia State University, and Morehouse and Spelman Colleges are in the city. The University of Georgia is about 70 miles away.Transit: The airport is, by some metrics, the largest in the world. There are rail and streetcar systems, but most residents depend on the sprawling network of interstates. Atlanta’s traffic jams are notorious.Perks: Gov. Nathan Deal said he would call a special legislative session to work out an incentives deal if a location in Georgia was among the final three contenders.By Mitch SmithPopulation: 947,000 in the city and two million in the metropolitan area.Schools: The University of Texas’ flagship campus, which enrolls more than 51,000 students, is in the city. St. Edward’s University, a Roman Catholic institution, is also in Austin.Transit: Austin’s airport has flights to most major American cities and to Europe. The city also has a commuter rail line, but most people use cars to get around. Perks: “I still not have heard any conversations about offering incentives,” Mayor Steve Adler said at a Thursday news conference. He said there needed to be “a very open and transparent community conversation about Amazon and all these related issues.”By Tiffany HsuPopulation: 673,000 in the city and 4.8 million in the metropolitan area, according to census data from 2016.Schools: The caliber of local schools is impressive, including Harvard University, Boston University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Tufts University.Transit: Logan International Airport is 15 minutes from Boston’s financial district. Amtrak trains make dozens of trips between Boston, New York and Washington each weekday. And a third of Boston residents take public transportation to work, according to the city’s bid. Perks: The proposal does not promise any specific financial incentives to help reel in Amazon. But Worcester, which is roughly an hour away from Boston, has pledged $500 million in property tax breaks spread over 20 years, according to The Boston Globe.Other: Boston’s bid pointed to the more than 150 robotics companies in the area, the 3,200 people working in robotics jobs and the $200 million in private investments garnered by the field in the last year. By Tiffany HsuPopulation: 2.7 million people in the city and 9.5 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: The Chicago area is home to Northwestern, the University of Chicago and the Illinois Institute of Technology.Transit: Chicago has some of the nation’s worst traffic. But officials boast that its extensive subway and commuter rail system runs far more efficiently than networks in many major cities. O’Hare International Airport is one of the busiest airports in the world; Midway International Airport is another sizable hub.Perks: Chicago promised roughly $2 billion in tax incentives and infrastructure spending, and $250 million for work force training, according to The Chicago Tribune. Officials identified 10 potential downtown, urban and suburban sites for Amazon’s facilities. Other: The city’s association with violence — it led the nation in murders with 765 in 2016 — coexists alongside a cultural scene that features some of the most celebrated food and art in the country.By Kirk JohnsonPopulation: Two million in the metropolitan area.Schools: Ohio State University is the big wheel in town, with more than 66,000 students, but smaller schools abound.Transit: The city beat out 77 competitors to win federal funding in 2016 to plan and build what the Department of Transportation’s Smart Cities Challenge project.Perks: The city’s bid was created by Columbus 2020, the regional economic-development arm for an 11-county region, which has released few specifics.By Mitch SmithPopulation: 1.3 million in the city and 7.2 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: Southern Methodist University, home to George W. Bush’s presidential library, is in Dallas, and Texas Christian University is in nearby Fort Worth. The University of Texas has campuses in the suburbs of Richardson and Arlington.Transit: The airport is one of the country’s busiest, but public transit fares poorly when compared with systems in other large cities. A high-speed rail line to Houston is in the works.Perks: The city has not released details, but Mayor Mike Rawlings said in an interview Thursday that he believed local and state “incentives are going to be an important part of this.” He said the city was waiting to hear more from Amazon about the next steps.By Tiffany HsuPopulation: 693,000 in the city and 2.9 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: Amazon could draw from Regis University, the University of Denver, the University of Colorado and other schools. The Colorado School of Mines in nearby Golden is known for its engineering and applied sciences work.Transit: Denver International Airport has the third-largest domestic air service network in the country, according to a copy of the city’s bid obtained by The Denver Post. The region has added some 122 miles of commuter lines, light rail and bus services in the last 15 years. Perks: If Amazon chooses a city or county in Colorado, it could potentially have access to more than $100 million in incentives, pulled from a state fund set up to recruit large employers and from a tax credit to encourage job growth, according to The Denver Post.Other: Denver, with its reputation for progressive politics and outdoor activities, is popular with millennials. Google, Twitter, Oracle and IBM all have offices in Denver or in nearby Boulder. By Kirk JohnsonPopulation: 855,164 in the city and two million in the metropolitan area.Schools: The city can claim the University of Indianapolis, Butler University and Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis.Transit: Getting around has meant mostly driving. But in 2016, voters approved a local income tax increase to fund transit improvements including a big expansion of bus service.Perks: The city’s bid was put together by the Indy Chamber, an economic development group, in conjunction Indianapolis and Fishers, a nearby city, but few details have emerged.By Kirk JohnsonPopulation: Four million in the city and 13.1 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: The University of California, Los Angeles, proclaims the city’s name in its brand, but higher education also abounds at California State University Los Angeles and private schools like Loyola Marymount University and International American University.Transit: Los Angeles defined the modern idea of long-distance commuting through a haze of car-exhaust smog, but is now building one of the most ambitious and expensive transit systems in the nation, funded by a 0.5 percent local sales tax approved by voters in 2016.Perks: The city’s bid was formulated in conjunction with Los Angeles County, and has largely been kept secret for what a spokesman for Mayor Eric M. Garcetti said were competitive reasons. Gov. Jerry Brown also offered Amazon an incentive package on behalf of the state, including tax credits and a pledge to support the streamlining of permits, approvals and regulations.By Patricia MazzeiPopulation: Six million in Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach Counties, which submitted a joint application to Amazon.Schools: The University of Miami is the best-known school in the region, which is also home to Florida International University in western Miami-Dade, Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton and several other institutions.Transit: Miami International, one of three airports in the South Florida region, leads the nation in international cargo service. But Miami also suffers from dreadful traffic. A new express train connecting Miami to Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach might offer some congestion relief.Perks: The region has kept its application secret, but it proposed eight sites to Amazon: five in Miami-Dade, two in Broward and one in Palm Beach.Other: Some local officials have been openly skeptical of Miami’s chances, citing the limited public transportation system.By Patricia MazzeiPopulation: One million.Schools: The University of Maryland’s main campus is just over the county line in Prince George’s County. Johns Hopkins University is an hour drive away in Baltimore, and several other schools are even closer.Transit: Montgomery County, home to the northern Washington suburbs of Bethesda and Silver Spring, is near three major airports and on the Metro system, where a new purple line extending service is under construction.Perks: Montgomery County has not made its bid public, but it promoted a 60-acre site near a Metro stop.By Mitch SmithPopulation: 684,000 in the city and 1.8 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: Nashville is home to several private universities, including Vanderbilt, Lipscomb and Belmont. Tennessee State University, a historically black institution, is also in Nashville. Transit: City leaders have urged a swift expansion of the public transportation system, which is less expansive than those in many other finalist cities.Perks: City officials declined to comment on incentives.By Patricia MazzeiPopulation: 282,000.Schools: Rutgers University’s main campus is a 40-minute drive away, and Newark has a satellite campus. Princeton University is about an hour away. And New York — 30 minutes away on the PATH train — is home to numerous universities.Transit: New Jersey Transit serves the city. The PATH train links Newark to New York’s subway system. And the Northeast Corridor is connected on Amtrak. The proposed Amazon site is near Newark Liberty International Airport, which is also a FedEx hub.Perks: New Jersey offered Amazon about $5 billion in tax breaks over a decade if it creates 30,000 jobs and makes $3 billion in capital investments, under legislation signed by Gov. Chris Christie before he left office. Newark, New Jersey’s largest city, put up additional property-tax abatements and a payroll-tax break, together worth up to $2 billion. By Patricia MazzeiPopulation: 8.5 million.Schools: The city says it’s home to 105 “institutions of higher learning,” including major universities like Columbia University, New York University, the City University of New York and the State University of New York.Transit: Few people want to drive, but the subway system — for all of its problems — is extensive, as are the bus and commuter rail options. Public transit is available into the three major international airports, Kennedy, LaGuardia and Newark Liberty.Perks: New York did not offer special subsidies or tax breaks beyond the ones available to any company. It listed four possible neighborhoods for the headquarters: the West Side of Manhattan, Lower Manhattan, Long Island City in Queens and the Brooklyn Tech Triangle, which includes Downtown, Dumbo and Brooklyn Navy Yard. Other: The city tops a study of cities best able to meet Amazon’s requirements, compiled by Anderson Economic Group, with Chicago secondBy Patricia MazzeiPopulation: 1.8 million in Arlington, Fairfax and Loudoun Counties.Schools: George Mason University is in Fairfax, with a number of other universities nearby. The University of Virginia, Richmond University and Virginia Commonwealth University are two-hour drives away.Transit: Northern Virginia boasts two major airports, Ronald Reagan Washington National and Washington Dulles. Driving on and around the Beltway can be horrendous, but commuters can also take the Metro subway system and the Virginia Railway Express, a suburban commuter rail system.Perks: Northern Virginia’s proposal included four potential sites, one each in Alexandria, Arlington County, Fairfax County and Loudoun County.By Tiffany HsuPopulation: 1.6 million in the city and 6.1 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: The employee pipeline to Amazon could come from the University of Pennsylvania, Temple University, Drexel University and other local campuses.Transit: Philadelphia has hundreds of miles of bike lanes with an extensive bike-sharing network. The Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority is the fifth-largest transit system in the country. Perks: Settling down in Philadelphia (or Pittsburgh) could net Amazon more than $1 billion in tax incentives.Other: On its bid website, Philadelphia pitched itself as an affordable option for Amazon employees. The cost of living in the city is 18 percent lower than it is in Seattle, where median home prices are nearly twice as high.By Tiffany HsuPopulation: 304,000 in the city and 2.3 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: Potential breeding grounds for future employees include Carnegie Mellon University, the University of Pittsburgh and Duquesne University.Transit: The Pittsburgh International Airport lost thousands of jobs and hundreds of flights when a US Airways hub shut down in 2004, but nonstop destinations have nearly doubled in the last two years, with a $1 billion modernization plan set to kick off in 2019. Perks: More than $1 billion in public aid from the state, according to The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.Other: Known for its arts scene and food boom, Pittsburgh is also developing a reputation as a tech hub. Uber has tested autonomous vehicles on the city’s streets, though the experiments have caused some conflict. Duolingo, a popular language app, is based there. Apple, Google and Facebook also have offices in the area.By Mitch SmithPopulation: 458,000 in the city and 1.3 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: Raleigh is home to North Carolina State University and is within a half-hour drive of Durham’s Duke University and Chapel Hill’s flagship campus of the University of North Carolina.Transit: The airport serves a handful of international destinations, and voters recently approved a transportation tax to improve roads. There is bus service but no commuter rail.Perks: City officials declined to discuss incentives.By Tiffany HsuPopulation: 2.7 million in the city and 6.2 million in the metropolitan area, according to Canadian census data from 2016.Schools: The University of Toronto and the University of Waterloo are considered two of the best engineering schools in Canada; York University is also a highly regarded institution.Transit: It is possible to fly from Toronto’s Pearson or Billy Bishop airport to Boston, Chicago, New York and Washington within 90 minutes. Perks: No billion-dollar subsidies here, only reasonable incentives, according to a report from CBC.Other: Google last year opened an artificial intelligence lab in the city, which is considered one of the places on the cutting edge of A.I. research. (One of Google’s corporate siblings has bigger ambitions there.) Toronto’s official proposal stresses its embrace of immigrants, noting that 51 percent of the city’s residents come from outside Canada.By Patricia MazzeiPopulation: 681,170 in the city and 6.1 million in the metropolitan area.Schools: Georgetown University, George Washington University, Howard University and American University are among the schools in the district.Transit: Navigating Beltway traffic is challenging, but the Metro system, despite declines in service and ridership, makes it possible to get around the city and to Ronald Reagan Washington National and Washington Dulles Airports. Perks: Washington offered Amazon a zero-percent corporate tax rate for five years, and an exemption from state sales taxes on hardware and software, according to records obtained by WAMU, a public radio station. The city proposed four neighborhoods as Amazon locations: the Anacostia River around Nationals Park and the new D.C. United soccer stadium; behind Union Station; south of R.F.K. Stadium; and around the U Street and Shaw neighborhoods.Other: Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, who owns The Washington Post, bought the city’s biggest mansion in 2016, for $23 million in cash.Zach Wichter contributed reporting.AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 16, 2018
Good Tuesday, and welcome back. Here’s what we’re watching:• Will G.E. be broken up? Maybe not in the way people think.• Nestlé signs a deal to sell its U.S. confectionary business to Ferrero.• Why Elliott is agitating at Bezeq.• The one interesting number from Silver Lake’s $3.5 billion bid for Blackhawk Network.• Qualcomm’s busy M.&A. day.Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.John Flannery, G.E.’s chief executive, is considering changes in the way that the company operates, he said today. Though the news accompanied the announcement that G.E. would take a $6.2 billion charge related to its legacy insurance portfolio, the statements are unrelated.The problem: Many on Wall Street think that Mr. Flannery was talking about the once-unfathomable idea that G.E. could be broken apart into separate businesses.AdvertisementOn a conference call with analysts, Mr. Flannery said:“We are looking aggressively at the best structure or structures for our portfolio to maximize the potential of our businesses. Our results, over the past several years, including 2017 and the insurance charge, only further my belief that we need to continue to move with purpose to reshape GE.”Late last year, Mr. Flannery, who succeeded Jeff Immelt as C.E.O. in August, said he will make the company smaller by reducing the number of businesses it is in. He said that G.E. would focus on jet engines, power-generation equipment and health-care machines.AdvertisementThe context: It’s unlikely that G.E. will make an announcement in the spring that it will only fiddle around the edges, like more fully spinning off its Baker Hughes oil-field services unit. But it’s also unlikely that Mr. Flannery will be the one to break up the 125-year-old conglomerate.It’s more likely that Mr. Flannery and his team will consider unique ways of separating G.E.’s core business units without actually splitting them completely apart. But it’s all somewhat speculative at the moment.Critic’s corner, from Brook Sutherland of Gadfly:It is now abundantly apparent that the previous management team led by Jeff Immelt had little handle on the comings and goings of all the pieces of this sprawling conglomerate. The reasons for keeping GE together — shared resources and technology — look increasingly tenuous. If you ask employees, they don’t really see the benefit of having both a power and an aviation business, for example.— Stephen Grocer and Michael J. de la MercedThe attorneys general of 22 states filed a lawsuit to block the Federal Communications Commission’s repeal of regulations that ensure an equal and open internet, reports the NYT’s Cecilia Kang.The attorneys general said the rollback of so-called net neutrality rules were “arbitrary and capricious” and a reversal of a longstanding policy to prevent internet service providers from blocking or charging websites for faster delivery of content to consumers.The petition to begin the lawsuit, filed in the United States District Court of Appeals in Washington, is the first legal challenge against the F.C.C.’s order in December. Several others are expected, including by public interest groups such as Public Knowledge and Free Press, which argue that the F.C.C.’s order was harmful to consumers and was done hastily and without proper public input.The business that makes Butterfingers and Gobstoppers will find a new home — at Ferrero, the producer of Rocher chocolate — for $2.8 billion in cash.The numbers• The U.S. candy business, which doesn’t include KitKats, generated $900 million in sales in 2016. (That’s roughly 1 percent of Nestlé’s overall revenue that year.)Advertisement• The deal is expected to close by March 31The context: Nestlé said last year that it would explore a sale of the business amid a waning appetite among Americans for candy. The move had been lauded by Dan Loeb’s Third Point, which has put pressure on the food titan to sell off nonessential businesses.The pullquote, from Mark Schneider, Nestlé’s C.E.O.:“With Ferrero we have found an exceptional home for our U.S. confectionery business where it will thrive. At the same time, this move allows Nestlé to invest and innovate across a range of categories where we see strong future growth and hold leadership positions, such as pet care, bottled water, coffee, frozen meals and infant nutrition.”The advisersFor Ferrero: Credit Suisse, Lazard and the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell— Michael J. de la MercedOne of Elliott’s first campaigns of 2018 sees the activist hedge fund going even further abroad: Its latest target is Bezeq, the once-government-owned Israeli telecom company. The phone service provider is up 5 percent as of this morning on the news of Elliott’s investment and public letter to the telecom’s interim chairman, David Granot.The context Bezeq has been under pressure on multiple fronts:• The company has been under pressure from regulators amid an investigation into potential securities violations, including an inquiry into the mogul Shaul Elovitch, who owns 26 percent of the company.• The company’s ownership structure is complicated. Technically, Mr. Elovitch controls Eurocom, which in turn controls Internet Gold, which in tern controls BCom, which in turn controls Bezeq. (Got that?) But Mr. Elovitch has been grappling with debt at Eurocom and is in talks to sell control of that vehicle to another businessman, Naty Saidoff.What Elliott wants• Replacing all directors under scrutiny by Israeli securities regulators, in consultation with shareholders• Simplifying the ownership structure of the companyFrom the hedge fund’s letter to Mr. Granot:As you well know, Bezeq faces compelling business opportunities and significant challenges. The time that passes without stable, impartial ownership and governance is to the detriment of all stakeholders.What could lie aheadBeyond the public pressure that the letter by Paul Singer’s hedge fund will bring, Elliott could also call a special meeting of shareholders to vote on matters like choosing new directors, if it can muster up the support of at least 5 percent of shares. (Elliott said that it currently owns a 4.8 percent economic interest in the company. )— Michael J. de la Merced• It isn’t necessarily the $3.5 billion purchase price that Silver Lake and P2 Capital Partners agreed to pay for the operator of gift card stores.Advertisement• It isn’t necessarily the 24 percent premium over Blackhawk’s Friday closing price that the $45.25-per-share bid represents.• It isn’t even necessarily the nine advisers listed in the press release. (More on that below.)• It’s the $1.7 billion equity check that Silver Lake is writing to support the deal. That’s one of the biggest-ever equity commitments that the $39 billion investment firm has ever made.The backstoryDan Primack has more on the five-year saga over at Axios.The advisersFor Blackhawk: Sandler O’Neill & Partners, Citigroup and the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & KatzFor Silver Lake: Barclays, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and the law firm Simpson Thacher & BartlettFor P2 Capital: The law firm Debevoise & Plimpton— Michael J. de la MercedThe firstQualcomm unveiled its first official “fight letter” in its campaign to beat back Broadcom’s $105 billion bid for the chip maker.Among the highlights of the letter:• Qualcomm says that it will deliver between $6.75 and $7.50 in pro forma earnings per share for its 2019 fiscal year.• A pledge to continue the company’s its cost-savings program.• A reiteration that Broadcom’s offer ignores the upswing that the emerging 5G wireless standard will bring for Qualcomm’s stock.From the letter:Broadcom is asking Qualcomm stockholders to voluntarily transfer to a hostile acquirer the considerable near- and long-term value creation Qualcomm has in front of it. It is attempting to acquire Qualcomm at an opportunistic, inferior price by installing a slate of conflicted Broadcom/Silver Lake nominees with minimal relevant experience.The secondRamius, a money manager that owns stakes in both Qualcomm and NXP Semiconductors, said that it plans to reject Qualcomm’s $110-a-share bid for the smaller chip maker. The firm wants a deal done — but at a higher price.AdvertisementThat follows the declaration of Elliott that NXP was worth $135 a share on a standalone basis.From Ramius’s news release:Should Qualcomm fail to complete its acquisition of NXP, Ramius believes that Qualcomm shareholders will seriously question the ability of Qualcomm to execute its strategy as an independent entity.— Michael J. de la MercedCitigroup said that it earned $3.7 billion in its fourth quarter — if one excludes a $22 billion charge related to the tax overhaul.Here’s a look at its results by the numbers:• $18.3 billion, or $7.15 per share. Citi’s loss in the fourth quarter, including the tax charge. It is the bank’s largest quarterly loss. The new tax law is causing large banks to report big one-time charges to their fourth-quarter results, but the legislation should benefit the banks over time.• $1.28. Its earnings per share excluding the tax hit. That beat the $1.19 expected by Wall Street analysts, according to Thomson Reuters and topped the $1.14 per share earned a year ago.• $17.26 billion. Citi’s revenue for the quarter, which exceeded the $17.01 it generated a year ago.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• $19 billion. The amount of the $22 billion tax charge that came from writing down deferred-tax assets, which companies use to offset future tax bills.• $3 billion. The amount of the tax hit that came from a one-time charge on overseas earnings because of the new tax law.• $2.9 billion. The amount Citi generated in trading revenue, down 19 percent. JPMorgan reported a 17 percent drop on Friday.Advertisement— Stephen GrocerGoldman’s commodity trading revenue fell 75 percent last year, its worst annual performance, Bloomberg reports, citing people familiar with the matter.Goldman’s commodities unit has been under scrutiny both within the bank and among investors since it revealed its second-quarter performance was the worst in its post-IPO history. That triggered an informal review of the unit and several high-profile departures, including global commodities head Gregory Agran.The bank’s commodities earnings in the final three months of 2017 were better than the previous two quarters as losing natural gas trades were closed. Nonetheless, performance at the unit remained lackluster as it cut back risk-taking.Goldman reports earnings tomorrow before the bell.— Stephen GrocerThe Dow Jones industrial average is trading above 26,000 for the first time.It took just seven days for the blue-chip index to go from 25,000 to 26,000. If it closes above that level, it will mark the quickest move from one millennial marker to the next.The previous record was set on Jan. 4 when the Dow finished above 25,000 just 23 trading sessions after surpassing 24,000.Of course, 1,000 point moves aren’t what they used to be. Going from 25,000 to 26,000 is a move of just 4 percent. By comparison, when the index went from 10,000 to 11,000 in 24 days in 1999, it was a rise of 10 percent, points out the WSJ’s Erik Holm.And it’s not just the Dow that is surging this month. The more widely followed Standard & Poor’s 500 index crossed 2,800 this morning and is up more than 4 percent this month. That puts it on pace for its best monthly performance since March 2016, when it was rebounding from the steep sell-off during the first six weeks of that year.In fact, the S.&P. 500 hasn’t experienced a monthly decline since March of last year.— Stephen GrocerIn a letter to investors, the hedge fund manager wrote that his firm had bought shares of Twitter in the fourth-quarter at an average price of $21.59.AdvertisementVia ValueWalk:Despite a massive user base and broad reach, TWTR has an enterprise value of about 2% of Facebook, the largest social media platform. New management improved the TWTR user experience, which led to rapid growth in number of users and time spent on TWTR in 2017. As a result, we believe TWTR will have a pitch to advertisers in 2018, which should lead to revenue growth. Restructuring actions taken over the past year will allow much of the revenue to fall to the bottom line, and we expect TWTR to begin to close some of the 25% margin gap vs. its social media peers. TWTR shares ended the year at $24.01.Shares of Twitter are down about 1 percent to $25.13.— Stephen GrocerWhat’s happening: Larry Fink of BlackRock is sending a letter to C.E.O.s of public companies today saying that they must show how they contribute to society, or risk losing the money-management firm’s support.More from the letter:The public expectations of your company have never been greater. Society is demanding that companies, both public and private, serve a social purpose. To prosper over time, every company must not only deliver financial performance, but also show how it makes a positive contribution to society. Companies must benefit all of their stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, and the communities in which they operate.Without a sense of purpose, no company, either public or private, can achieve its full potential. It will ultimately lose the license to operate from key stakeholders.The leverage: BlackRock has $6 trillion under management, making it the biggest investor in public companies in the world.The context, from Andrew’s latest DealBook column: Mr. Fink’s letter pits the investment mogul “against many of the companies that he’s invested in, which hold the view that their only duty is to produce profits for their shareholders, an argument long espoused by economists like Milton Friedman.”The assessment: Jeff Sonnenfeld of the Yale School of Management told Andrew, “It is huge for an institutional investor to take this position across its portfolio.” Mr. Sonnenfeld added that he’s seen “nothing like it.”More in corporate social activism • Citi said it would measure, publish and address gaps in the pay between male and female employees in the U.S., Britain and Germany, after pressure from an investor. (Bloomberg)Raine — the merchant bank that invested early in Vice and counts Masa Son and Steve Ballmer as clients — has invested in Propagate Content, the studio that produced the first original series for Apple and Twitter. (Propagate’s co-founders are Ben Silverman, once co-chairman of NBC Entertainment, and Howard T. Owens, who was president of National Geographic Channels.)The thesis: That content is more important than ever in an era of online streaming. Raine’s betting that Propagate, which is also turning popular podcasts like “Lore” into streaming series and working on content for Netflix and CBS, can produce hits from a variety of sources and replicate them around the world.The pullquote, from Raine co-founder Joe Ravitch:“These guys think global from the very beginning, and the formats and shows that Ben and Howard have developed are some of the best examples of customizing content to different markets and cultures.”In other media deals:• Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund is in talks to invest more than $500 million in Endeavor, the parent company of WME, as part of its push to diversify the kingdom’s economy, according to unidentified sources. (TheWrap, Bloomberg)Advertisement• Graydon Carter’s first project after Vanity Fair is an investment in Zig, a start-up described as Instagram for news.From the venture capitalist’s blog post from this weekend, which has been making the rounds in Silicon Valley:A few years ago I met with a very successful entrepreneur who built his company outside of the tech sector. When I asked him about equity compensation he said to me “You people in tech are crazy. I pay my employees handsomely in cash and I keep all of the equity for myself.”Mr. Wilson’s bottom line: Stock awards have a real cost — annual dilution of companies’ equity can be as high as 5 percent a year.He adds:We should be confronting the true cost of this practice and asking ourselves if it is best for our employees, and if so, which ones, and if it is best for our companies and our shareholders.The tech and telecom flyaround• By potentially spinning out its Japanese cellphone business, SoftBank could raise as much as $18 billion for deals. (FT)• Kuaishou, a video site backed by Tencent, is seeking a valuation of about $17 billion in its new round of financing. (Bloomberg)Sergio Marchionne, the automaker’s outspoken C.E.O., made it clear that the company won’t sell its Jeep or Ram divisions or otherwise break itself up. But if that idea is “three years ago,” as he said at the Detroit Auto Show, what is his plan to compete with rivals who are diving headlong into autonomous vehicles?From his interview with Bloomberg:“We talk to everybody, and we are continuously learning and making selections on the basis of the best available technology.”Mr. Marchionne also confirmed that this will be his last year leading Fiat Chrysler, with a successor to be named in March.The Detroit Auto Show flyaround• Automakers are celebrating their best ever three-year stretch, but they could be headed for choppier waters. (NYT)• BlackBerry continued its push into the auto industry with a product to help carmakers detect software security flaws. (Bloomberg)That’s an actual question posed in a private forum that was sent to us by a reader this weekend.Your daily reminder of virtual currency prices, courtesy of CoinMarketCap:• Bitcoin is at $12,288, down 11 percent over the past day.Advertisement• Ethereum is at $1,137, down nearly 15 percent.• Ripple is at $1.45, down 22 percent.And your daily dose of virtual currency skepticism, courtesy of Bloomberg:Investors “should be prepared to lose all their money” in Bitcoin, said Steven Maijoor, chairman of the European Securities and Markets Authority, in a Bloomberg TV interview in Hong Kong.The digital money flyaround• The head of Singapore’s central bank said he hoped the technology underpinning Bitcoin and other digital currencies would outlast the current “fever.” (Axios)• Nine hedge funds who had bet on Bitcoin made a 1,167 percent return last year — less than the virtual currency’s return but far more than the 8 percent that the hedge fund industry as a whole generated. (Bloomberg)• China is escalating its cryptocurrency crackdown, and has blocked websites and apps that offer exchange-like services, according to unidentified sources. (Bloomberg)• IBM has teamed up with Moller-Maersk to create a blockchain-based platform for the shipping industry. (Reuters)• TechCrunch got hold of Telegram’s initial coin offering prospectus and learned that the messaging service wants to challenge Ethereum as a platform for services. (TechCrunch)damageWe’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Mr. Bezos is the world’s richest person and can afford virtually any luxury. But obscurity is no longer among them.By NICK WINGFIELD and NELLIE BOWLESJAN. 12, 2018
SEATTLE — Jeff Bezos rubbed elbows last weekend with Halle Berry, Chris Hemsworth and other Hollywood celebrities at an after-party for the Golden Globes. In December, he walked the red carpet, along with Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks, at a screening of “The Post” in Washington.On Friday, Mr. Bezos and his wife, MacKenzie, made public their $33 million donation to a nonprofit that provides college scholarships to so-called Dreamers, young immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children. In October, he received an award for a donation to a marriage equality campaign.Jennifer Cast, an Amazon executive who solicited the donation from him, said at the event that they could have donated anonymously to the campaign. “But just as critical as the money was Jeff’s offer to let us publicly acknowledge their gifts,” she said.“By allowing us to take their donation public,” she added, “the world quickly knew that Jeff Bezos supported marriage equality.”AdvertisementThe appearances and actions are a new look for Mr. Bezos.As he was shaping Amazon into one of the world’s most valuable companies, Mr. Bezos developed a reputation as a brilliant but mysterious and coldblooded corporate titan. He preferred to hunker down in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle, at least partly because he thought it was better for Amazon’s growing business, largely avoiding public causes and the black-tie circuit.But while Mr. Bezos — who at 54 is the world’s richest person, with a net worth of more than $100 billion — can afford virtually any luxury, obscurity is no longer among them.Amazon, now a behemoth valued at more than $600 billion, has become one of the faces of “big tech,” along with Apple, Alphabet’s Google and Facebook. These companies are facing a backlash. Amazon is under the microscope for what critics say is its corrosive effect on jobs and competition, and Mr. Bezos has become a bête noire for President Trump, who repeatedly singles out him and Amazon for scorn on Twitter.“People are starting to get scared of Amazon,” said Steve Case, a co-founder of America Online, who recently started an investment fund focused on start-ups in underserved areas, with Mr. Bezos among its contributors. “If Jeff continues to hang out in Seattle, he’s going to get a lot more incoming. Even for just defense reasons, he has to now play offense.”Mr. Bezos’ portfolio of other ventures has thrust him farther into the spotlight. In October 2013, he bought The Washington Post for $250 million, jump-starting a renaissance of the paper. In 2016, Mr. Bezos bought a $23 million home in Washington, one of the city’s most expensive, which is undergoing extensive renovations to make it a suitable party spot for the city’s political class. Nearby neighbors include former President Barack Obama and his family, and Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner.AdvertisementMr. Bezos’ space start-up, Blue Origin, is also making its efforts more public, giving him another stage. The company is trying to rescue Earth by helping to move pollution-belching heavy industries off the planet.“He’s getting thanked at the Golden Globes and targeted by presidential tweet tantrums — not even Steve Jobs had that kind of pop-culture currency,” said Margaret O’Mara, a professor of history at the University of Washington, who curated a museum exhibit in Seattle endowed by Mr. Bezos.In a statement, Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, said, “Jeff loves what he is doing, at Amazon, Blue Origin and The Washington Post, and he enjoys sharing his enthusiasm in public as he works with the teams to build and invent.”But interviews with more than 30 people who know Mr. Bezos, most of whom declined to be identified to protect their relationships with him, revealed his awareness of the growing opposition to Amazon and his growing comfort with being in the public eye.Mr. Bezos, they said, accepts the probability of greater government scrutiny of Amazon. The chief executive has advised Amazon executives to conduct themselves so that they can pass any legal or regulatory test.The investor Warren E. Buffett, who has known Mr. Bezos since the 1990s, said the cautionary tale of Microsoft, which faced a landmark antitrust case by the government that decade, must loom in Mr. Bezos’ mind. Microsoft, by far the most dominant technology company at the time, lost its footing after the case, opening an unexpected opportunity for competitors.“You’re going to get a lot of scrutiny if you’re disrupting other people’s livelihoods,” Mr. Buffett said.Some of the people who know Mr. Bezos said his new public face was for business expediency. Others believe it is a result of personal growth.AdvertisementBut they all said it was clear that Mr. Bezos and Amazon were trying to go beyond his tech persona to show the world his other sides.Mr. Bezos has always been happy to play the role of Amazon’s chief pitchman, especially when he perceives some benefit to Amazon customers from doing so, people who have worked with him said. He submits to interviews and speaks at events when, for instance, a new company product like the Kindle electronic reader or Echo speaker needs to be explained to the world.But for nearly two decades, he was adamant that the company should largely stay out of the political limelight and not make a stir in local communities. It also had a bare-bones lobbying operation.Even as he was named Time magazine’s person of the year in 1999, he tried to avoid politics. He was even reluctant to do photo opportunities with politicians, standard fare for executives, one longtime former employee said.There were business benefits to staying out of the glare.A hedge fund executive in New York who caught the internet bug early, Mr. Bezos piled into a vehicle with his wife in 1994 with the intention of finding a place to start a business selling books on the internet. He founded Amazon later that year in Seattle, in part because of the growing pool of technical talent Microsoft had brought to the area.But putting his start-up in Washington also meant Amazon would not have to collect sales tax in the country’s most populous states, like California, Texas and New York. Retailers typically have an obligation to collect sales tax in states where they have a physical presence.For a time, for the same reason, the company would not publicly discuss where most of its warehouses were. And Amazon employees in Seattle who planned to travel out of state for work had to submit itineraries for review to avoid triggering unwanted sales tax liabilities.Those efforts would, in turn, give his fledgling company a further price advantage against established physical retailers like Barnes & Noble.AdvertisementIt also meant that, despite its growing legions of customers, Amazon remained almost invisible in politics.By the end of 2012, the company had swelled to more than 88,000 employees and over $61 billion in annual sales, creating huge businesses like its Prime membership service and Amazon Web Services along the way. Yet that year the company was criticized by leaders in Seattle and the news media for being disengaged from civic life compared with stalwarts like Boeing and Starbucks.“I’m not aware of what Amazon does in the community,” Sally Jewell, the chief executive of the retailer R.E.I. at the time, said in The Seattle Times in 2012. “It’s not a name that comes up often in the nonprofit organizations I’m involved with.”With investors, Mr. Bezos gave just enough of a peek at Amazon’s business to win their confidence while saying as little as possible to keep competitors guessing. To this day, Amazon will not disclose exactly how many Kindles, Echoes and other devices it has sold, and for years it refused to reveal financial details about Amazon Web Services, its highly profitable cloud computing business.Despite the paucity of details, investors have sent its stock up more than 1,100 percent over the last decade, dazzled by its growth.A turning point came for Mr. Bezos around 2011 when Amazon faced a public showdown with state governments.At the time, legislators began hounding internet retailers like Amazon to collect sales tax. In California, Amazon initially campaigned to overturn a new law imposing an internet sales tax. But Mr. Bezos backed off after it became clear that Amazon’s image could be tarnished, a former employee involved in the matter said.Instead, Amazon began to make peace. In 2011, it signed an agreement with California to collect sales tax in the state, reaching numerous similar agreements around the same time.As part of those state deals, Amazon began building warehouses across the country, which allowed Amazon to deliver orders more quickly and let local politicians trumpet the arrival of thousands of jobs.AdvertisementSuddenly, a company that once refused to confirm how many employees it had at its Seattle headquarters could not stop talking about how many jobs it was creating. It now has 542,000 employees.As Mr. Bezos and the company talked about creating jobs, though, he and Amazon faced a counternarrative from critics that the company was really a job-killing bully.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Waves of store closings by bricks-and-mortar retailers like Barnes & Noble and Macy’s increased the volume. ”Amazon Must Be Stopped,” read a 2014 New Republic article about the company’s growing market power.That year, a nasty fight over e-book prices with Hachette, the book publisher, solidified Amazon’s reputation for using brass-knuckle tactics. At one point, Amazon slowed delivery times for the publisher’s titles and took other steps to make them less attractive to order.After the matter was resolved, Mr. Bezos told an interviewer that Amazon was simply negotiating hard on behalf of its customers.“It’s very difficult for incumbents who have a sweet thing to accept change,” he said, referring to book publishers.Another blow to the company’s public standing landed in 2015 when The New York Times published a lengthy examination of Amazon’s corporate work culture, which was depicted as an unforgiving environment. “The article doesn’t describe the Amazon I know or the caring Amazonians I work with every day,” Mr. Bezos said in an email to the company’s employees after the article came out.According to two people who work closely with Mr. Bezos, the chief executive became more focused on corporate reputation issues after The Times article and the Hachette uproar.AdvertisementBy late 2015, a few months after Mr. Trump announced his campaign for president, he started his Twitter broadsides against Mr. Bezos, which often coincided with critical coverage of the candidate in The Washington Post.“The @washingtonpost loses money (a deduction) and gives owner @JeffBezos power to screw public on low taxation of @Amazon!” he tweeted in December that year. “Big tax shelter.”Mr. Bezos responded by offering to launch the future president of the United States into space on a Blue Origin rocket.
            The @washingtonpost loses money (a deduction) and gives owner @JeffBezos power to screw public on low taxation of @Amazon! Big tax shelter        
            Finally trashed by @realDonaldTrump. Will still reserve him a seat on the Blue Origin rocket. #sendDonaldtospace https://t.co/9OypFoxZk3 A White House spokesman did not respond to requests for comment.The attention in Washington edged up in June when Amazon announced it was buying Whole Foods Markets. Though Amazon remains a niche player in the grocery business, the deal drove home the power of the company and led some lawmakers to question its power.“The purchase of Whole Foods was a moment when people looked up and recognized this company as a force in the economy,” said Stacy Mitchell, a co-director of the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, a nonprofit advocacy group for local businesses, which has published a critical report on Amazon’s impact on jobs and communities.People who have known Mr. Bezos for a long time say they see a concerted effort by him and Amazon to show more of his personality.He became an active user of Twitter in late 2015, posting a photo of himself wearing his lucky cowboy boots and a video clip of him standing atop a wind turbine in Texas. At an event with his brother in Los Angeles in November, as part of a long lineup of presentations by an array of business, wellness and entertainment leaders, he said his ideal job would be bartender, partly because he enjoys talking to people.“I pride myself on my craft cocktails,” he said.If there’s an image that captures Mr. Bezos at the moment, it’s a picture of him with his biceps bulging out of a polo shirt at a business conference in Idaho from July. “Swole Jeff Bezos” instantly became an internet meme, with one tweet juxtaposing shots of a doughy Mr. Bezos from the late 1990s (caption: “I sell books”) and the brawny 2017 version (“I sell whatever I want”).AdvertisementThe details people are willing to talk about include scraps about his daily routine. On most days, he leaves his lakefront estate in the affluent town of Medina, Wash., for a sparkling new 37-story office tower in Seattle, where he runs Amazon.On Wednesdays, he heads south to an industrial office park in the suburb of Kent, where rockets are assembled for Blue Origin.Every other week, he huddles on conference calls with The Post’s leadership, and twice a year they visit him at his home. He communicates with the newspaper’s top brass with an email list called the Pancakes Group. The Amazon chief once made members of the group flapjacks from a favorite recipe in “Joy of Cooking” on their first visit to his house.“It wasn’t like we went to some billionaire’s house and the help outnumbered the guests,” said Shailesh Prakash, the newspaper’s chief information officer. “He was trying to get the dog off the couch.”Mr. Bezos’ more public-facing work was abetted by a management change nearly two years ago at Amazon, when he put Jeff Wilke in charge of its consumer business and Andy Jassy in charge of cloud computing. That freed him up to devote more time to The Post and Blue Origin, though he remains deeply engaged at Amazon, dedicating most of his time to initiatives that are two to four years away from hitting the market.Mr. Bezos has also pushed using publicity to the company’s advantage. In September, he masterminded the company’s splashy search for a place to locate a second headquarters. In the hoopla, Amazon highlighted the jobs it planned to create with the move — up to 50,000 total — and spurred a horde of towns, from Dallas to Boston, to apply.In the future, that means Mr. Bezos will most likely be a more familiar presence in Washington. Mr. Bezos now visits Washington about 10 times a year, dropping in at The Post for forums, discussions with engineers and meals with journalists. In the capital’s stately Kalorama neighborhood, just off Massachusetts Avenue’s row of embassies, renovations are proceeding on his home — two combined properties that used to be the city’s Textile Museum.Mr. Bezos plans to host salon-style dinners at the house, drawing inspiration from the celebrated dinner parties thrown by Katharine Graham, the former publisher of The Post, for the city’s movers and shakers from both parties. Mr. Bezos is known for asking his dinner guests to stick to a single conversation topic at a time to keep people from splintering off into private side discussions.Advertisement“It’s a very big house,” said Martin Baron, the executive editor of The Post. “I hope he has a party for us in the house.”Sally Quinn, a longtime Post writer and an arbiter of the city’s social mores, said she had no firsthand knowledge of Mr. Bezos’ plans for his home. But she praised the idea of attempting to bring together guests from across the political spectrum.“There’s really no one who is doing that kind of thing in Washington right now,” said Ms. Quinn, who bumped into Mr. Bezos recently at the screening of “The Post.” “It would be like a throwback to the old days.”“I think Jeff,” she said, “is the only person who could do that.”Nick Wingfield reported from Seattle, and Nellie Bowles from San Francisco. Brooks Barnes contributed reporting from Los Angeles, and Cecilia Kang from Washington. Doris Burke contributed research.Follow Nick Wingfield and Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @nickwingfield and @NellieBowlesA version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page BU1 of the New York edition with the headline: Hello, My Name Is Jeff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.With Andrew Ross SorkinJAN. 5, 2018
Good Friday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Here’s what to expect this earnings season.• How many rate increases next year?• Spotify’s chief content officer is exiting ahead of its I.P.O.• How soft was the jobs report?• Spotify’s chief content officer is exiting ahead of its I.P.O.• What are the odds of the markets continuing to rise?• Fitbit makes its first start-up investment.Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.Last year’s rally has shown few signs of slowing down in 2018. If anything, the record run in stocks appears to be gaining momentum.AdvertisementThe Dow Jones industrial average just recorded its best start to the year since 2003, reports the WSJ. Having just surpassed 25,000 on Thursday, the blue-chip is already more than a quarter of the way to 26,000.AdvertisementThe Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 2.6 percent after posting four straight records during the holiday-shortened week. That was its best start to a year since 2006.Tech stocks surged 4.2 percent to begin the New Year.Fourth-quarter earnings season kicks off next week with JPMorgan, Wells Fargo & Co. and BlackRock all reporting Friday. Here’s what Wall Street analysts are expecting, courtesy of FactSet.• Analysts expect companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index to report profits rose 10.5 percent from a year ago, according to FactSet.• All 11 sectors are forecast to report earnings growth.• The index’s energy companies are expected to show the biggest jump, up 132 percent. That increase is largely a result of the continued rebound in oil prices. The two-year free-fall in oil prices that began in 2014 decimated the bottom line of energy companies, but since the second half of last year, the sector’s profits have been rebounding.• If analysts forecast for earnings prove correct, it will mark the third quarter in the past four that the S.&P. 500 has posted double-digit gains in earnings.• Sales are forecast to grow 6.7 percent.Most Federal Reserve officials expect to raise rates three times this year. A number of private economists, including Goldman Sachs’s Jan Hatzius, are forecasting four.The market, meanwhile, has priced in only two. The Fed, though, could surprise investors to the upside, writes Christopher Beddor of Breakingviews.“December’s relatively weak jobs and wage growth figures give policymakers a breather. But with 2.1 million jobs created in 2017 and unemployment nearing historically low levels, long-awaited wage rises — along with new tax cuts — might soon bring the prospect of higher inflation on the agenda.”AdvertisementMr. Beddor added:“The question is how much tighter the job market can get before pulling wages, and inflation, higher. Minutes from the December FOMC meeting, released this week, suggest some members worry tighter labor market conditions could start feeding into inflation. The readout also showed uncertainty about the extent that tax cuts might stimulate the economy and boost prices. Already companies including AT&T, American Airlines and Wells Fargo have announced bonuses or wage increases after President Donald Trump signed the cuts into law last month.”Recode’s Peter Kafka reports that “Stefan Blom, Spotify’s chief content officer, announced his departure via an internal memo Friday.”The NYT and others reported earlier this week that Spotify had filed confidentially with the Securities and Exchange Commission to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange in the first quarter of this year.Via Recode:“The timing of Blom’s exit may raise questions for investors as they look at Spotify.“Last year, the executive helped Spotify secure critical licenses with the big music labels that paved the way for the company’s IPO. But he has also been in charge of the company’s attempted push into video, which has stopped and started a few times without gaining traction.”• F.B.I. agents have renewed asking questions about the dealings of the Clinton Foundation amid calls from President Trump and top Republicans for the Justice Department to take a fresh look at politically charged accusations of corruption. (NYT)• The first known criminal referral has emerged from Congress’s Russia inquiries. The target is the author of the Trump-Russia dossier. (NYT)• The nation’s political and financial capitals have never felt so far apart. Washington is kicking off the new year with a fresh round of Trump-fueled chaos. On Wall Street, meanwhile, the sky hardly seems the limit. (WaPo)• Gary Cohn told Bloomberg TV that the Trump administration may try to block potential plans by high-tax states including New York and California to shield residents from state and local tax break changes. (Bloomberg)• American cannabis startups raised a record amount of venture capital last year, with 69 companies snaring nearly $274 million. (Axios)• Netflix shares jumped 1.4 percent to an all-time high after the video-streaming service announced a Jan. 12 premiere for the new show from longtime talk-show host David Letterman. (FastFt)Advertisement• Lionel Messi has written a clause into his contract with FC Barcelona allowing him to leave the team if Catalan independence means he can’t play top-league soccer. (Bloomberg)• Berkshire Hathaway’s Class A shares closed above $300,000 for the first time Thursday, marking a new record for the world’s most expensive stock. Here are some items you can buy from Berkshire businesses for the price of one A share. (MoneyBeat)The headline number of 148,000 jobs added came in well below the 198,000 expected by Wall Street economists. But don’t read too much into the miss. The trend remains strong. The United States economy has added jobs for 87 straight months, an unparalleled run, and the unemployment rate remained at a 17-year low.On top of all that, the number may be revised upward in the coming months. Joe Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM, writes:“The details of the data does leave some doubt that the first estimate of job creation in December, in particular the estimate that retail hiring declined by 20,000 during the holiday shopping season and a decline of 10,000 in trade and transport. Thus we think that there will be material upward revisions to the BLS estimate when the next monthly data is published. Outside of the two aforementioned categories, job creation was strong across the board.”But this jobs report was all about wages, and growth there remained lackluster. Year over year, earnings increased by around 2.5 percent.“We expect a clear upturn over the first half of this year, but it isn’t happening yet,” wrote Ian Shepherdson, chief economist of Pantheon Macroeconomics.This mysterious lack of earnings growth has helped provide cover for Federal Reserve officials to slowly raise rates.So what does this mean to the Fed’s rate plan? “At the margin, this report reduces the odds of a March rate hike, but two more reports are due before the FOMC meeting, by which time these numbers will be ancient history,” wrote Mr. Shepherdson.Fitbit is investing $6 million into Sano, which is developing a patch to track a person’s blood sugar level, reported Christina Farr of CNBC.AdvertisementThe move could help Fitbit reverse declining sales. Via CNBC:“Building blood-sugar tracking into a future device could dramatically increase the market for Fitbit devices since more than 100 million Americans are now living with diabetes or pre-diabetes, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Fitbit has recently suffered declining sales: It sold 3.6 million devices in the quarter ended Sept. 30, down from 5.3 million a year earlier.Keeping pace with Apple: Last month The New York Times reported that device manufacturers are tapping into new features on the Apple Watch to develop medical accessories. Apple is also looking for its own medical breakthroughs, such as a noninvasive continuous glucose reader, the NYT reported.David Tepper of Appaloosa Management thinks so, telling CNBC:“Explain to me where this market is rich? It’s not rich with the tax thing that just changed earnings projections. With earnings forecasts going up and interest rates where they are, how is this market expensive? I don’t see the overvaluation. World growth is higher.”A dissenting voice: The market historian James Stack told Jim Stewart of the NYT: “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt.”The next thing to look out for: It’s Jobs Friday today. A Reuters survey of economists expects the nonfarm payroll report to show a gain of 190,000 for December.Legal experts are poring over the question, after a report by Mike Schmidt of the NYT that President Trump told the White House’s top lawyer to stop Jeff Sessions recusing himself from the Russia investigation.From Mr. Schmidt’s story:Legal experts said that of the two primary issues Mr. Mueller appears to be investigating — whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice while in office and whether there was collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia — there is currently a larger body of public evidence tying the president to a possible crime of obstruction.But the experts are divided about whether the accumulated evidence is enough for Mr. Mueller to bring an obstruction case.About that Michael Wolff book:  “Fire and Fury” is to go on sale today, ahead of schedule — and despite legal threats from Mr. Trump.So a steady drip of excerpts — from Steve Bannon calling a meeting between Donald Trump Jr. and Russians “treasonous” to the former adviser suggesting that money laundering charges were in the offing — is about to become a flood.The most damaging may be the book’s descriptions of Mr. Trump’s erratic behavior and of aides’ private contempt for their boss. Many Washington reads are underway (you start in the index, looking for your name).The firestorm has also propelled Mr. Wolff from local media gadfly into national newsmaker.The fallout for Mr. Bannon: Rebekah Mercer, the adviser’s longtime benefactor, disavowed him in a rare public statement. And Breitbart’s board members have debated whether to oust him as the media organization’s chairman, according to the WSJ, citing unnamed sources.AdvertisementAbout that money-laundering accusation: Tim O’Brien of Bloomberg View says that Mr. Bannon’s allegation is as serious as any claim of “treason.”The Washington flyaround• Mr. Trump may have dismantled his voter fraud commission, but he wasn’t happy about it. (NYT)Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Bipartisan talks on protecting the young immigrants known as Dreamers are starting to fray amid disagreements on a border wall and other immigration policies. (Politico)• Ajit Pai, the chairman of the F.C.C., canceled his speaking appearance at the Consumer Electronics Show, citing death threats, according to unnamed sources. (Recode)Already, its decision to let prosecutors more freely enforce federal law against the drug has taken its toll on publicly traded pot-related companies.• Shares in Scotts Miracle-Gro, whose C.E.O. has courted marijuana growers, dropped as much as 5 percent yesterday.• Those in Cannabis Sativa Inc., which produces edibles and other pot-related products, plunged 24 percent.• And shares in GrowGeneration, a cannabis farming company, fell 21 percent.It’s a shocking turnaround, too. Cannabis-related shares had rallied this week as California began recreational marijuana sales.AdvertisementThe response• Senator Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado, threatened to hold up Justice Department appointments.• The head of California’s Bureau of Cannabis Control, Lori Ajax, said the state was legalizing as planned.Weekend pot reading: If you’re a budding cannabis entrepreneur and need financing, you’ll probably have to turn to a small credit union outside Denver.Yes, corporations like Apple will have to repatriate overseas earnings under the new code. And the tax analyst David Zion estimates that they will pay some $235 billion.But he also reckons that the new repatriation treatment alone is worth $500 billion more compared with the old law. And analysts in general think the overhaul will help corporate America.As J. Richard Harvey, a Villanova law professor, told Jesse Drucker of the NYT, multinationals have sought a change like this for over a decade:“We wouldn’t have the legislation if they didn’t want it.”Energy companies, obviously. And the president of the National Ocean Industries Association, Randall Luthi, called the offshore leasing proposal “bold and broad.”But investor reaction yesterday was fairly muted: American depositary receipts in Royal Dutch Shell and BP, for instance, each rose less than 1 percent.What the proposal will doFrom Lisa Friedman of the NYT:The plan would give the energy industry broad access to drilling rights in most parts of the outer continental shelf, including Pacific waters near California, Atlantic waters near Maine and the eastern Gulf of Mexico.Interior Department Secretary Ryan Zinke had a simpler explanation: “We’re going to become the strongest energy superpower.”AdvertisementWhat it won’tImmediately green-light drilling.Who’s opposedEnvironmental activists, obviously. But also nearly a dozen governors, including the Republicans Chris Christie of New Jersey and Rick Scott of Florida.That is, if he follows through on his plan to sell about 29 percent of his stake in Uber to a group led by SoftBank, as Bloomberg reports. (We hear that the report is accurate.)What he stands to make: about $1.4 billion.More from Eric Newcomer of Bloomberg:Kalanick, who owns 10 percent of the company, had offered to sell as much as half of his stake — the maximum board members were allowed to tender. He had to pare back the amount because of limits outlined in the agreement between Uber and the buyers, the people said.The tech flyaround• Intel struggled for months to address Meltdown, one of two computer chip security flaws that came to light this week. Apple said that nearly all of its computing devices, including iPhones, were vulnerable and that it was issuing updates. (WSJ)• What you can do to protect your devices against the flaws. Briefly: Update! (NYT)• A close look at Iran’s hackers, who have begun cyberespionage campaigns against the U.S. and others. (NYT)• China’s internet users increasingly want privacy. Their government wants more data and more control. (NYT)• Mark Zuckerberg’s 2018 personal goal: “fix” Facebook. He’s also looking closely at encryption and digital currencies. (Reuters)• Don’t rush to regulate A.I., Andrew Burt, the chief privacy officer of the data management company Inmuta, writes in an NYT Op-Ed. (NYT)A deal is reportedly close, according to the WSJ, citing unnamed people. But the eventual buyer is expected to pay less than $500 million, and shareholders like the Weinsteins, the advertising giant WPP and SoftBank could be wiped out. (Remember that Tom Barrack’s Colony Capital had agreed to buy the embattled studio, but backed out.)AdvertisementWho’s in the running, according to Ben Fritz and Keach Hagey of the WSJ:The bidders include a group led by businesswoman Maria Contreras-Sweet; production company Killer Content working with philanthropist Abigail Disney; studio Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.; and investment firms Vine Alternative Investments and Shamrock Capital Investments.The media flyaround • Disney’s proposed acquisition of Fox assets has raised questions about the future for Fox’s television properties, including, “Am I going to have to put Mickey Mouse in ‘American Horror Story’?” (NYT)• Newsroom employees at the L.A. Times began voting on unionization yesterday. (NYT)• H. Brandt Ayers, the former publisher of The Anniston Star in Alabama, resigned on Thursday as chairman of the newspaper’s parent company after admitting to spanking a reporter in the 1970s. (NYT)• Jimmy Iovine will leave Apple in August, roughly four years after he and Dr. Dre sold Beats to the tech giant. (Hits)• Neiman Marcus’s C.E.O., Karen Katz, plans to step aside, according to unnamed people, as the luxury retailer struggles with weak sales growth and heavy debts. (WSJ)• Hassim Dhoda, a senior money manager at Moore Capital Management, will leave Louis Bacon’s hedge fund to start his own firm. His old boss is investing. (Bloomberg)• Sprint named Michel Combes, the C.E.O. of Altice until two months ago, as its new chief financial officer. (FT)“This is crypto, and everyone in the industry is now slinging crack crypto cocaine to retail addicts.”— The analyst Ryan Selkis on the digital currency craze that briefly made the C.E.O. of Ripple  richer than Mark Zuckerberg.• Brookfield bet $4.6 billion on Westinghouse, which faces few major competitors while building nuclear reactors is out of fashion. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• Insurers are set to pay out a record $135 billion on losses from natural disasters in 2017, according to Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer. (NYT)• Brendan Byrne, who as governor of New Jersey governor brought in the state’s first income tax, died on Thursday. (NYT)• HNA has walked away from late-stage negotiations for a stake in Value Partners Group, a Hong Kong fund house, according to people with knowledge of the matter. (Bloomberg)• Google led a $120 million investment to help the Chinese online gaming platform Chushou reach more overseas viewers. (Reuters)• Aurora, a self-driving car start-up, agreed to supply technology to the Volkswagen Group and Hyundai. (NYT)• The owner of Quiksilver surfwear has agreed to buy Billabong for $315 million, according to a person familiar with the situation. (WSJ)• The private equity firm Silver Lake has agreed to buy a majority stake in the online education company Weld North Education from K.K.R. (WSJ)Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE NEW YORK TIMESJAN. 22, 2018
The Reader Center is one way we in the newsroom are trying to connect with you, by highlighting your perspectives and experiences and offering insight into how we work.When we solicited questions last month for our new publisher, A. G. Sulzberger, our readers responded in droves — to the tune of some 2,500 submissions. You’ll find his responses to a curated selection below. (Some questions have been condensed and edited for clarity.)_____Before I answer your questions, I want to share a bit about my background.I got my start as a reporter at newspapers in Rhode Island and Oregon before joining The New York Times as a metro reporter in 2009. I went on to cover the Midwest as Kansas City bureau chief, where I wrote about crime, government and many tornadoes and floods.But my favorite stories were the ones that were built around memorable characters or that came out of discovering something unexpected: a look at the 103-year-old federal judge who took the notion of lifetime appointments to the extreme; the strange saga of one of England’s most infamous bank robbers; an examination of how the internet weaponized small-town gossip; a story about how a community in rural Kansas became the last place on earth to develop Kodachrome film (which was turned into a movie last year).AdvertisementMost recently, while working as an editor, I wrote this 7,000-word tale about two hang glider pilots battling to set the world record for longest flight.AdvertisementIn 2013, my work shifted to helping craft the strategy for The Times as a whole, after I led a team that produced a report calling on the newsroom to accelerate our digital transformation.Since then, I’ve been working with colleagues across the company to answer an essential question: How can The Times hold on to the best of our journalistic traditions while also evolving to meet the changing needs of our readers and taking advantage of powerful new ways to find and tell stories? Though we’ve made a lot of progress in the last couple of years, that question remains a focus in my new role as publisher.And now for the questions …_____What exactly is the role of a newspaper publisher?— Long, in San AntonioSeems like a good question to kick this off.At the highest level, a publisher oversees a news organization’s journalism and business operations. This means I am responsible for ensuring that our journalism is worth your time and money, and that we have a strong strategy for our long-term commercial success in a moment of pressure and change in our industry.But to me, Adolph Ochs, my great-great-grandfather and our first publisher, captured the spirit of the role best: “To maintain the editorial independence and the integrity of The New York Times and to continue it as an independent newspaper, entirely fearless, free of ulterior influence and unselfishly devoted to the public welfare.”_____How do you win the battle with “fake news” and reach those who believe The New York Times is biased?— Cristina Chan, in San FranciscoThis is a really important — and tricky — question, and one that I think about a lot.Powerful forces are stoking distrust in the news media with attacks on the press and sowing confusion by promoting clickbait, rumor, fraudulent stories and propaganda. This has been driven in no small part by various politicians and technology platforms pursuing their short-term interests over the greater good. These tactics contribute to growing polarization and undermine trust in news organizations.AdvertisementIt will be hard for a single institution to counteract these forces, but we’re determined to try. (I’m encouraged that some leaders in Washington and Silicon Valley seem to be recognizing that they need to do their part.)The best thing we at The Times can do is stay true to our mission of finding and telling the stories that matter, without fear or favor. I believe that our rapidly growing number of readers and subscribers is a testament to how people increasingly crave news they can trust. I also believe we still have more to do to help people understand why they should trust our journalism and to provide greater transparency into our reporting.In the past, our approach was to let our work speak for itself. Our assumption was that people intuitively understood all the hard work that goes into a New York Times article. But we’ve learned we need to do more to explain how our reporting works. For example, many readers don’t know that a dateline from a foreign city means our reporters are physically in that place, on the ground seeing and hearing firsthand everything they’re reporting. They don’t know that Adam Liptak’s Supreme Court reporting is made stronger by his experience as a lawyer, or that Sheri Fink’s background as a physician informs her investigations into medical misconduct. And they don’t know that for every person we quote in a story, sometimes dozens more have been interviewed.On the flip side, I look at articles like Ellen Barry’s heartbreaking tale of a woman murdered in India, C. J. Chivers’s deeply empathetic examination of a Marine’s unraveling after returning from war, or the investigation Malachy Browne led into how Americans were attacked by a foreign leader’s security detail — all are great examples of the balance between classic journalistic storytelling and sharing helpful context about how we actually found and reported that story. (And it should be no surprise that when we do this well, it has a real, meaningful impact.)The more we can show readers the thoughtfulness, thoroughness, expertise and rigor that go into everything we cover, the better. (I address the concern about bias in more detail below.)_____How can ordinary people help support The New York Times’s important work?— Margo Wixsom, in Inverness, Calif.Unlike most news organizations, The Times gets the majority of its revenue directly from readers like you. So the best way to support our work is by subscribing — and by encouraging your friends and family to do the same. If you’re feeling extra generous, you can buy a gift subscription or sponsor student subscriptions to help the next generation learn the value of engaging with the world through quality journalism.But I’d also encourage everyone who is able to support your local news organizations as well. They do essential work and are feeling real pressure right now.Advertisement_____Will you bring back the position of public editor? Eliminating that position decreases your responsibility to the public for accuracy and fairness.— Paul Kingsley, in RochesterOur responsibility to ensure the accuracy and fairness of our work will never change. As I said in my note to readers this month, your trust is the most important asset we have.So why eliminate the role of public editor?The public editor was created in a different era to act as an intermediary between our readers and our journalists. Sometimes it worked, sometimes it didn’t. But today there are faster, more effective and more transparent ways to receive and respond to feedback.My view is that if readers have significant concerns about a particular story or how we’ve covered a broader topic, we should engage with them directly and openly.That’s part of the reason we introduced the Reader Center and why we’re doing things like this Q. and A. In the old model, the public editor would have sat down with the new publisher, asked a few questions of her choosing and written a short article based on my responses. In the new model, I’m hearing your questions directly and you’re hearing my answers directly. (As part of this process, every question submitted by readers was reviewed by editors, who selected those that captured the most common areas of interest and concern.)If you’re worried that The Times no longer faces real scrutiny, check out the president’s tweets. In all seriousness, our work is even more closely watched and there are more ways to raise questions and concerns than ever before. Social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook have given readers the ability to immediately raise questions and concerns, as has our comments section. Just as important, we’re covered every day by other news organizations around the world. And we are one of the few places anywhere to still have a significant, full-time operation dedicated to editorial standards, reader complaints and corrections._____As one of the few papers with national clout left, how will The New York Times work to improve the coverage of the rest of the country?— Matt, in MichiganThis is a great question.I got my start at local newspapers like The Press Democrat in Santa Rosa, Calif.; The Providence Journal in Rhode Island; and The Oregonian. I know firsthand that local newsrooms play an essential role in providing the information and insights that bind a community together, and the accountability that prevents leaders from abusing their power.AdvertisementBut the pressures local newsrooms face are immense. The number of working journalists in this country has declined by more than half since 2000, and those who remain are increasingly concentrated in a few places like New York, Washington and California. These trends carry profound risks for our democracy.Though there are no easy answers, The Times is deeply committed to finding ways to support robust coverage throughout the United States.The most concrete evidence of this commitment is our decision to expand our national reporting staff. We now have journalists living in every part of the country who spend their time crisscrossing their states and regions for stories that aren’t being told. (As I mentioned above, I had the great fortune of doing one of these jobs myself as a correspondent based in the Kansas City bureau — though being a vegetarian there admittedly had its challenges.)We’re also looking for ways to support local journalism. One example is our partnerships with local news organizations like The Times-Picayune in New Orleans. But there is much more to do and we’re actively thinking about other ways to contribute._____How do you respond to the view that The New York Times has a liberal bias?— Ron Caton, in Alamo, Calif.There is nothing we take more seriously than the fairness, accuracy and independence of our journalism.That’s not to say our journalists never have opinions. But just as a judge is expected to set aside personal views to ensure the integrity of a trial, our journalists are expected to do the same to ensure the integrity of their journalism. My colleagues in the newsroom work hard at this, and it’s one of the reasons The Times has such strict standards and rigorous editing.Our job is to follow the truth, wherever it leads, and to bring information to light — not to tell people how to think.AdvertisementNow more than ever, it is vital for our pages to feature stories and columns that reflect a diversity of views and that challenge readers to consider perspectives very different from their own. Making sure our report explores multiple angles on the biggest stories is a critical part of our mission to remain nonpartisan in these polarized times.Do we sometimes fall short? Of course. This is a human enterprise. But I think some complaints about bias — both from the right and the left — are rooted in a misunderstanding of our core journalistic role. And some complaints, more cynically, simply seek to discredit reporting that may prove unflattering or damaging to certain interests.Our commitment to independent, unbiased journalism is one of the things that makes The Times special. As publisher, I’m determined to maintain this approach, and I know our journalists embrace that responsibility with a fierce sense of purpose._____After the 2016 election, I canceled my 15-year-old New York Times subscription. I would like to come back, but I need some sort of accounting for your editorial decisions during the 2016 election.In particular, your coverage of the Clinton email scandal and Trump-Russia seems inexplicable in hindsight. I get that you assumed Clinton would win, but the race was always pretty close. Meanwhile, obvious stories, like Trump’s business connections abroad, were totally ignored.The overall tone of the coverage seems inexplicable. Some sort of context for these decisions is needed in order to rebuild my loss of trust in your judgment about what to maximize and what to leave out.— Heather, in New York CityI hear you, and I’ve heard from others who were upset, too. And I don’t want to in any way diminish that concern, but I do want to put it into a broader context.It’s impossible to have aggressive, skeptical coverage of candidates for public office without upsetting some of their supporters. Hillary Clinton was upset with our coverage. So were Bernie Sanders and a host of Republican candidates, from Marco Rubio to Ted Cruz. Then there is Donald J. Trump, who has had, as you may have noticed, pretty unending complaints of his own.AdvertisementNo news organization reported more aggressively and deeply on Mr. Trump during the campaign than The Times. We broke stories about his personal finances, his treatment of women, his record of not telling the truth, his business ties with questionable foreign interests and much more. Our coverage of Russia’s attempts to interfere in the election was part of a broader series on covert Russian influence that won a Pulitzer Prize for international reporting.And sometimes even the most observant Times readers do not remember that, during the campaign, we wrote extensively about Mrs. Clinton’s biography, her civil rights work, her economic policy, and her advocacy on behalf of victims of gun violence.Now, to be clear, I’m not suggesting that we embrace a kind of false equivalency — I’m skeptical of the old line that “if everyone’s mad, then we’re doing our jobs.” But I am saying that our most important function is to report aggressively and to arm readers with the information they need to make their own decisions, rather than to promote any single outcome.It surprises some readers to know that the same reporter who broke the story about Mrs. Clinton’s private email server when she was secretary of state also broke the big stories last year about why Mr. Trump fired James Comey and the president’s efforts to shut down the federal investigation into Michael Flynn.Our approach may strike some as old-fashioned. But we believe it’s the most important role the news media can play in supporting a healthy democratic society.I’m always sorry when readers feel let down by our coverage. We work hard every day to earn your trust. We have devoted tremendous reporting resources since the election to examining every part of this political moment — the anger, the divisions, the rise of both anti- and pro-Trump activism.These are crucial stories for us and, we think, for the country. And I think if you began reading The Times again, you would find that coverage deep and insightful and informative. I very much hope you’ll return as a subscriber in the future._____As a longtime subscriber, my faith in The Times was deeply shaken when the Hillary numbers we saw every day leading up to the election turned out to be so incredibly off the mark. It was 82/18, 84/16; Hillary was going to dominate. After Trump won I kept asking myself how my dear New York Times could have gotten it so wrong.AdvertisementWhat kinds of things will you do in the future to improve the accuracy of these types of polls?— Andy F., in VietnamBecause I’m not a polling expert, I asked Amanda Cox, who as the editor of The Upshot oversees much of this coverage, for her insight. She responded to your question about how something with 16 percent odds — in this case Mr. Trump winning the presidency — could have happened:Sixteen percent is like rolling a die and looking for a three to come up. If it happened, you might feel surprised — chances were against you — but you wouldn’t feel like the entire system was broken.But I also understand that lots of our readers do feel let down, and that saying it was probability, not prophecy, doesn’t help them …I still believe that “What do all these polls mean?” is basically a noble question, and that models are a rigorous and disciplined way to think about it.I personally think polls can provide useful information and insight. But regardless of where you come down on that issue, I can assure you that our editors are actively examining the lessons from the last election and are committed to using those insights to update our approach.We’re going to do more to ensure we provide sufficient context to make sense of the polls and their limitations. (If you’re interested in reading a bit more, David Leonhardt, a Times opinion columnist and the founding editor of The Upshot, recently wrote a column on this subject.)_____How can The Times keep climate-change issues at the forefront of the news? Why is climate change not discussed when you have the opportunity to interview President Trump?— Ryan Young, in San FranciscoClimate change is one of the most important stories of our time, and The Times is invested in covering it deeply and fully.Last year, we created a new desk dedicated to showing how global climate shifts are driving economic, social and political changes and affecting the lives of people everywhere.Our approach is to tell those stories in as many ways as we can. We’ve often turned to visuals because showing can be more powerful than telling, particularly when the science can be dense and complicated, and the scale of these challenges can make them feel abstract.Our interactive graphics have revealed how quickly ice is melting in Antarctica, how extreme heat is spreading around the globe and how Alaska’s permafrost is thawing. We’ve used drone video to capture vivid portraits of places like Jakarta, Indonesia, where we showed how the city is sinking so rapidly that it may soon be underwater. In a year marked by a surge of extreme weather like heat waves, hurricanes and wildfires, we used explanatory video to help explain the underlying science.AdvertisementAt the same time, our reporters have been aggressively covering the Trump administration’s actions on climate, like the push to roll back environmental regulations and how that benefits the oil and gas industry. Eric Lipton and Lisa Friedman have been doing remarkable work investigating the changes at the Environmental Protection Agency. Throughout all this, we have asked tough questions about these topics in interviews with the president and members of his administration — we’ve even taken the administration to court to force them to release information — and we will continue to do so._____How do you plan to face the enormous pressure your president is putting on those who independently criticize him in the U.S.? — Marco A. Silva Mendoza, in Mexico CityThe same way we face all pressure: through independent, deeply reported and scrupulously fair journalism, without fear or favor._____I love The Times’s news coverage, but I’m chagrined to find so many typographical errors in your articles. Please, can you bring your copy editors back? The errors distract from the stories.— Lisl Christie, in Santa Rosa, Calif.First, allow me to correct the record a bit. While we no longer have a separate copy-desk operation, the majority of our copy editors are still on staff, and still editing copy. But we did significantly change our editing system for the first time in many decades, for two reasons.First, we felt our editing systems and processes needed to be updated to meet the evolving needs of an increasingly digitally focused newsroom. Second, in recent years, largely because of uneven staff turnover, the number of editors had grown significantly larger in relation to the number of reporters, and it was necessary to rebalance a bit so we could put more reporters in the field.Many people, both inside and outside the Times building, were upset with the changes. I understand that. It’s been hard to shift how we work, and it was painful to say goodbye to some longtime colleagues. But as the world changes, The Times must change, too.As for any mistakes you’re seeing: Every week we publish about the number of words you’ll find in the complete works of William Shakespeare. Despite considerable efforts, it’s inevitable that some typos, misspellings and grammatical errors will make their way into our report. We’re tracking the effects of our new editing system closely, and the changes have indeed resulted in a modest uptick of such errors. As we continue to refine our systems, we remain confident that the errors will decrease over the coming months.AdvertisementFinally, it’s worth saying that even with the editing changes, The Times has the largest and best trained staff of editors of any newspaper. Every piece of journalism we publish is read carefully by at least two experienced editors. I believe that if you compare our pages with those of other news organizations, you’ll find that ours display the highest standards of quality.That said, we know our readers rightfully have incredibly high expectations, and we will continue to strive to do better._____I’m worried about the future of the printed version of your paper. I subscribe online (because I can’t get daily delivery), but I also purchase the Friday paper at a newsstand and get the Sunday paper through home delivery. Although you can’t foretell the future, what would cause The Times to abandon its printed form, especially outside the New York City area?— Andy Candor, in Fort Wayne, Ind.I get asked this question all the time, which is a reminder of how much people still love the experience of reading the printed newspaper. And it’s easy to understand why — curling up on the couch with the Sunday paper is one of the highlights of my week.The good news is that with a million deeply loyal subscribers, we expect the print paper to be around for a long, long time. Though many newspapers have cut back on print, we’ve gone the opposite direction — adding new special sections like Puzzle Mania!, The New York Times for Kids and The Lost Children of Tuam.My advice would be to ignore the predictions of the end of print — we’ve been hearing them for more than two decades now and the paper is still going strong._____I am a senior citizen who has been reading The Times for more years than I can count! I look forward to this on a daily basis. However, I cannot afford the price increases! I have had to cut back to Sunday only, and read on my iPad.Why are you offering new subscribers a discount, and not thinking about people like myself, who have supported you and your paper for years?— June Laben, in Stamford, Conn.AdvertisementThank you for your being such a loyal reader, and I’m truly sorry to hear that the print edition is becoming too expensive for you. Maybe it will help to explain why newspaper prices have been rising and where your subscription dollars go.Basically, it’s as simple as this: Great journalism is really expensive, and right now we rely on subscriptions to pay for this important work.We employ more than 1,450 journalists who scour the world for the most important stories and then bring them to life in the most creative and compelling ways. We put reporters on the ground in more than 150 countries every year.We maintain a full-time presence in dangerous places like Iraq and Afghanistan and support journalists doing hard and important work covering war, natural disasters and genocide.We employ experts in countless fields — our staff includes people with backgrounds in law, medicine, business, science, economics, statistics, the military and more — whose skills, training and experiences allow them to bring you information and insights others can’t.We’re also one of the few news organizations that still give reporters months to dig into a single story — I’m not sure there is anywhere else where a reporter would be given 18 months to chronicle the life of one homeless girl.As print advertising has declined, we’ve had to find new ways to support all of this hard and expensive work. Fortunately, our readers have largely been willing to fill that gap. Ultimately, for less than the cost of a subway ride each day, a print subscription brings you stories and insights from every corner of the globe — so I hope that when you do pay for The Times, you’ll never question the value you’re getting.Thank you again for reading and supporting what we do._____The Times has covered more issues and given more space and images to people of color and women in its coverage this past year. But many times the coverage is from white people. (For example, in a feature about recipes for Kwanzaa during the holiday, the only African-American cook represented wasn’t even alive anymore!)AdvertisementWill the journalists, editors, illustrators and photographers employed to do work for The Times be representative of the growing population of black, brown and female Americans and be more representative in your leadership beyond a few examples?If your staff and folks that work for you do not represent the nation’s evolving demographics, you are not doing enough. I would hope you would move into the 21st century with regards to your hiring policies and who is represented by and in your media. Will you?— Folayemi Wilson, in ChicagoDiversity is front of mind for me as I step into this new role. And that’s not just for moral reasons; it’s because our mission is to help people understand the world, which means our report must be informed by a wide range of backgrounds, lived experiences and perspectives.In general, I’m proud of our record on diversity. About half of the desks in our newsroom are run by women. And as we’ve increased our hiring over the last year, more than 60 percent of new hires have been women and more than 35 percent are people of color. At the same time we’ve expanded our coverage of gender and race.But I also believe we can do better. To point to one obvious example, our lineup of columnists still needs to be more diverse. I’m committed to working with leadership throughout The Times to continue pushing for real, visible progress over the next few years. I think it will make our journalism better and our business stronger._____The power of the press lies not just in how stories are written but in which stories are published. With the financial challenges that print faces, it’s harder to make choices that don’t necessarily cater to what readers think they want. I worry some important sections may alter or disappear if modern audiences feel they’re not interesting.How do you sustainably balance what the public wants to read with what you feel the public should know?— Andrea, in New York CityMy grandfather Punch Sulzberger used to say that people don’t come to The Times for news, they come for judgment. I believe that deeply.AdvertisementThere are countless other news organizations and social media platforms obsessed with giving the public exactly what it wants to read. At The Times, our reporters and editors spend their days asking: What does the public need to know?That our business is supported by the loyalty of our readers makes this easier for us. We don’t need to chase clicks. Our subscribers have made clear that they want original, expert journalism that they can’t read anywhere else.I was talking about this the other day with Nick Kristof, our longtime columnist. At a moment when so many journalists and commentators are writing about the same few stories, he keeps going to parts of the world whose stories aren’t being told to shine a spotlight on injustice and suffering. His commitment to writing about less-covered issues like the plight of the Rohingya (an issue he’s been warning the world about for years) is something I admire deeply.These stories don’t always get the most buzz or the highest readership, but at an institution dedicated to helping you understand the world, we view them as central to our mission._____How has working for, with, and ultimately succeeding your father shaped you as a leader?— David, in Plymouth, Mass.My father accomplished much during his 25 years as publisher, so there is a lot I could talk about here. But to me, his most important legacy is that he never wavered from investing in great journalism. Even as other newsrooms were drastically cut in recent years, he made additional investments that ensured The Times’s newsroom was stronger than ever.That was not the easy or obvious choice; it took bravery and vision. I feel lucky to have gotten to see that commitment up close, and it will continue to be my North Star._____You write, “In the inevitable moments we fall short, we will continue to own up to our mistakes, and we’ll strive to do better.” What is your analysis of where and how The New York Times has fallen short during the rise and reign of Trumpism?— Hannes Schaser, in Arlington, Va.AdvertisementIn general, I feel very good about our coverage of Trump’s campaign and his administration. It’s been aggressive, smart, revealing and fair.But we could always do better. To give one specific example, we’ve made clear that our reporting did not fully capture the anger, frustration and alienation around the country that helped fuel Trump’s rise. Over the last year, we assigned some of our best people to cover “red state” America, and they’ve done valuable and illuminating work.This is not a one-time adjustment — we are committed to this coverage going forward — and I think having experienced reporters talking to voters in every part of the country will make our report stronger as we head into the next election cycle._____How do you believe your relative youth will help you steer the nation’s most respected newspaper, which is more a platform today than the traditional “paper”?— Alonzo Byrd, in East St. Louis, Ill.This is a question I’m getting a lot these days. I think people are trying to find a polite way to ask whether I’m in over my head.One thing I should point out to start is that the publisher is just one part of a larger leadership team. And with experienced leaders like Mark Thompson, Dean Baquet, James Bennet, Meredith Levien and many others, I have the support of the best in the business.But there are also some ways that being young for a role like this has advantages. The most important is that I’m keenly aware that I need to continue to learn and grow, which I believe is essential in a world that is changing this fast. (In fact, I think it’s essential for anyone, of any age or experience, who works in the media business.)Another is that it wasn’t too long ago when I was out in the field as a reporter. Being deeply connected to the reality on the ground and having relationships with people at all levels of the company give me an extra layer of insight and empathy that can be really useful.Advertisement_____Hello Mr. Sulzberger! My name is Crystal Choi and I was recently chosen to serve as the editor in chief of my school’s Journalism Club.I wanted to say that I was very inspired by your statement on continuing on the mission of The New York Times in this day and age of manipulated mass media. Through the years, our club lost direction and isn’t in the best place right now, but after reading your letter, I am encouraged to help spark up a new flame as I strongly value the culture and skill sets that healthy journalism cultivates.I know school journalism isn’t much, but I hope our club can shadow your vision as best as possible and I look forward to continuing to see the great, unbiased and informative content of The New York Times. Thank you!— Crystal Choi, in Puyallup, Wash.Thanks, Crystal. I’m so pleased to hear that you read my note.Student journalism is both important and a great way to start learning about reporting and editing. I got my start in journalism under the tutelage of a great teacher named Bob Montera — thanks, Mr. Montera! — and many of my colleagues around The Times got their first journalism experience as students, too.We’re wishing you and your classmates lots of luck in the years ahead. The world needs more young people who are committed to the values that make great journalism possible.Follow the Reader Center on Twitter: @ReaderCenter.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 2018, on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: Our Publisher on Trust and Integrity.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Two years after the standoff at the Malheur Refuge, many people in the region remain convinced that their way of life is being trampled.By JENNIFER PERCYJAN. 18, 2018
I took the eastern route from Idaho, on a day of freezing rain, over the Strawberry Mountains, into the broad John Day River Basin, in Oregon. I was used to empty places. Most of my childhood was spent in this region of eastern Oregon, in remote areas of the sagebrush desert or in the volcanic mountains with their jagged peaks and old-growth forests. My family moved away just before I entered high school, and I never returned; I’ve felt in romantic exile ever since. This part of America that had once belonged to my childhood became the spotlight of national news in the winter of 2016, when the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge — an old childhood haunt — became the scene of a cowboy takeover. The takeover began as a protest in the town of Burns after two ranchers were sentenced to prison for arsons on federal land. The ranchers, Dwight and Steven Hammond, caught the attention of the Nevada rancher Ammon Bundy, who thought the punishment unfair. Bundy and a crowd of nearly 300 marchers paraded through Burns, and a splinter group eventually took over the Malheur headquarters. For 41 days, they refused to leave, protesting federal ownership of public lands, which they considered unlawful and abusive. I didn’t understand what had happened since I left, why so many people seemed so disillusioned and angry.The ground was snow-covered when I visited John Day last winter and the temperature below freezing. I was there to attend a meeting organized by Jeanette Finicum, the widow of LaVoy Finicum, an Arizona rancher who was shot and killed by government agents a year earlier. LaVoy was a leader of the Malheur occupation. He left the refuge for a speaking engagement in John Day with plans to return, but he was shot three times at an F.B.I. roadblock. For that reason, his widow was calling this event “The Meeting That NEVER Happened.”The town of John Day isn’t much more than a two-lane road through end-of-frontier brick buildings and is barely two square miles in size. A “closed” sign hung from the Ranch and Rodeo Museum, and the only vacancy was at a motel called Dreamers Lodge. Just west of town, off the Journey Through Time Scenic Byway, were the John Day fossil beds, where the remains of saber-toothed tigers and small horses were dug up from 30-million-year-old volcanic ash. To the east, replicas of covered wagons stood on the side of the road.I pulled up next to a minivan in the parking lot of Americas Best Value Inn. Three women stepped out. The driver wore American flag earrings and a Christmas sweater, her hair piled on her head. She was a candy-company representative in Boise and had driven to John Day with a trunk full of Mentos. “What’s going on with the media is absolute crap,” the driver said. We walked down the street, to the Outpost restaurant, and over lunch, she described what was happening in eastern Oregon as a “truth insurrection.” One of her companions, a delicate, elderly lady with long white hair, told me that she attended protests during the federal siege at Ruby Ridge, followed the killings at Waco and took an interest in the Bundys during the occupation. All three believed the government could come to their homes anytime and shoot them. “Someone please needs to get this story right,” the elderly lady said. When I showed her my tape recorder, she gave me a high five. She figured I couldn’t twist her words now. “Sometimes it happens,” she said. “The truth will end up in The New York Times. But your editors will probably mess it up.” I asked what truth she had in mind. “Well, for one thing,” she said, “LaVoy was not ‘killed’; he was ‘murdered.’ ”AdvertisementThe meeting was up the road at the Grant County Fairgrounds, in a building called the Trowbridge Pavilion, where every summer local residents gathered to show prizewinning livestock. The parking lot was crowded with pickup trucks mounted with Don’t Tread on Me flags and decorated in stickers that read, “LaVoy” or “Not Guilty.” The crowd was all white, a mix of ranchers, farmers, loggers, miners, firefighters and hard-right Mormons from Idaho, Utah and Arizona. There were as many women as men, lots of families and children. People wore T-shirts that read #libertyrevolution. A few dozen self-proclaimed militia members, mostly representatives from the Oath Keepers and the Oregon Three Percenters, were there, as well as members of the Finicum family and the Bundy family. I recognized occupiers from their mug shots. A few people carried guns to show their support of the Second Amendment. Many had traveled from out of state, and some had driven through the night, on bad roads and through dangerous weather, and spent money on hotels and food they could not really afford, they said. Why? They told me their livelihood was at stake.AdvertisementA long line formed to get in the door, and I started a conversation with Robin Olson and her 18-year-old daughter, Emily. Robin had long hair and bangs that brushed against the frame of her glasses. The Olsons lived in Powell Butte, a town of less than 2,000 people in central Oregon, not far from where I grew up. “This is the West,” she told me. “This is the real West. If only everyone could see it.”“Why are you here?” I asked.“To support the ranchers and farmers who feel like the people they are feeding are trying to destroy them. The people in the cities and suburbs just don’t get it.”Emily was a member of the Central Oregon Patriots (COP), a conservative grass-roots organization that rose out of the Tea Party. Its members intended to push back against environmental regulations that they believed hindered economic growth. They wanted the local community to make the decisions, not the federal government. “We are not a militia,” Emily said, “but everyone calls us a militia. I’m probably the only person under 60 in the group, and I’ve been called a terrorist. Can you believe it?”The building was about the size of a gymnasium, and inside an American flag that looked big enough to be a parachute hung behind a small stage equipped with a podium and a projector screen. In exhibit booths, people bought copies of books on patriot ideology, including an end-times novel by LaVoy Finicum and a biography of the rancher Cliven Bundy, Ammon’s father, by Shawna Cox, another Malheur occupier. “The rural people don’t have power to stand up against this mighty army that’s coming up against them,” Cox told me.The Finicum family sat on one side of the stage and the Bundys on the other. Three members of the Bundy family — Cliven, Ammon and his brother Ryan — were at the Nevada Southern Detention Facility in Pahrump. After the Malheur occupation, 26 of the occupiers were charged with federal conspiracy. The Bundy brothers and five others were acquitted in October 2016, but the Bundys and their father were in detention for their role in a 2014 standoff with the Bureau of Land Management at the Bundy ranch. Each faced more than a dozen charges for stopping a federally mandated impoundment of Cliven’s cattle as payment for fines and fees, including conspiracy, assaulting and threatening federal officers and obstruction of justice. Ammon’s mother, Carol, was in attendance at the meeting, as was his wife, Lisa, who had told me she didn’t know that Ammon intended to occupy the refuge until she saw a livestream on YouTube. In the video, her husband stood on the back of a truck bed and told a crowd about his plans. Lisa got Ammon on the phone. “He was like, ‘Just trust me, honey, I wouldn’t have done anything that God didn’t tell me to do.’ ”About 650 people showed up at the meeting that afternoon, and tens of thousands of viewers watched on Facebook Live. The building was dimly lit, and cold air blew through door. The evening’s M.C. was Trent Loos, a sixth-generation farmer from central Nebraska, best known among patriots for hosting “Loos Tales Podcasts” and “Rural Route Radio,” shows about rural America. Loos wore a red neckerchief and a leather vest over a button-down shirt tucked into jeans that fit snugly over riding boots. He spoke in the quick, clipped manner of an auctioneer.These patriots were right-wing populists who felt they were losing power. Many in the crowd expressed excitement about President Donald Trump and advocated for the transfer of federal lands to local control. They blamed environmentalists for the decline of rural culture and talked about the Endangered Species Act as a government conspiracy meant to drive ranchers off the land.LaVoy’s widow, Jeanette Finicum, had thick white hair with a fringe of bangs. Her loose black T-shirt read, “It matters how you stand,” a quote from LaVoy. A pin near her breast read, “I am the virus,” referencing a quote from Oregon’s longtime Democratic senator Ron Wyden, who described the ideology of the occupiers as a virus after they were arrested. She was a soft-spoken mother of 12, and at one point, she stepped onstage to share a video montage that included images of armed federal agents and burning cars, followed by “peaceful” images of cowboys, including LaVoy and Ryan Bundy. “I ask: Who are the real terrorists?” she said to the crowd.AdvertisementKrisAnne Hall, a 48-year-old lawyer and former prosecutor, was the evening’s keynote speaker. Hall averages 260 speaking engagements a year; the Southern Poverty Law Center once included her on its list of 998 anti-government groups and figures in the United States. She teaches that almost every federal agency, other than the military, is unconstitutional. “Do you think the federal government is out of control?” she asked. “We need to wake up. Nothing needs to happen except America needs to have a revolution of the mind.”Kate Dalley of a Utah affiliate of Fox News Radio wore heels and a red trench. “I want to talk about truth in media,” she told the crowd. “I know you laugh when I say that, because it’s kind of an oxymoron.” The media, she told us, was controlled and infiltrated, and the scripts were already written by the powers that be. She talked about the history of journalists working for the C.I.A. “They included journalists from The New York Times, Time magazine, which was already bought and sold by the elite anyway, The Washington Post, TV networks like CBS.” Robin Olson leaned forward and gave me a pat on the arm. “It will be O.K.,” she said. “We still like you.”In a 1992 photograph of America taken from space at night, the land in the Eastern half of the United States resembles a smear of the Milky Way, while the Western half resembles bright star clusters in empty space. A visitor to eastern Oregon would find country covered in sagebrush and juniper, hills painted with belts of ocher, orange, brick-red sand, Mars-like pillars formed by waterfalls and volcanic sludge, glacial lakes, volcanic uplifts, ancient seabeds and between all this, small human settlements: wheat fields, alfalfa farms and cattle ranches. The geographer Paul Starrs writes about the photograph in his essay “An Inescapable Range, or the Ranch as Everywhere.” “The dark space is ranching,” he says. “Ranching’s realm is really, then, definable as being where most people are absent.”I thought about this photograph when I first returned and began speaking with the people. After only a few generations living here, what made them feel the land so completely belonged to them?Robin Olson told me that a lot of the region’s thinking about politics in the West originated from a publication called Range magazine. “What you will find,” she told me, “is that it was never about the sage grouse, never about the spotted owl and never about the wolf. It was about getting people off the land.” I asked Robin about the sage grouse, whose population had plummeted from 16 million to a few hundred thousand, and she told me, “I don’t think they are really endangered.” The sage grouse “just happened to live in almost every Western state” and that’s why “the government chose it.”Range could be found in almost every grocery and tack store in rural Oregon. The glossy quarterly claims a readership of around 170,000, half of them ranchers and farmers in the rural West. Range, its website says, is “devoted to the issues that threaten the West, its people, lands and wildlife,” and it intends to “halt the depletion of a natural resource, the American cowboy.” In an article from 2012, the Endangered Species Act and the spotted owl are described as tools “used by radical environmentalists and government agents to destroy the timber industry in the 1990s.” The publication calls Rachel Carson’s “Silent Spring” a work of liberal propaganda. It is critical of the concept of global warming and suggests the real concern is global cooling. The magazine published features on the Malheur occupation and articles supporting the Bundys’ fight against the federal control of Western land.In many ways, it seemed, the people were constructing their ideas of the land upon a fantasy of the past. In the 2003 book “Where Land and Water Meet: A Western Landscape Transformed,” Nancy Langston, an environmental historian, writes about how each wave of white settlers to the Malheur ignored the history preceding their own. When Peter French first arrived in 1872, Langston writes, “the place had seemed nearly empty to him, and indeed it was this apparent emptiness that made the watershed such a fine place to establish an empire.” Of course, the land was not empty at all, but belonged to the Paiute Indian tribe, which had been living in the region for at least 13,000 years. In the decades after the land was designated a wildlife refuge in 1908, under the orders of President Theodore Roosevelt, conservationists built dikes, storage dams, canals, ditches and channels, and sprayed rotenone, an aquatic poison, to kill invasive carp. All these manipulations were done to make the Malheur seem wild again, the way it was before white settlers arrived.AdvertisementIn the 1970s, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act shifted the focus of the Bureau of Land Management from resource extraction to conservation. The policy marked the beginning of the Sagebrush Rebellion, a grass-roots revolt among ranchers, loggers and miners against environmental laws, like the 1964 Wilderness Act and the 1973 Endangered Species Act. Rural communities believed these new restrictions and regulations undermined their prosperity and shifted the fate of small-town economies into the hands of the federal government. If an endangered species lived on the range, for example, the bureau could decide to cut cattle numbers. Such protections fueled theories that the government was trying to eliminate ranchers to control the land.The history of Oregon is filled with stories of violent and racist groups. Communes, cults, alternative religious communities, militias: The state has been home to nearly 300 of them since 1856, including the Christian Identity movement, Posse Comitatus, Aryan Nations and the Roy Masters’ Foundation of Human Understanding. African-Americans were legally barred from residence in Oregon until 1926; the state, according to some historians, was essentially founded as a kind of white utopia. No one in my family, three generations of Oregonians, had ever heard about that.When my mother revised her understanding of the past, her romance with the West came to an end. A few years ago, she decided to start using the word “genocide” to describe the fate of the American Indians at the hands of white settlers. My grandparents had been involved in cults and fringe religious groups, and my mother and father attended past-life readings. One day she handed me a stack of these readings. On these pages was a story scribbled in the curvy cursive loops of the religious leader who told my mother that she had once been a brave pioneer on the edge of the Western frontier defending hard-won land from the onslaught of Indians.For many years, my family made it a habit to drive out to places like the Malheur and other remote areas. We carried rock picks. We found artifacts and fossils in the cracked mud of dry lake beds. We searched behind the high school baseball diamond in Fossil for the imprints of ancient ferns and crawled through buildings abandoned by the cult of the Rajneeshee. We saw arrowheads scattered on land where scientists uncovered the bones of ice-age sloths. We dug up an agatized root and dragged it home. We slept under the stars or in a trailer my father sometimes hitched to the truck. My mother filled my backpack with survival gear, and my father always carried a loaded gun. We cut down trees where we saw one; built a fire where we wanted one; slept on the ground in the valleys, among the sagebrush, near Indian burial sites. The eastern Oregon desert felt like a world that belonged to me. I felt antipathy toward visitors; even a lone hiker on the trail felt like a disturbance. In these moments, I figured that I, too, had arrived to an empty place. The rest of the world, the rest of America, were distant news.If you drive two hours south of John Day on Route 395, you’ll pass 1.7 million acres of Malheur National Forest, and end up in Burns, a town of a few thousand people. Outside Burns, on an old ice-age lake bed, is the ranch of Joe Cronin. In the spring, Cronin’s ranch fills with birds from the neighboring Malheur National Wildlife Refuge: great egrets, trumpeter swans, black crowned night herons.At 7 a.m. one day last January, there were more tractors on the road than cars. Cattle huddled in the snow-covered fields. I drove beneath a wood ranch gate, fitted with steer horns, and Cronin stepped out of his house to greet me in the driveway. He was a blue-eyed, 68-year-old, with a white goatee, wearing a plaid Elmer Fudd hat, baggy bluejeans and a mossy-oak camo coat with matching gaiters. His wife, Gay, made coffee in the kitchen, and their son Dirk loaded frozen hay bales onto a tractor bed. This was Cronin’s “home ranch,” where he housed his cattle in the winter and provided shelter for their newborns. In the spring, he gathered the cattle in trailers the size of semis and hauled them north, into the Malheur National Forest, where he owned 320 acres of land. He also had a permit that allowed him to graze his cattle for five and a half months of the year, usually June to October, on lands in the Malheur managed by the U.S. Forest Service. Every year he and Gay attended a required meeting to discuss the terms of their permit. Usually, the Forest Service decided how many cattle he could let out on the range and for how long. If an endangered species lived on the federal land, the terms of the permit were subject to change.Cronin told me that he wasn’t at the Meeting That NEVER Happened because he was advised by his lawyer not to attend. He called the Bundy takeover of the refuge a protest and didn’t see anything wrong with that. He was quiet for a minute. “Well, they probably shouldn’t have taken over that refuge, but what I liked about it was that it got this conversation going about government overreach. People wouldn’t believe it otherwise.” He remembered the day the F.B.I. came to Burns and barricades went up at the courthouse. The school turned into a staging ground. He said the town looked like “something out of that ‘Red Dawn’ movie, for Christ sakes” and that “it was World War III in Harney County.”Joe and Gay didn’t travel much because the cattle always needed to be looked after. In Burns, they didn’t have a local radio station, and they got their news when they could from television. Cronin didn’t attend college, and the farthest east he had traveled was Boise, Idaho. “I’ve worked out here all my life,” he said. “That’s my degree.” Joe had the sleep cycle of a lumberjack, waking up at 3 or 4 in the morning and going to bed around 7 in the evening. It was what his family had always done. In 1955, Joe’s dad took a job at the Edward Hines sawmill, which purchased a 67,400-acre tract of timber in the Malheur National Forest. Burns was a vibrant timber town until around 1973 when the mill started laying off workers, and the unemployment rate in Harney County reached 30 percent. The mill closed after the Forest Service restricted the cutting of old-growth forest in the mid-1990s. For-sale signs went up and people moved away. Cronin graduated from high school in 1968 with about 120 people in his class, and his grandson’s class will graduate with about half that many. The biggest employers in the region are now the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management and other government agencies. Cronin was in the logging business for years, but it was hard to make ends meet. He bought a small ranch in 1994. He started with four cows, and after 10 years those four cows turned into a 600-head operation. He didn’t use antibiotics or hormones, and his cattle were grass-fed, no fertilizers in the field. Each calf was born into his open arms.AdvertisementAfter he fed the cows, he took me for a drive on some icy back roads. Near Rattlesnake Creek, we stopped to gaze at a herd of half-starved mule deer. “Our main problem,” he said, “is with the Fish and Wildlife Service.” A few years ago the agency found the bull trout was vulnerable, including on the river that runs through Cronin’s land and determined grazing cattle endangered the fish’s spawning grounds.“They say the cows are killing the fish,” Cronin said. “I think it’s a vehicle to remove cattle off national forest. I can’t see anything wrong with that river. I think the government science is slanted.” Cronin asked a riparian ecologist who had been at the University of Montana to run an independent analysis of Little Crane Creek, where his livestock grazed. “He said that it was one of the healthiest riparian areas he’s ever studied,” Cronin said. “Excellent shape.” The ecologist sent a copy to Cronin and another to the Forest Service office in John Day. “Never heard anything about it,” Cronin said. “But if I’m hurting that stream, I want to know about it. I just don’t understand it. They are saying the numbers are down. I think there ought to be an independent study. We just get the feeling that the science is out of touch all together.”Cronin’s friend David Torrence came up the road in a pickup. People called him “Big Hat.” He wore a gray hoodie and a pretty big hat. There were two Chihuahuas in the passenger seat. He and Cronin caught up on the weather and chatted about the bald eagles in the canyon. “The Forest Service didn’t let us haul logs in the canyon,” Cronin told me, “because of those birds. They said the trucks were waking up the birds. Look at all of them.”Big Hat asked about me. Cronin looked my way. “Should I say it?” he said. He meant my New York Times affiliation. Big Hat got out of his truck, stuck his sun-wrinkled face in the open window and folded his arms over the door. He asked about the meeting I attended in John Day. “Was there any violence or anything?” he said.“There was no violence,” I said.“You know, Trump,” Big Hat said, “he has been having all this with the media, you know? How they twist [expletive] up and everything? I was watching the news, and it showed a local reporter who was at the meeting. She told Jeanette [Finicum] she was expecting violence and demonstrations, you know? Jeanette was all teary-eyed, and she said: ‘Hey, we are not outlaws. We are not criminals. We are full-blooded American ranchers. We don’t want no violence.’ ” He pointed at me. “You people are talking about violence and the meeting hasn’t even started? We just think that the government got too much control.” He opened his mouth and shook his head. “We just want to live our lives.”“I told her my story,” Cronin said. “I get up at 3 a.m. and start watching Fox News. I’m so pissed off by 5 o’clock, it’s time to go to work.”“Hey, hey,” Big Hat said. “Fox News is a good channel.” Big Hat said he voted as a Democrat until Donald Trump’s election. “Trump has been the best guy we’ve dealt with in 30 years,” Big Hat said. “I voted for Trump. But all my sisters and stuff are all pissed off at me because I’d been a Democrat.”Cronin switched parties because of gun control in the ’80s. “I went right up to the courthouse and changed to a Republican.” He tapped the gun on the dashboard: a .22 Magnum he’d packed for 30 years. “I don’t have a permit to carry concealed,” he said. “I’m one of those guys who wants you to see my goddamn gun. See where it’s at. Almost put it away for you but thought, No, she just needs to see me the way I am. It’s part of our lifestyle.”Cronin brushed some hay from his shoulder. “Now,” he said, “I know The New York Times, they don’t like anything Trump does. When he was elected though, oh, my God, maybe something will start happening to help us out here. I’m just looking at natural-resource uses. Out here, no one has ever done anything for us. We are saying what’s happening and nobody is listening and nobody cares. Nobody back East loses one second of sleep over two ranchers. They said we’re bad guys.”AdvertisementLater that day, Cronin and his wife took me to see the spot where LaVoy Finicum was shot. There were elk tracks in the thickets and ice on the roads. He pointed out the dying trees with bare branches and yellow needles. “The forest doesn’t look like this on our property,” he said. “The government’s side of the fence looks like [expletive].”Cronin stopped the truck. He pointed to a smear of red spray paint in the snow.“That’s probably where he died right there.”My childhood home of Tumalo lies at the meeting point between the foothills of the Cascade Range and the high desert. When I was a kid, the town had less than 500 people, a post office, a hamburger joint and a gas station. Tumalo was like a border town between one kind of Oregon and another, between the foothills of the central Cascades and the rural high desert of the east.My parents ended up here only because they were hippies who wanted to live off the land. My induction to the land began with my parents, but my introduction to the culture began at Tumalo Elementary School. The kids were sons of farmers and ranchers, and they wore work boots to school and talked about their heads of cattle, their prize livestock for breeding, their acres of wheat. I wanted nothing more than to become like them. After school, I attended 4-H meetings, learned to shoot a rifle and traveled door to door with my Christian friend to warn neighbors that if they didn’t believe in Jesus they might burn in hell. Despite my efforts, I never felt fully part of the culture. I tried to hide my liberal parents, who refused to buy me livestock, any livestock, for 4-H competitions. I was stuck showing guinea pigs. Every week I visited the guinea-pig lady’s house to learn how to brush and clean prizewinning rodents. At the fair, my guinea pig won nothing. In fifth grade, I wanted to try rodeo. All the kids started with mutton busting, which meant sitting on a sheep while it ran. I tried riding a sheep that my friend found in a field, but I got bucked from it and broke my wrist. After that, the kids praised me. I associate those years most fondly with thrill and violence: that wrist bone I cracked beneath the weight of a sheep, the electric horse fence I gripped in the rain, the day I put my hand inside a pregnant, laboring sheep and pulled out a living creature.After a three-hour drive west on Highway 20, I was back in Tumalo. It was still a quaint town, dotted with juniper trees, centered on the general store, but it had been overtaken by a fancy coffee house and a yoga studio. I wanted to cry. I visited my elementary school and took a few pictures of the playground, but a man chased me off. I felt a kind of native antipathy toward Bend, which had more than doubled in population since I was a kid and spurred the growth of nearby towns.That week, Robin Olson, from the meeting in John Day, had invited me to a high-school wrestling match in Redmond, not far from Tumalo. It was Crook County versus Redmond, longtime rivals. The gymnasium of Redmond High School was dark. The bleachers were crowded with ranchers, miners and loggers. A single lamp hung over a vinyl wrestling mat. Some of these kids get up at 4 a.m. to work the ranch, go to school and then wrestle at night. I’d been to this gymnasium before to watch family and friends wrestle on the mat.Robin’s nephew was going to wrestle that night. She told me that they had been on their way to a wrestling tournament at Burns during the occupation at the wildlife refuge the night her son, Daniel, decided he wanted to meet Ammon Bundy. They drove to Malheur, and Daniel asked Bundy to autograph a pocket constitution. At the gym, about halfway through the night, her nephew stepped onto the mat. The Crook County boys pointed their arms at the mat to send energy into the fight. “It’s not so much wrestling,” Olson explained, “as it is a religious experience.” The boys grabbed at each other, wiggled in and out of headlocks. Their skin was luminous with sweat. In the end, her nephew walked off defeated.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We are just out here trying to survive,” Olson told me. “We have been preserving the land for the last 100 years, but now you are telling us we won’t preserve it? How do we get along with the people who are trying to take away everything precious to us?”AdvertisementRobin’s daughter Emily had been an active member of 4-H. She once competed in the Crook County Fair. In 2014, she went to New York City for a choir trip, and she thought it was “all right.” Most Thursday nights, Emily attended a Central Oregon Patriots meeting at the Calvary Baptist Church off Main Street in Prineville. On Feb. 2, I joined Emily there, along with her mother and her grandparents. It was snowing and 15 below zero. The wind burned your skin. The adult Bible-study room where we gathered was warm and brightly lit. The walls were covered in Jesus posters.A couple of dozen members sat around foldout tables set with vinyl tablecloths. They recited the Pledge of Allegiance and said a prayer thanking God for this day and for the snow. The group had been meeting for six years and every year held a raffle. They raffled a gun once in a while and a freezer full of meat at Christmas. On the Fourth of July they handed out pocket constitutions. Tom Case, the chairman of the group, crossed his arms. “You might have heard we are a militia,” he said to me. He pointed to Darlene, a woman in her 70s with short gray hair and large prescription glasses. “She’s a dangerous lady,” he said. “You should see her with a broom in her hands.” Everybody in the room laughed.“Another thing you might hear,” Darlene said, “is that we are trying to take land away from the federal government, and we are not. We just want to work with them. See, if you’re a patriot, you’re automatically evil. You’ve seen that. Look around the table. A lot of us know how to shoot a gun, but that’s about it.”“Oregon Wild would say we are a shadow government,” Case said. Oregon Wild, a conservation group, had lobbied to expand wilderness and recreation areas in the 845,000-acre Ochoco National Forest near Prineville. The potential of that forest as an engine of economic growth gnawed at the members. To fight federal regulations in the Ochoco forest, the patriots helped form a political-action committee that drafted a proposal called the Crook County Natural Resources Plan, which argued for “coordination,” a process that would allow state, county and other lower-level governments to give input to federal agencies’ land-use plans. The 59-page resource plan favored extractive use of public lands, called for no reduction in cattle numbers, asked that forests be logged following a wildfire and requested that lands previously open to mining remain open.“We have to do everything we can to preserve our culture and community,” another said, “so that we all don’t fade away to Portland for a job.”A woman named Kristin Thomas told us she was new to the patriots. She was a vegetarian with long blond hair who read Shakespeare and had attended Juilliard for stage acting.Thomas shared a story about her father’s life as a commercial fisherman on the Indian River in Florida. She told us that his business collapsed after the “ban the nets” movement that eliminated the use of gill nets in the 1990s. “The media twisted everything,” she said, “saying that my father caught dolphins and sea turtles in his nets. We took care of our river, and we didn’t overfish, but we were always the bad guys. The day after ‘ban the nets,’ my dad’s best friend died of a heart attack, one of my friends hung himself, another shot himself.” The room was quiet. Darlene jumped in with her own story. The Forest Service was going to shut down a ranger station that she had visited every year since she was a child. She lifted her glasses and wiped her eyes.After the meeting ended, the patriots drove to McDonald’s, as they did every Thursday night, because it was the only restaurant open past 9 p.m. They pushed tables together and ate soft-serve ice cream. Everyone ordered vanilla.AdvertisementRobin and Emily were headed home to Powell Butte and suggested that I follow them on the Ochoco Highway until it intersected with Highway 20. Emily rode with me in my passenger seat. When we reached the intersection, Olson called Emily and said she was going to lead me through the snowstorm, to Burns. I tried to stop her. “It’s too late,” Emily said. “She’s going all the way.”We drove for hours through the dark. I could see nothing ahead but the churning snow and the distant glow of brake lights. The road was straight and flat and populated by rabbits. We heard a thump. “I killed something,” I said. Emily smiled. “Don’t worry about the bunny,” she said.Nearly half the state of Oregon appeared to be on fire when I returned in August. Megafires were burning nearly 300,000 acres of forest, and the skies turned a sickly yellow hue in the evening.The Forest Service offices for the Malheur National Forest are on the outskirts of John Day in a building decorated with big topographical maps, Smokey Bear posters and replicas of old skulls in glass viewing cases. The office worked with 60 ranchers, including Joe Cronin. When I sat down with Steve Beverlin, the forest supervisor for the Malheur National Forest, I asked about the ranchers who didn’t trust the government. Beverlin looked surprised. “None of our permittees attended the Finicum event in John Day,” he said. “Our employees all have a good relationship with all the permittees. They don’t talk like that. They recognize the laws of the United States.”I told Beverlin that I’d spent time with one of his permittees, and he did talk like that. Beverlin asked who it was, and I told him it was Joe Cronin. He shrugged. It was the first he’d heard of it. I asked about Cronin’s riparian report. He said they probably had it somewhere. “The split caused by the Bundys in Burns will take generations to heal,” he told me.That week, Cronin was out at his summer range, deep in the Malheur National Forest with his cows, sleeping in an old homesteader’s cabin. Blue and violet-colored sagebrush spread east, north, south and west. The nights were cold. There was no internet, no cellphone service, no potable water. The bathroom was an outhouse. It was about as desolate a spot as you could find.I met Cronin and Gay in the town of Seneca, population 197, and followed them down an old logging road for two hours into the woods. Along the way, Cronin stopped his truck, got out and pointed at a sign. “Now,” he said, “I want you to pay attention to this.” The sign reminded fishermen to release bull trout, which have been listed as “threatened,” or they would be fined. That was all. Cronin climbed back into his truck.The landscape shifted from dark forests to sunlit meadows. About every half-hour we came across a gathering of cows. There was one spot on a hill where cellphones picked up service. Cronin ran to it in his spurs and cowboy hat, stood on the highest point and caught up on some business. Gay sat in my rental car and led me the rest of the way, over washboard roads that turned into something like a dry riverbed, clotted with boulders and jagged rock. We barely made it.AdvertisementCronin called the settlement Cow Camp. It was a mix of trailers, trucks, old farm equipment and homesteader shacks. He and Gay slept in the original homestead, a one-room cabin. The wood was gray and cracked. Sparrows built nests in the awnings and small animals burrowed beneath a sagging fence. Inside, bright, buttery pine boards covered the walls. There was a queen bed with a quilt and two gun racks.Cronin searched for his glasses and smoothed a topographical map of the Malheur National Forest over the top of the dining table. On the map, his private property, 320 acres, was marked in blue. It was a small island in a sea of green, which was the public land where he had a grazing permit. Cronin’s allotment of grazing land was divided into eight pastures, and the North Fork of the Malheur River ran through one pasture called Mountain Unit.The Forest Service had just started limiting use on one of Cronin’s pastures to protect bull-trout habitat. The agency wanted Cronin to keep his cattle out of the creek, which is an important spawning grounds for the fish. Cronin tried, but he couldn’t keep the cows out unless he fenced off the whole pasture. He needed that pasture if the calves were going to gain enough weight. Cronin asked the agency if he could fence off the creek instead, and they agreed. But then he would have to find another water source. There were springs running beneath the ground that would be easy enough to dig up. But he needed permission and the process would take months.“If they are going to take away my permit,” he said. “I’ll tell them I disagree with that, without just compensation. O.K., are you going to compensate me for it? Do you want to buy from us so we are never on there again?”Cronin sat down and pulled off his boots. The hardships of ranching showed in his body. Cronin had cracked his neck when a horse bucked him, and two months later he was hit by a tree branch and suffered a concussion.“I just don’t believe the science,” he said.He turned to his wife. “What do you think, Gay? Do you think the bull trout is endangered?”“If they were endangered,” she said, “they wouldn’t be able to go out and count them.”Joe Cronin said he contacted Trent Loos, the radio host and M.C. of the meeting in John Day, to talk about regulations on federal land. “I hear that Loos has Trump’s ear,” Cronin told me, “so Trump will know some of the issues out here we’re dealing with.”For dinner, Cronin cooked a beef brisket the size of a football on an outdoor grill and talked about global warming. In elementary school, the teachers told him that the earth might plunge into another ice age, and the news had scared him, but then the ice age never happened. He thought it would be the same with global warming: It would never happen. He mentioned the petrified oak trees dug up nearby, and he said that oak trees only grow in warm climates. “The point is,” he said, “a million years ago it was a hell of a lot warmer climate then than now.”AdvertisementCronin poured meat juice on his dogs’ food. “You got to get that Range magazine,” he said. “This article on why global warming was a farce had graphs and everything.” In the article, the author accused scientists of installing temperature-monitoring devices near asphalt to record higher temperatures. “I assume it’s all fact-checked,” Cronin said.The day before, white supremacists gathered in Charlottesville, Va., to protest the removal of a statue of Robert E. Lee. A man named James Fields drove into a crowd of counterprotesters and killed a 32-year-old woman. I said that the white supremacists had seemed to channel Trump’s vision of America. Had it shifted Cronin’s thinking at all?He and Gay had been out on the range and hadn’t heard about the event.That night I slept in a R.V. trailer next to the cabin. Inside was a cowboy hat, a handgun and some soiled clothes. Cronin told me the wolves in the area didn’t always kill to eat but left whole carcasses behind. I didn’t sleep well. During the night, a fog rolled over Cow Camp, and in the morning before the sun rose, I could barely see. I heard Cronin in the corral, getting the horses ready to ride. They were running in circles. When the sun came out, the fog brightened and it looked heavy like smoke. Cronin was inside it, waving at me. It looked like a dream, like we were all burning alive.The writer William Kittredge was raised on a cattle ranch in southeastern Oregon and later spent 30 years as a professor of English and creative writing at the University of Montana in Missoula. He writes about being born into the ranching culture, loving that culture but also making the decision to leave it. He had many misgivings about “ruining” the Warner Valley, where his ranch was located. People in his hometown considered him a traitor for what he wrote. In his 1996 book, “Who Owns the West,” Kittredge calls for a change in mentality: “We have taken the West for about all it has to give. We have lived like children, taking and taking for generations, and now the childhood is over.”In October, the Interior secretary, Ryan Zinke, and his team announced their intent to amend 98 science-based sage-grouse management plans in 10 states, a plan that favored resource extraction over conservation. Trent Loos was selected as a member of Trump’s agricultural-advisory team, a committee of rural representatives that intends to mobilize support in communities and reduce environmental regulations. In December, Trump announced the largest federal land reduction in United States history, including almost half of Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in southern Utah. Escalante’s once-seamless expanse of protected land was divided into three separate monuments.Kristen Thomas, the member of the Central Oregon Patriots from Florida, had written a letter to Ammon Bundy in prison, and he’d written back. She had chatted to Ryan Bundy over a livestream while he sat in prison. She loved listening to the Bundy boys talk, she told me when we spoke on the phone this summer. “We’ve grown a lot deeper,” she said. “The movement is solidifying.” Thomas had been learning about F.B.I.-informant behavior, training, tactics and goals — how to go in and implode a movement, how to create chaos, how to divide a people — because she believed the patriot movement had been infiltrated. “We are not raping the environment,” she said. “We are not doing the things you are accusing us of doing.”On Jan. 8, almost a year after the rally in John Day, the Bundys walked free. They had been on trial in Las Vegas for 11 months, before Judge Gloria M. Navarro dismissed the case, citing the federal prosecution’s and the F.B.I.’s “flagrant misconduct” and “deliberate attempts to mislead and distort the truth.” The prosecution withheld more than 1,000 pages from the defense, which included reports that federal snipers surrounded the Bundy family as Bureau of Land Management agents prepared to impound their cattle and that F.B.I. surveillance cameras recorded the Bundy home. Thomas felt vindicated. “I think the Bundys have woken up a lot of people experiencing different versions of federal oppression,” she told me. “If we pull back and make a smaller federal government, we won’t have as many problems. When the feds have all the power, look at what they do.”In August, I met Emily and Robin Olson for dinner at Tastee Treet, a vintage hamburger joint in Prineville. We sat in a red vinyl booth, and Robin ordered a bacon cheeseburger and a root-beer float, which Emily described as her mother’s “last meal,” meaning the meal Robin would choose if she knew it would be her final one. While Robin ate, she reflected on the landscape she witnessed on a road trip in July. They drove 5,600 miles through 10 Western states in two weeks. They tried to hit every Western state but missed California and Utah. They never passed a town of more than 20,000 until they reached Fort Collins, in Colorado. “The rural United States, it’s like eastern Oregon,” she said, “and that’s like the entire world.”AdvertisementThey visited Yellowstone National Park and saw, they said, two million acres of natural resources gone to waste. “At least one day a year,” Robin said, “we ought to be able to go in and take advantage.”Emily thought the trees were too close together. “Didn’t look healthy,” she said, “because they don’t log.”“And look at all those buffalo,” Robin said. “Can’t some of them be used for meat?”“You wanted to eat them?” I said.“I was looking at the buffalo and just seeing a steak,” she said.Robin was disappointed in Yellowstone, but she remained hopeful about Trump. “A lot of conservatives were concerned that he wouldn’t be conservative enough.” At home Robin saved a copy of The Bulletin, a local paper in the liberal-leaning town of Bend, with the headline “Trump Victory” because it gave her “energy” to look at it. “Sometimes I look at that headline and think, Right, yes, I feel good.”Two ranchers, a young husband and wife, walked into Tastee Treet and sat down behind us. They were friends of Robin. “Hey, do you guys like The New York Times?” Robin asked.The husband told me that his son came home from school one day and informed him that cow flatulence was contributing to global warming. “No, it’s just the climate cycle,” he told his son. Emily had had the same teacher. “When I learned her teacher was doing stuff on global warming,” Robin said, “that fired me up.” Robin asked for five minutes of class time to give a counterargument.“I think if people are honest,” Robin said, “they look at all this and think black helicopters and tinfoil hats, but if you really go deeper, you’ll ask: ‘What are they doing to take away the forestry, logging and timber industry? What are they doing to take away farming?’ ”“Too much to be a coincidence,” Emily said. “The spotted owls, the wolves, the sage grouse, the cougar, the frogs.”I tried to suggest a lack of understanding between rural and urban people, but Robin stopped me. “No,” she said. “We just want different things.” The statement was cold and clear. It suggested the end of reconciliation. “We don’t want you breathing down our back,” she said. “Bottom line is we don’t trust you. We don’t trust you to look out for our best interests. And in truth we don’t even know that you know how to. A lot of people were saying this was about saving the bunnies and butterflies, but that’s not what this is about.”AdvertisementRobin sat over her empty plate. “It’s about getting people off the land,” she said. “It’s dark.”Jennifer Percy is a contributing writer for the magazine whose last feature, about Japanese families searching for their loved ones after the 2011 tsunami, won a National Magazine Award.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page MM42 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: ‘They Want to Destroy Us’.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 9, 2018
If you cannot make it to Hawaii for poke, Acme Smoked Fish of Brooklyn has added convenient single-serving poke bowls to its product line. Lightly smoked and salt-cured diced salmon or tuna, a sauce and spices, each in separate pouches, come packed in the bowl with a serving of cooked rice that can be heated in a microwave before combining with the other ingredients. Personalize the mix with your own avocado, cucumber and herbs: Blue Hill Bay Poke Bowls, $9 to $11, at Whole Foods, Costco and Wegmans, poke.bluehillbay.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Consume: Hawaiian Fish Salad That’s Easy to Assemble.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 9, 2018
Sometimes the biggest knife in the holder is not what you need. That even goes for a cleaver. Zwilling, the German cutlery maker, has introduced a small, sturdy cleaver, with a blade just 4½ inches long, in their Pro line. It’s good for disjointing a chicken, smashing cucumbers for a Sichuan salad or making short work of garlic: Zwilling Pro Mini-Cleaver, $59.99 (sale price), williams-sonoma.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Whack: With a Cleaver, Bigger  Is Not Always Better.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »JAN. 9, 2018
Now Read This is a book club offered jointly from the PBS NewsHour and The New York Times. Every month, we’ll pick a book that helps us make sense of the world we’re living in — fiction, history, memoir and more.How long do I have to read the book?A month! We’ll announce the book pick at the beginning of every month.What else does the book club provide?As you read, we’ll post discussion questions and other material related to the book, including reviews from The Times reviews and writing advice from the author, as well as inside looks at how the book was written. Be sure to join our Facebook group, Now Read This, and visit throughout the month, where we’ll discuss the book with you as you read along.How do I get a question to the author?You can submit questions about the book on our Facebook group or to our Google form, if you are not on Facebook. At the end of the month, the author will appear on the PBS NewsHour and take your questions.Can my book club read along?Absolutely! We’d love it if your local book club read along with us. We invite you to use our discussion questions and author insight as a guide, to submit your members’ own questions for the author, and to play our video interviews with the author during your book club meetings.Where can I get the book?Most of our book picks will be in paperback. You can find the book in your local library, bookstore or online.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 22, 2018
Reasonably priced does not spring to mind at mention of the chef Thomas Keller’s French Laundry or Per Se. But it does apply to a new line of caviars, Regiis Ova, from Mr. Keller and Shaoching Bishop, who was previously with Sterling Caviar and Tsar Nicoulai Caviar, two California companies. I found the sturgeon caviars — from sustainable farms in California, Uruguay and central China — to be generally good quality and range from $66 to $120 for 30 grams (about an ounce), with higher prices delivering the most attractive and best-textured roes. The line also includes trout, salmon and excellent whitefish roe ($20 to $25 for 50 grams, about an ounce and three-quarters): Regiis Ova, regiisova.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Indulge: Satisfying Caviar Tastes On a Craft-Beer Budget.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 22, 2018
At a new, serene little respite from a busy stretch of East Broadway, the attraction is a collection of desserts, mostly Japanese for now, to eat in or take away. The chefs Eddie Zheng and Olivia Leung — both graduates of the Institute of Culinary Education, with credentials from places like Dominique Ansel and La Sirena — offer monaka ice cream sandwiches in flavors like buckwheat and corn encased in crisp shells. Tidy dorayaki honey pancakes have fillings that include matcha cream and seared banana, and apple confit with mascarpone. They’re just getting going, Mr. Zheng said, and they expect to add more desserts soon: The Little One, 150 East Broadway (Rutgers Street), no phone, no website.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Crave: Ice Cream Sandwiches With Offbeat Flavors.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 22, 2018
The 40th birthday of the Inn at Little Washington in Washington, Va., is occasion for at least one party, so Patrick O’Connell, the owner, is doing just that. First up will be a dinner on Sunday ($375 a ticket) at the Inn, four decades to the date of the inn’s opening in what had been an auto repair shop. On June 16, Mr. O’Connell will hold a garden party at Mount Vernon, George Washington’s estate ($2,500 a ticket; event also benefits Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association). On Sept. 2, the village becomes Innstock for an all-day celebration with food, wines and music ($250 a ticket). Proceeds from each event benefit the Patrick O’Connell Foundation, which supports culinary education and historic preservation: The Inn at Little Washington, Washington, Va., 540-675-3800, theinnat40.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Celebrate: Inn at Little Washington Plans Anniversary Events.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 22, 2018
Whether or not you’re waiting for the Super Bowl to tackle your next batch of guacamole, there’s a new gadget that will improve the results. The Guac-Lock is a bowl that effectively eliminates exposure to air, preventing the oxidation that discolors the avocados. With my test batch, the color stayed true for two days and was far superior to that of guacamole sealed with a sheet of plastic wrap placed on the surface. The bowl was invented by a couple of entrepreneurial home cooks, and though it’s a little complicated to use, it’s worth the effort. It comes with a recipe that’s simple but good: Casabella Guac-Lock, $19.95, thegrommet.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Preserve: In Making Guacamole,  It’s Easy to Stay Green.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 18, 2018
Old Forester, the bourbon brand, has introduced a collection of cocktail components meant for the perfect old-fashioned. Jackie Zykan, the company’s master taster, helped create the three kinds of bitters ($11.50 each), in cherry-tobacco, cinnamon-black tea and citrus flavors; two syrups ($8.50 each), Demerara and citrus; and a tincture of smoked sea salt and black pepper ($7.50). All are suited for an old-fashioned or other cocktails. They’re made by Bourbon Barrel Foods, a Louisville company known for its condiments: Old Forester Cocktail Provisions, store.oldforester.com and bourbonbarrelfoods.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Mix: Perfecting a Cocktail With Bourbon in Mind.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 15, 2018
A new book about Benjamin Franklin covers his 84 years and the food that accompanied them, all based on prodigious research by Rae Katherine Eighmey, a food historian. The account is dense with detail, conveying Mr. Franklin’s tastes, curiosity and inventiveness, including kitchen innovations like a special oven. Recipes for vegetables and salads (including a warm one dressed with melted butter and verjus) may come as a surprise to some readers. Ledgers kept by his French household manager illustrate the range of products in his kitchen, including vanilla beans, artichokes and ingredients for ice cream. Worth trying is an apple tart made with applesauce custard: “Stirring the Pot With Benjamin Franklin: A Founding Father’s Culinary Adventures” by Rae Katherine Eighmey (Smithsonian Books, $21.95).Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Head: Benjamin Franklin’s  Way to Cook.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 15, 2018
Most people say toffee, but I grew up knowing it as buttercrunch. That’s what Loft, a New York brand started by William Loft in 1860, called it. Loft’s went out of business in the 1990s, but up in Manchester, Vt., Mother Myrick’s Confectionery makes similar buttercrunch. Ron Mancini, an owner of the company, grew up in Queens eating Loft’s candies. He uses Cabot Creamery butter and coats his buttercrunch with milk or dark chocolate and chopped nuts: $18.95 for 7 ounces to $68.95 for two pounds, Mother Myrick’s Confectionery, 888-669-7425, mothermyricks.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Snap: From Vermont, A Taste of Old N.Y.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 15, 2018
It’s no challenge to find Manchego, the popular Spanish cheese. But Mahón has only recently become widely available in the United States. The pale yellow cheese, from the island of Minorca, is versatile. Typically a squarish loaf, it is buttery mild with a fruity aroma after three months of aging. Paprika gives the rind its bright orange hue. At six months, the rind darkens to brown, the texture firms up and the cheese becomes more robust. There is another six-month-old version, made from raw milk, with a more intensely fruity flavor. All are excellent melters: Mahón, Whole Foods and Gourmet Garage stores, $16 to $24 per pound, depending on the variety and the store.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Slice: Spanish Cheese For Melting.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 15, 2018
La Morada, a bright outpost for the cooking of Oaxaca, Mexico, will inaugurate a brunch that surveys assorted moles from the region and beyond. The vibrant lineup features poblano mole made with dark chocolate; negro with five chiles; verde with green pumpkin seeds; pipian with red pumpkin seeds; blanco with pine nuts; and, of course, Oaxacan mole made with seven chiles. Each sauce will be served with meats and vegetables, and sangria. Carolina Saavedra, the sous-chef and daughter of the owners, Antonio Saavedra and the chef Natalia Mendez, came up with the brunch idea: Mole brunch, $50 per person, Jan. 21, noon to 3:30 p.m., La Morada, 308 Willis Avenue (141st Street), Mott Haven, Bronx, 718-292-0235, lamoradanyc.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Savor: The Mole Flows  At This Brunch.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 15, 2018
The League of Kitchens, which trains immigrants to give cooking lessons in their home kitchens, will host a vegetarian dinner in February at the James Beard Foundation. Rachana Rimal, one of the league’s instructors, will cook the Nepali menu. Cheese-filled spinach croquettes, cauliflower fried in chickpea batter, and black dal served with mustard greens, roasted eggplant, basmati rice and pickles are among the items planned. An Uzbek dinner, which will be the first halal meal at the Beard House, is planned for May: Nepalese Vegetarian Feast, Feb. 2 at 7 p.m., $135 for members, $175 for nonmembers, James Beard Foundation, 167 West 12th Street (Seventh Avenue), jamesbeard.org.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Discover: Dinners to Showcase  Immigrant Kitchens.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 15, 2018
The cold waters off Canada’s east and west coasts produce some excellent oysters. For years, the enjoyable briny-sweet Malpeque from Prince Edward Island has been the best-known and most widely available in the United States. But there are others vying for popularity. Pink Moons, also from Prince Edward Island, are richly briny. The somewhat smaller, slightly nutty-tasting Beau Soleil from New Brunswick is a favorite of mine. Fanny Bays from the West Coast of Canada offer mellow flavor touched with salt: Lobster Place, Chelsea Market, 75 Ninth Avenue (15th Street), 212-255-5672, lobsterplace.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Shuck: Treasures Ready To Be Slurped.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byFront BurnerBy Florence FabricantThis month the New York City Opera will stage “Cruzar la Cara de la Luna,” Jose (Pepe) Martinez and Leonard Foglia’s opera about Mexican immigrants, featuring mariachi music, at the Rose Theater of Jazz at Lincoln Center. In conjunction with the production, which runs from Jan. 25 to 28, the opera company has organized a discussion with the Mexican Consulate about Mexican culture, mariachi music and immigration, including a demonstration of guacamole-making by Joe Quintana, an executive chef at Rosa Mexicano: 6 p.m., Jan. 22, Consulate General of Mexico in New York Cultural Institute, Octavio Paz Gallery, 27 East 39th Street (Madison Avenue), mciny.org, nycopera.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Advertisement
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 9, 2018
Prosciutto in Italian simply means ham. In the English-speaking world, the term refers to fancy cured ham, like prosciutto di Parma. But it’s time to appreciate another fine expression of the Italian way with ham, prosciutto cotto, delicious cooked ham like the highly prized Gran Biscotto line from Rovagnati, made in Lombardy, and now being imported for the first time. Some stores are selling only the delicate plain variety, which is rubbed with herbs and gently steam-cooked; others also sell varieties seasoned with rosemary or studded with black truffle: $18 a pound, Eataly stores; $11.99 for eight ounces (plain), murrayscheese.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Slice: A New Meaning For Prosciutto.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Front Burner By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 9, 2018
A collection of bright West African soups made in Harlem is a good way to put a steaming bowl on the table. Densely textured groundnut (peanut) soup has spicy heat and, thinned a bit, is also excellent cold. Melon seed is the most unusual of the lot, packed with vegetables. Thick Gbegiri, made from Nigerian honey peas, combines mellowness with some chile fire, and does well with chicken added. The smooth, ruddy Obe Ata tomato soup pops with a faintly peppered kick that still shines if you enrich it with some cream: Egunsifoods African soups, Fairway Markets Manhattan (except Kips Bay) and Red Hook, Brooklyn; $8.99 for 17.3 ounces, $40 for four containers (frozen) from egunsifoods.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Heat: West African Soups To Perk Up Bowls.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MELISSA EDDYJAN. 2, 2018
BERLIN — A right-wing German lawmaker was temporarily blocked by Twitter after she referred to “barbaric, Muslim, rapist hordes of men,” and prosecutors are now looking into whether her remark violated the country’s hate-speech laws.The controversy is the latest to involve the far-right party Alternative for Germany, known by its German initials AfD. The party made big gains in national elections in September, placing third, entering Parliament for the first time and making life extremely difficult for the center-right Christian Democrats, who placed first but are still struggling to form a governing coalition.In a tweet on Sunday, the lawmaker, Beatrix von Storch, questioned the decision by the police in the western city of Cologne to put out a message in Arabic, as part of a multilingual campaign to promote the theme of this year’s New Year’s Eve festivities: “Celebrate — with respect.” The message was also posted in English, French and Persian. The festivities in Cologne, in Germany’s most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia, draw thousands every year.“What the hell is wrong with this country? Why is the official page of police in NRW tweeting in Arabic,” Ms. von Storch wrote on Dec. 31. “Are they seeking to appease the barbaric, Muslim, rapist hordes of men?”AdvertisementThe next day, a new law requiring social media companies to swiftly remove comments flagged as hateful, or face fines of up to 50 million euros, or $57 million, came into effect.AdvertisementTwitter immediately took down the post, and suspended Ms. von Storch’s account for 12 hours. Ms. von Storch then posted on her Facebook page an image of Twitter’s message informing her of its actions. In the caption, she wished her more than 83,500 followers a “Happy New Year in a free country in which everyone can call barbarians barbarians, even if they are Muslims!”Facebook later removed that post, Ms. von Storch told her followers. She vowed not to be silenced by the new law, but to continue to “call out problems by name.” She went on to insist that the young men who had sexually harassed German women were “not Protestant Swedes, not Catholic Poles, not Orthodox Russians, not Jewish Israelis and not Buddhist Thais. The overwhelming majority of them are young Muslim men for whom women and followers of other faiths are second-class citizens.”Ms. von Storch, 46, was a member of the European Parliament until October, when she resigned after her election to the German Parliament. Her comments were particularly provocative because Cologne was the site of a rampage on New Year’s Eve 2015, in which hundreds of men groped, assaulted, harassed or robbed women. Many of the men were asylum-seekers or other immigrants, and the attacks on women fueled criticism by the Alternative for Germany, which argued that Ms. Merkel should not have opened Germany’s doors to so many foreigners.The party ran on a platform arguing that Islam was incompatible with the German Constitution.Ulf Willuhn, a spokesman for state prosecutors, said on Tuesday that his office had been alerted to Ms. von Storch’s statement by the Cologne police and was also looking into a statement of support for her, made by a leader of the party, Alice Weidel. As news of the investigation spread, private citizens filed dozens more complaints.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Unlike the United States, Germany has very strict laws governing hate speech and comments that denigrate ethnic and religious groups, a legacy of its dark, totalitarian past. The new law regarding social media companies solidified the country’s position as one of the most aggressive in moving against online hate speech.Prosecutors must now decide whether there is sufficient evidence of criminal action to open a formal investigation that could lead to charges, Mr. Willuhn said. But before that step can be taken, Germany’s Parliament would have to lift immunity.Many of the Alternative for Germany’s followers are active on social media, and the party claims nearly three times as many followers on Facebook than either of the country’s two largest parties, Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democrats or the center-left Social Democrats.In a message posted to their party’s Twitter feed later Tuesday, the two lawmakers appeared with strips of red tape forming a cross over their lips beside the quote, “Exactly our humor: Call for freedom of speech in Iran and prevent it in Germany.”AdvertisementDigital and human rights groups and others had warned that the new law — which was passed last year, but fully took effect on Monday — placed too much of the burden of patrolling the internet on companies such as Facebook, Twitter, Google and Snapchat. Under the law, the companies are required to to remove any content that is illegal in Germany — such as Nazi symbols or Holocaust denial, but also any remarks that could be considered calling for incitement — within 24 hours of it being brought to their attention.Others have pointed out that the law could lead to mistakes, such as removing messages or videos in which the context is important. Last month, a member of Berlin’s Jewish community had posted a video of an anti-Semitic rant by a German man outside an Israeli restaurant, encouraging people to “pay attention, not look away” as part of efforts to raise awareness about a resurgence in anti-Semitism in the country.Within 24 hours of its posting, Facebook had removed the video and closed the man’s account, citing its content. The company later restored the post and apologized for the error, but only after dozens of users had complained about the decision.Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2018, on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Twitter Suspends German Lawmaker.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Disruptions By                     
 NELLIE BOWLES
 
JAN. 12, 2018
SAN FRANCISCO — I’ve gone gray, and it’s great.In an effort to break my smartphone addiction, I’ve joined a small group of people turning their phone screens to grayscale — cutting out the colors and going with a range of shades from white to black. First popularized by the tech ethicist Tristan Harris, the goal of sticking to shades of gray is to make the glittering screen a little less stimulating.I’ve been gray for a couple days, and it’s remarkable how well it has eased my twitchy phone checking, suggesting that one way to break phone attachment may be to, essentially, make my phone a little worse. We’re simple animals, excited by bright colors, it turns out.Silicon Valley companies like Facebook and Google know this, and they have increasingly been turning to the field of applied neuroscience to see how exactly brains respond to color in the apps, what brings pleasure and what keeps the eye. New research shows how important color is to our understanding of priorities and emotion.But not everyone wants to be so enamored with their screen. This week, two major investors asked Apple to figure out how to help parents limit their children’s use of iPhones and iPads, citing concerns over  “long-term health.” There’s also a growing movement among some early tech employees warning against the products they’ve built. And many consumers are starting to wonder what this is all doing to our minds.AdvertisementMack McKelvey, the chief executive of the marketing firm SalientMG in Washington, D.C., said she’s aware of the tricks phones use to keep you on them longer — and coming back sooner.“You don’t buy black-and-white cereal boxes, you buy the really stimulating colored one, and these apps have developed really cool tiles, cool shapes, cool colors, all designed to stimulate you,” Ms. McKelvey said. “But there’s a vibrant world out there, and my phone shouldn’t be it.”She decided to make the switch to gray as well. But it was trickier than she expected.“It took like 40 minutes to figure it out. They buried the setting,” she said. “You have to really want to do it.” (If you want to try, here are some tips.)AdvertisementOne person Facebook and others turn to is Thomas Z. Ramsoy, the chief executive of Neurons, a four-year-old company based in Copenhagen. His business uses brain scans and eye tracking technology to study apps, updates and future technology. The company often measures the electrical activity of the brain while a consumer is interacting with a phone, such as texting and scrolling Facebook.The goal, Mr. Ramsoy said, is usually for a product to inspire happy emotions and draw attention without freaking a consumer out. For the past year, he said, Facebook has been its largest client, publicizing some of the research. “There is so much business now, we pinch ourselves,” he said.“Color and shape, these are the icebreakers when it comes to grabbing people’s attention, and attention is the new currency,” he said. “Having an interface that grabs people’s attention without disturbing them in the wrong way, without consciously intruding in their space, that’s the fine line.”What going grayscale does, Mr. Ramsoy said, is reintroduce choice.Companies use colors to encourage subconscious decisions, Mr. Ramsoy said. (So that, for example, I may want to open email, but I’ll end up on Instagram, having seen its colorful button.) Making the phone gray eliminates that manipulation. Mr. Ramsoy said it reintroduces “controlled attention.”The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It’s a very good idea,” he said. “You have to take away the sound as well.”One way Silicon Valley could help ease phone addiction is by using a more thoughtful color palette, said Bevil Conway, an investigator at the National Eye Institute, who researches color and emotion.“Color’s not a signal for detecting objects, it’s actually something much more fundamental: It’s for telling us what’s likely to be important,” Mr. Conway said. “If you have lots of color and contrast then you’re under a constant state of attentional recruitment. Your attentional system is constantly going, ‘Look look look over here.’ ”The same way people think about a color scheme when they’re planning the living room décor, Mr. Conway said, they should think about color when it comes to their phone’s home screen too.“If you had a color palette, you would end up with a phone that looked pleasant and was not addictively rewarding, that had some intentionality, but of course nobody wants you to do that,” he said. “Because what they want is for you to look.”Silicon Valley is in a battle for our attention, and often I feel like the last person in charge of my own eyes. After going to grayscale, I’m not a different person all of a sudden, but I feel more in control of my phone, which now looks like a tool rather than a toy. If I unlock it to write an email, I’m a little less likely to forget the goal and tap on Instagram. If I’m waiting in line for coffee, this gray slab is not as delightful a distraction as it once was.AdvertisementThe switch made me realize, in a tangible way, that I still have a little choice here.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page BU3 of the New York edition with the headline: Going Gray to Help Kick the Smartphone Habit.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported by52 Places to Go in 2018Her name is Jada Yuan, and you’ll have all of 2018 to get to know her. Each year, we put together a list of 52 places to inspire travelers for the coming year. This year, we’re actually sending a traveler to each and every place. You have seen some of our favorite submissions (we got 13,000 of them) and perhaps perused this year’s list — now meet the traveler: Jada Yuan. Jada has spent the last decade at New York magazine, covering celebrities, film festivals and presidential conventions. She grew up in northern New Mexico, has a degree in history from Yale University and currently lives in Brooklyn. Not for long, though — her first stop on her journey will be our No. 1 destination, New Orleans.  Follow her on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook as she begins her travels. She will be looking for your advice as she makes her way around the world.Here is a little more from Jada’s submission video on why she thought she would be a great fit for the job. Obviously, we agreed. AdvertisementBy LIAM STACKJAN. 8, 2018
The clothing retailer H&M apologized on Monday for an image appearing in its online store that showed a black child model wearing a hooded sweatshirt that said “coolest monkey in the jungle.” The company removed the image on Monday and said it would also pull the shirt from its stores worldwide.The image was widely criticized online for its reference to a monkey, an animal that has long featured in racial and ethnic slurs. The Weeknd, a Canadian pop star of Ethiopian descent, was one of those who criticized the clothing giant, writing on Twitter that he would decline to work with the company in the future.
            woke up this morning shocked and embarrassed by this photo. i’m deeply offended and will not be working with @hm anymore... pic.twitter.com/P3023iYzAb In a statement, H&M said it agreed with those who were “upset about the image.”“We are deeply sorry that the picture was taken, and we also regret the actual print,” the company said in a statement. “Therefore, we have not only removed the image from our channels, but also the garment from our product offering globally.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As of Monday afternoon, the shirt, without the original model image, was still available for sale on its British site.
            In the year 2018 there’s no way brands/art directors can be this negligent and lack awareness. If look at other sweaters in same category they have white kids. We have to do better. pic.twitter.com/Av4bS4t6yn The company said it would investigate how the image, which appeared in its online store in “some European markets,” and the shirt itself both came to be.Advertisement“It is obvious that our routines have not been followed properly. This is without any doubt,” the company said. “We will thoroughly investigate why this happened to prevent this type of mistake from happening again.”But mistakes like this happen in the world of advertising with some regularity.In October, Dove, the soap company owned by Unilever, apologized for a Facebook ad that showed a black woman removing her brown shirt to reveal a smiling white woman in a crisp white shirt underneath.AdvertisementThe ad was criticized for employing a racist trope that black people could use soap to clean themselves into white people. In a statement at the time, Dove said it was “committed to representing the beauty of diversity” but had “missed the mark” with its ad, which was removed from Facebook.In April, the skin care brand Nivea pulled an ad that used the slogan “white is purity” after it was accused of racial insensitivity (and celebrated by white supremacists.)That same week, Pepsi apologized for a television commercial featuring Kendall Jenner that was criticized for borrowing imagery from the Black Lives Matter movement. Critics said the ad trivialized the protest movement and the killings of black people by the police.A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 2018, on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: Monkey Shirt On H&M; Site Raises Outcry On Internet.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Tech We’re Using By                     
THE NEW YORK TIMES

JAN. 24, 2018
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Nicholas Casey, Andes bureau chief for The Times, based in Medellín, Colombia, discussed the tech he’s using.What are some of the most important tech tools you have relied on as our reporter covering parts of South America? Lately we’ve been having a lot of fun experimenting with drones here, and not just for filming.This summer, I traveled with Ben Solomon into the Peruvian Amazon on a 10-hour journey on a boat to a village along an extremely winding river. Several hours in, we launched the drone. The footage uploads in real time to a display that connects to an iPhone — you can essentially fly up there and have a look around at where you are, see how far you’ve come. Turns out we hadn’t gone all that far: The river is filled with switchbacks over a marshy swamp, so hours on the water doesn’t translate to the longest distance as the crow flies.It was no surprise to us, either, that drone technology was something that had never made it to the village we were working in. So the “flying camera” was quite an attraction when we arrived at our destination.AdvertisementWhat about the tools that you use could be better?Google Maps, for one. I mainly work in the Andes, and most anyone who lives in mountains can tell you that the shortest distance between two points isn’t necessarily the route that you want to take. However, Google doesn’t use local knowledge to calculate directions.Recently at a dinner party in La Paz, Bolivia, a friend told me about heading out of the canyon where the capital dwellers live and up to a concert on the plateau that sits above the city. The route his phone had calculated was on a dirt road that went straight up on a 45-degree angle that people generally walked or went up by mule.AdvertisementIt reminded me of the stories that every correspondent had about using Google or Waze when I used to cover Israel and the Palestinian territories. Your phone would regularly take you in and out of each as if there weren’t a conflict going on, through military checkpoints and down roads that often ended in a wall put up 10 years before. Even if impassable, it was always the shortest route, Google assured.You were barred from Venezuela last year after reporting on the financial crisis there in 2016. You witnessed shortages of food, medical supplies and electricity. What were some of the technology challenges you faced under such tough circumstances?Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A correspondent there warned me before I arrived to bring a Kindle — books were sometimes easier to download than to buy in Caracas, especially best-sellers or anything in English. You also lived in fear of losing things as basic and easy to get as a power cord. Venezuela is a country where people are having trouble finding tires when they get holes in them on the road, let alone Apple products. It is very unfortunate.It’s not uncommon for Venezuelans to come back with a duffel bag filled with just the basics that aren’t for sale in stores anymore: toilet paper, dish detergent, shampoo, sponges. It would get to the point where you were also adding phone chargers, batteries, USB cables, internet routers and anything else you could imagine that plugged into the wall.How has internet connectivity been in the Andes countries, and how do locals use apps or websites like Facebook or Twitter? You’d be surprised how fast the leap to connectivity can be in rural Latin America. It’s a lot faster to get a cellphone tower into a village than the years spent waiting for the state utility to install landlines. Social media has replaced the rumor mill in a lot of villages. Facebook is offering free internet to parts of Latin America — which increases connectivity but also, to Facebook’s aim, trains people to see Facebook as the extent of the internet.AdvertisementHow do governments use tech for surveillance in those places?That’s a question everyone would like to know. Venezuelan spying can be surprisingly low-tech at times — opposition politicians regularly turn on the television to hear embarrassing conversations of their telephone calls being aired to the public. It seems a bit of a throwback to the Soviet Union in some ways, rather than Pegasus and the other recent spyware that governments usually reach for.It’s effective, though. Many conversations just don’t happen over the phone, and we find another place to communicate where there’s encryption, like Telegram.Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life?Netflix. There seem to be 10 times more offerings in Latin America than the United States, including many movies that are blocked back home and that I can only rent on iTunes. I would urge anyone who wants to spend days watching good films not available in America to set his or her VPN to Colombia and have a look.Follow Nicholas Casey on Twitter: @caseysjournal.A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Explore With Drones, but Ignore Google Maps.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Article of the Day By                     
 CAROLINE CROSSON GILPIN
 
JAN. 3, 2018
Before reading the article: Do you know anyone who doesn’t speak to his or her parents, or siblings? What is that person’s story, and what do you think about it?How common do you think family estrangement is, and what are some of the reasons behind it?Now, read the article, “Debunking Myths About Estrangement,” and answer the following questions: 1. What have researchers discovered about family estrangement over the last five years?2. How is estrangement defined?3. What countries are focusing on estrangement research, and what are the details of those studies?4. What are two myths about estrangement mentioned in the article, and what are the facts and discoveries that debunk those myths?5. What are the three main reasons adults report being estranged from parents?Finally, tell us more about what you think: Do you think reconnection and reconciliation should be a goal in cases of family estrangement? If so, why? If not, why not?How does social media complicate or ease family estrangement, and why?For more from The Times on the topic, see “Negotiating Conflicts, Part 1: Family Grudges,” from 2013, and “In the Facebook Era, Reminders of Loss After Families Fracture,” from 2012.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By GABE COHNJAN. 20, 2018
Sir David Attenborough returns to host “Blue Planet II,” and average citizens are thrust into an international incident in “False Flag.”PLANET EARTH: BLUE PLANET II 9 p.m. on BBC America. “Never has there been a more crucial time to reveal what is going on beneath the surface of the seas,” Sir David Attenborough says in the introduction of this sequel to the blockbuster nature series “The Blue Planet.” It arms itself with a more direct appeal for conservation than its predecessor did, but it’s still mostly observational — and what a spectacle to observe! Dolphins, giant turtles and coral reefs are all captured in impossibly clear shots. Despite the high production values, there’s a sense of primal delight, evident in an early scene featuring a pod of dolphins as they ride the waves in the Red Sea. “They surf,” says Mr. Attenborough, “And, as far as we can tell, they do so for the sheer joy of it.”SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE 11:30 p.m. on NBC. Jessica Chastain, who recently starred in “Molly’s Game,” will host “S.N.L.” for the first time. The Australian singer-songwriter Troye Sivan (whom The New York Times’s Jon Caramanica called “an easeful polymath who manages to make big moments feel intimate”) is the musical guest.THE SOCIAL NETWORK (2010) 11 p.m. on TNT. The fable of a Harvard underclassman taking some equations written on his dorm window, drinking a few beers and spawning a world-altering social network is by now a well-known origin tale. And the Winklevoss twins, whose lawsuit against the Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg over the creation of the social media platform helps provide the narrative backbone of this film, have moved on to Bitcoin trading. But given that the scope of Facebook’s influence is the topic of more discussion than ever, it’s a particularly interesting time to revisit this fictionalized version of the social network’s story, directed by David Fincher. Jesse Eisenberg was nominated for an Academy Award for his role as Mr. Zuckerburg, Armie Hammer plays both Winklevoss twins and Andrew Garfield portrays the other Facebook co-founder, Eduardo Saverin. In her review for The Times, Manohla Dargis called the film “a resonant contemporary story about the new power elite and an older, familiar narrative of ambition, except instead of discovering his authentic self, Mark builds a database, turning his life — and ours — into zeros and ones, which is what makes it also a story about the human soul.”FALSE FLAG on Hulu. A preschool teacher, a chemist and a bride walk into a motel room and kidnap an Iranian government minister. Or do they? This Israeli series is loosely based on the 2010 assassination of Mahmoud al-Mabhouh, a Hamas official who was murdered by a team of killers who used fake passports. It follows five people whose identities were on the passports connected to an international incident, and who then get thrust into it. In his review for The Times, Mike Hale wrote that it’s “the kind of solid psychological action thriller that Israeli TV regularly provides.”A version of this schedule appears in print on January 20, 2018, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s on Saturday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Cheney OrrCheney Orr was 21 when his father received a diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer’s disease in 2011. His father, David, was just 62, and the son felt he had never quite known him as an adult. The camera offered a way to bridge that gap. It was an excuse to visit regularly and a portal through which to understand the disease.“There was also a level of guilt just to spend more time with him and get him out of his isolating hole of an apartment,” the younger Mr. Orr, who is now 27, said.Alzheimer’s presented a story with characters and plot twists. There were the attendants who watched David Orr around the clock, and a padlock that went up on the door after Mr. Orr wandered from the apartment a few times, a phenomenon that is given the discordant name of elopement.As the illness progressed, David Orr seemed to grow more comfortable with the camera and to understand why his son was taking pictures, but it was hard to know for sure, Cheney Orr said.“His ability to communicate in any form was really deteriorating,” Mr. Orr said. “He was also starting to get severe anxiety and panic attacks that would sometimes last almost all day.”Yet nearly to the end, David Orr, who grew up in the deserts of Arizona, became a different person in the water, of all places. His muscle memory worked with a vigor that was impervious to the disease. “Even when things like tying his shoes or buttoning his coat became difficult, he could still swim faster than people half his age,” his son said.And finally, when he often did not recognize even the people closest to him, “ ‘Thank you’ and ‘I love you’ were things he could say,” his son said.David Orr died at home in Brooklyn on May 1 of last year, at 69, among his three children and his ex-wife, Masha Hamilton. Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher Gallery
New Sentences By                     
 SAM ANDERSON
 
JAN. 19, 2018
— From “The Juniper Tree” (NYRB Classics, 2018, Page 10), by Barbara Comyns. “The Juniper Tree” was the English writer’s ninth book, originally published in 1985 by Methuen.Sometimes a sentence has such a powerful structure it can become a kind of parlor game. This one rolls along happily for 15 words, parceling out a perfectly logical string of information — Christmas, birthday, presents — until suddenly that very last word snaps like the end of a whip, reversing the meaning of everything. Presents become punishments. Celebrations become rebukes. Holidays become theaters of quiet savagery.After I read this sentence many times in a row, smiling every time, eventually its structure detached from its words: “At X and on Y, I Z as if not-Z.” That formula got stuck in my head like a little musical phrase. I started to fill it in with other words.At lunch and at dinner I ate fresh fruits as if they were vegetables.On the beach and by the pool I wore my Speedo as if it were a tuxedo.AdvertisementBefore long, I was using it to create sentences that actually applied to my life:On television and on the internet I received breaking news as if it were strychnine.On Twitter and on Facebook I clicked “like” as if it were hate.On my phone and on my laptop I opened emails as if they were overdue bills.In the magazine and on the website I wrote sentences as if they were push-ups.AdvertisementSoon I was carrying this structure with me everywhere, applying it involuntarily to everything I saw. “In the dining room and in the entryway I stacked books as if they were firewood.” It had begun to torture me, like a too-catchy song. And so now I am passing it on to you.Sam Anderson is a staff writer for the magazine.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page MM15 of the Sunday Magazine.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CECILIA KANGJAN. 8, 2018
The popular electronic toymaker VTech Electronics agreed to pay $650,000 to settle charges that it had collected digital data on children without parents’ permission and failed to keep that information secure from hackers, the Federal Trade Commission said Monday.It was the first enforcement action against a company that makes internet-connected toys by the F.T.C., which has received several complaints about privacy violations and online advertising aimed at children. Some child advocates have complained that the agency has been slow to respond to the complaints, which cover a variety of products including toys and apps for smartphones and tablets.The F.T.C. said that the action against VTech, a Hong Kong-based maker of online apps and toys, showed the agency’s dedication to child safety and privacy issues — particularly given the fast growth of the connected toy market.“As connected toys become increasingly popular, it’s more important than ever that companies let parents know how their kids’ data is collected and used and that they take reasonable steps to secure that data,” said Maureen K. Ohlhausen, the commission’s acting chairwoman. “Unfortunately, VTech fell short in both of these areas.”AdvertisementThe agency said in its complaint that VTech had collected data about more than 638,000 children — including text messages, photos, and audio messages — without notifying users or asking parents for permission to collect that information. The company was accused of violating the 1998 Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, which requires parents to give permission for a company to collect internet data on children under the age of 13.AdvertisementThe F.T.C. also accused the company of having inadequately secured its network in 2015, when  VTech’s servers were hacked. Personal information of children — including email addresses, names and gender — were stolen during the breach. The company did not, for example, encrypt information transmitted through some of its online services, the F.T.C. said in its complaint.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The company, which sells numerous electronic devices geared toward children, said it has updated its privacy policies to comply with privacy and security laws.“Following the cyber attack incident, we updated our data security policy and adopted rigorous measures to strengthen the protection of our customers’ data,” said Allan Wong, the chairman of VTech Holdings Limited. Mr. Wong said the company had also taken steps to address issues associated with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act.Numerous technology companies, including Facebook and Google, have been pushing to reach younger audiences with their products. Facebook recently announced a messenger service for children as young as 6 and Google introduced YouTube Kids in 2015. The services have set off debate about what digital tools are appropriate for children and what companies were doing to prevent abuse.Marc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, said that the F.T.C. has moved slowly in investigating VTech, a company whose conduct was brought to the agency’s attention in 2015.“This is good news that the F.T.C. finally took action but we feel like they are moving too slow and clearly following and not leading,” Mr. Rotenberg said.A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Toymaker VTech Settles  In Child Privacy Law Case.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MELISSA EDDYJAN. 4, 2018
BERLIN — Within hours of her birth, 47 minutes into 2018, little Asel had attracted the attention of her home city, Vienna, as the Austrian capital’s “New Year’s Baby.”But instead of good wishes from the citizens who read her birth announcement, splashed across Austrian newspapers on New Year’s Day, the little girl and her family were greeted with a wave of racism, disgust and hate.Public announcements of “New Year’s Babies,” complete with images of beaming parents holding their offspring born shortly after New Year’s Eve, are an annual mainstay of newspapers throughout the German-speaking world.But internet rights and refugee support groups say they had never seen a wave of hate directed at an infant to compare with the one that met Asel and her parents, identified by the newspaper Heute as Naime and Alper Tamga.Advertisement“In the first hours of her life, this sweet girl was already the target of an unbelievable wave of violent, hateful online commentary,” Klaus Schwertner, secretary general of the Vienna chapter of the Roman Catholic charity Caritas, wrote on his Facebook page.“It is a completely new dimension of online hate, targeting an innocent newborn,” he said.Many of the comments that filled the social media pages of Austrian media outlets that carried the picture of Asel’s family, released by the Vienna Hospital Association, also targeted the baby’s mother, whose smiling face was encircled by a bright pink head scarf.“I’m hoping for a crib death,” wrote one user. “Deport the scum immediately,” read another posting to Heute’s Facebook page, it reported on Thursday.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many of the messages have since been taken down, but the paper said they were being examined to see if they had broken laws against inciting hatred or against hate speech.Not all of the comments were negative, and some users drew a parallel between the online uproar over the image of the young Muslim and the entry of the far-right Freedom Party into the country’s new right-leaning government, sworn in weeks before her birth. Both the Freedom Party and the conservative People’s Party of Chancellor Sebastian Kurz campaigned on anti-immigrant platforms, and the new government has vowed to cut monetary benefits to refugees and curb illegal immigration.AdvertisementNevertheless, Mr. Schwertner sought to turn the sentiment around, calling on his followers to stand up for the young family in an outpouring of social media support. By Thursday, more than 10,000 people had shared his message and more than 17,000 people posted hearts, along with words of congratulations, support and encouragement.“Welcome to the world little one. May your life be blessed with love and peace,” Liesbeth Halbertsma wrote on Facebook. “I know it doesn’t always look like that in the world ... but there is so much beauty and love. Sending you much love.”Barbara Unterlechner, the director of a center that provides legal counseling and support, #GegenHassimNetz, or “Against Online Hate,” said that since the arrival of hundreds of thousands of migrants seeking asylum two years ago, Austria had seen a rise in racist commentary and hate speech on the internet. More than 145,000 people, many from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, have applied for asylum in Austria since 2015, according to government figures.“A certain stereotype about Muslims has become increasingly common on social media,” Ms. Unterlechner said in a telephone interview from Vienna. “Whether refugees or those wearing head scarves, there is no differentiation, but anyone appearing to be Muslim is cast as an enemy of our culture.”It was not yet clear whether any of the comments would lead to legal complaints, Ms. Unterlechner said. But she was encouraged by how many people had responded to Mr. Schwertner’s call for support, given how challenging it could be for prosecutors to follow up on a wave of hate postings.“Hate speech is ultimately a social problem, which can’t always be solved by the law,” Ms. Unterlechner said. “So it can be helpful to change the direction of the conversation online.”Follow Melissa Eddy on Twitter: @meddynyt.A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Vienna Welcomes 2018 Baby  With Online Hate and Racism.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »

 Farhad Manjoo
 

STATE OF THE ART
JAN. 17, 2018
It’s not Apple’s fault that you feel enslaved by your phone. But the company that gave the world the modern smartphone has a perfect opportunity this year to create a brave and groundbreaking new take on that device: a phone that encourages you to use it more thoughtfully, more deliberately — and a lot less.Tech “addiction” is a topic of rising national concern. I put the A-word in quotes because the precise pull that our phones exert over us isn’t the same as that of drugs or alcohol. The issue isn’t really new, either; researchers who study how we use digital technology have for years been warning of its potential negative effects on our cognition, psyche and well-being.What is new is who has joined the ranks of the worried. Recently, a parade of tech luminaries, including several former Facebook employees, have argued that we’re no match for the sophisticated machinery of engagement and persuasion being built into smartphone apps. Their fears are manifold: They’re worried about distraction, productivity, how social networks alter our emotional lives and relationships, and what they’re doing to children.It’s hard to know what to make of these confessions of regret. Come on, guys — you gave us these wondrous machines, you made billions of dollars from their ubiquity, and now you tell us they’re bad?AdvertisementAlso, what do we do about it?Like air pollution or intrusive online advertising, tech addiction is a collective-action problem caused by misaligned incentives. Companies that make money from your attention — that is, ad-supported apps like Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and YouTube — now employ armies of people who work with supercomputers to hook you ever more deeply into their services. Sure, we should call on them to act more ethically — and Facebook, for its part, has said it’s willing to lose money to improve its users’ well-being — but I’m skeptical they’ll be able to suppress their economic interests.AdvertisementGovernment regulation and more restraint from users might also help, but the former is unlikely and the latter is insufficient. So who’s left?The same company that always seems to turn up when it’s time to cross into a new era of technology: Apple.I got to thinking about Apple’s responsibility last week when two large investors wrote an open letter asking the company to do more about its products’ effects on children. I was initially inclined to dismiss the letter as a publicity stunt; if you’re worried about children and tech, why not go after Facebook?But when I called several experts, I found they agreed with the investors. Sure, they said, Apple isn’t responsible for the excesses of the digital ad business, but it does have a moral responsibility to — and a business interest in — the well-being of its customers.And there’s another, more important reason for Apple to take on tech addiction: because it would probably do an elegant job of addressing the problem.“I do think this is their time to step up,” said Tristan Harris, a former design ethicist at Google who now runs Time Well Spent, an organization working to improve technology’s impact on society.“In fact,” Mr. Harris added, “they may be our only hope.”For one thing, Apple’s business model does not depend on tech addiction. The company makes most of its money by selling premium devices at high profit margins. Yes, it needs to make sure you find your phone useful enough to buy the next one, but after you purchase your phone and sign up for some of its premium services, Apple doesn’t really need you to overdo it. Indeed, because it can’t make infinite battery life, Apple would probably be O.K. if you cooled it with your phone a little.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Yet even though Apple is not part of the ad business, it exerts lots of control over it. Every tech company needs a presence on the iPhone or iPad; this means that Apple can set the rules for everyone. With a single update to its operating system and its app store, Apple could curb some of the worst excesses in how apps monitor and notify you to keep you hooked (as it has done, for instance, by allowing ad blockers in its mobile devices). And because other smartphone makers tend to copy Apple’s best inventions, whatever it did to curb our dependence on our phones would be widely emulated.AdvertisementMr. Harris suggested several ideas for Apple to make a less-addictive smartphone. For starters, Apple could give people a lot more feedback about how they’re using their devices.Imagine if, once a week, your phone gave you a report on how you spent your time, similar to how your activity tracker tells you how sedentary you were last week. It could also needle you: “Farhad, you spent half your week scrolling through Twitter. Do you really feel proud of that?” It could offer to help: “If I notice you spending too much time on Snapchat next week, would you like me to remind you?”Another idea is to let you impose more fine-grained controls over notifications. Today, when you let an app send you mobile alerts, it’s usually an all-or-nothing proposition — you say yes to letting it buzz you, and suddenly it’s buzzing you all the time.Mr. Harris suggested that Apple could require apps to assign a kind of priority level to their notifications. “Let’s say you had three notification levels — heavy users, regular users and lite, or Zen,” Mr. Harris said.Apple could set rules for what kind of notifications were allowed in each bucket — for instance, the medium bucket might allow notifications generated by other people (like a direct message in Instagram) but not those from the app itself (Instagram just sending you an alert to remind you that your high school friend’s mom’s brother posted a new picture recently).“And then Apple could say, by default, everyone is in the middle level — and instantly it could save a ton of users a ton of energy in dealing with this,” Mr. Harris said.There’s a danger that some of these anti-addiction efforts could get too intrusive. But that’s also why Apple would shine here; building a less-addictive phone is chiefly a problem of interface design, which is basically Apple’s entire corporate raison d’être.AdvertisementAnother thing that Apple is good at is marketing, and I suspect it could make a lot of gauzy ads showing people getting more out of iPhones and iPads by unplugging from them for a little while. Note that it already sells a device, the Apple Watch, whose marketing extols the magic of leaving your phone behind.Done right, a full-fledged campaign pushing the benefits of a more deliberative approach to tech wouldn’t come off as self-interest, but in keeping with Apple’s best vision of itself — as a company that looks out for the interests of humanity in an otherwise cold and sometimes inhumane industry.“How we live with technology is the cultural issue of the next half-century,” said James Steyer, the founder and chief executive of Common Sense Media, a nonprofit group that studies how children are affected by media.He suggested that the feeling was ripe for Apple to tap into. “It’s something that everyone cares about — whether you’re a Republican or a Democrat, liberal or conservative, whether you live in San Francisco or Biloxi, Miss., you know that you and your kids are part of the arms race for attention,” he said.Apple released a statement last week saying it cared deeply “about how our products are used and the impact they have on users and the people around them,” adding that it had a few features on addiction in the works.Apple hardly ever talks about future products, so it declined to elaborate on any of its ideas when I called. Let’s hope it’s working on something grand.Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjooA version of this article appears in print on January 18, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: It’s Time for a Lot Less iPhone.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CECILIA KANGJAN. 5, 2018
WASHINGTON — An industry group that represents the country’s biggest technology companies said on Friday that it planned to join a looming legal fight against the Federal Communications Commission over its repeal of so-called net neutrality rules.In its announcement, the group, the Internet Association, made clear for the first time that Facebook, Google, Netflix and other large tech firms would put their reputations and financial clout behind the challenge.Lawsuits seeking to block the commission’s new policy, which was approved in December, are expected in the weeks ahead, once the rules take effect. The rules will let internet service providers block online content, or charge websites for faster delivery to consumers, by rolling back the protections against such actions that were adopted in 2015.Several public interest groups, including Free Press and Public Knowledge, and some start-ups had announced plans to challenge the commission’s move weeks ago, but the Internet Association had been undecided about how to respond. Before the commission voted on the repeal, some of America’s biggest tech companies, Facebook and Google in particular, took a back seat during public protests over the issue.AdvertisementOn Friday, a day after the commission released the 539-page final rules, the Internet Association said it would join the coming legal case against them.Advertisement“The rule defies the will of a bipartisan majority of Americans and fails to preserve a free and open internet,” Michael Beckerman, the association’s chief executive, said on Friday.Netflix, whose data-heavy video streams could face extra charges by internet service providers, also said it would support a legal challenge.“In 2018, the Internet is united in defense of #NetNeutrality. As for the FCC, we will see you in court,” the company said in a message posted on Twitter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The issue of regulating internet service providers to maintain an open internet has wound through the courts and the commission for more than a decade. The repeal in December, led by Ajit Pai, the commission chairman, attracted strong opposition.Mr. Pai has said the new rules would encourage more investment and innovation by internet service providers. He has also argued that the change would withstand any legal challenge, as it essentially restores the rules to what they were before 2015.The commission declined to comment on Friday.Democratic lawmakers in Washington hope to reverse the commission’s action by using the Congressional Review Act, and they have introduced numerous bills that could replace the agency’s rules, although the prospects for those efforts appear weak. States lawmakers in California, New York and Washington are also considering bills that would recreate the 2015 net- neutrality rules in those states.Public interest groups are trying to make net neutrality an issue in this year’s midterm elections. They have deployed text and email campaigns meant to pressure lawmakers to support a congressional reversal of the commission’s action.“We’ll be going to court soon to challenge the F.C.C. and ramping up pressure on Congress to throw the rules out altogether,” said Craig Aaron, president of Free Press. Mr. Pai, he said, had “awakened the public.”The strong response to the repeal has also led to some safety concerns. At the commission meeting where the new rules were approved, law enforcement officials briefly cleared the room to address an unspecified security issue.AdvertisementMr. Pai canceled a scheduled appearance at the tech industry’s CES trade show next week. The commission declined to say why he would not attend, but has previously confirmed that he and his family had recently received threats by phone and email over the net neutrality issue.A version of this article appears in print on January 6, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Big Tech to Fight Net Neutrality Repeal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JOHN KOBLINJAN. 5, 2018
PASADENA, Calif. — Too many TV shows to choose from?You’re not alone.At least 487 original scripted programs aired in 2017, the latest record-breaking figure for the TV industry, according to data released Friday by the cable network FX.That was more than the 455 shows that broadcast in 2016, more than the 288 in 2012 and far more than the 182 from 15 years ago.The staggering growth largely comes from the seemingly endless budget lines that help produce new shows for streaming services. Netflix, for example, has said it will spend a $8 billion on content this year.In 2013, the year that Netflix’s “House of Cards” premiered, online services distributed only 24 original programs. In 2017, that number skyrocketed to 117.AdvertisementOthers are responsible, too, though. In the last five years, premium cable has seen 45 percent growth in the number of original programs and basic cable networks a 40 percent rise, and even the broadcast networks have grown by 29 percent, according to FX. This doesn’t even include the large number of non-scripted reality or documentary series.AdvertisementPopular new shows this past year included Hulu’s “The Handmaid’s Tale,” ABC’s “The Good Doctor” and HBO’s “Big Little Lies.” And consider that “Big Little Lies” was supposed to be a one-and-done series, but that it proved so successful that HBO executives — who, like their counterparts at just about every other network, are hungry for content — announced that the show would get a second season. Even lesser-known shows are plugging along. “Fuller House,” a Netflix revival of the old ABC family sitcom, released its third season, to little fanfare, last year.Not long ago, there was real self-reflection within the TV industry about whether too much television was a good thing. With more programming and plenty of other digital distractions like Facebook and Instagram, traditional ratings were falling and executives and producers were openly complaining about just how hard it was to get their shows in front of people. And what to do about bingeing?“Someone will tweet me, and they will be, like, ‘I watched all four seasons in two days,’” the Australian comedian Josh Thomas said last year about his show, “Please Like Me.” “That took me five years to fill that two days,” he added, with an expletive for emphasis.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, the freewheeling spending of the streaming services has prompted more networks to spend more than they usually would. (A respectable drama costs at least $3 million an episode to make.) It is not clear just how many players will be able to sustain that pace.“There’s no question that the streaming services are putting an enormous amount of pressure on the business model,” John Landgraf, the chief executive of FX, said at a news media event on Friday.Indeed, last year some cable networks, like WGN and A&E, said they were abandoning scripted content because the finances made no sense. Short of a major hit, it’s difficult to justify the costs. Netflix even began canceling  some original shows last year, including “The Get Down,” a pricey 1970s music drama.But cancellations have done little to stop the glut of programming.Netflix keeps ramping up elsewhere, and the proposed merger between 21st Century Fox and Disney all but assures more of a full-out fight for content. Also, three digital titans — Apple, Facebook and Google — are aggressively entering the TV fray. With all of this content, there remain three players that make what are perceived to be the best TV shows, at least in the past year.AdvertisementFX, HBO and Netflix accounted for 55 percent of the shows on critics’ best-of-2017 lists, according to FX. Netflix had 24 percent, HBO 21 percent and FX 10 percent. The rest were distributed by dozens of other TV networks, like NBC, Showtime, Hulu and AMC.A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: With More TV Shows Than Ever Vying for Eyeballs, It’s Harder to Break Through.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NORM ALSTERJAN. 12, 2018
Index-based investing is appealing partly because it promises to simplify decision-making. Buy a fund that tracks a major index like the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and you can sit back knowing you don’t have to switch in and out of sectors and stocks.You own a balanced portfolio that should perform well in all sorts of market conditions.But do you really?If you think you’re protected from market swings by holding index-based investments, think again.The central story of 2017’s thundering bull market was the relentless advance of shares of fast-growing companies, particularly in the technology industry. The so-called Faang stocks (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google) rose so far so fast that index-based investments that were once balanced now seem top-heavy with risky highfliers. Faang stocks made up just 6 percent of the S.&.P. 500 in 2013. By the end of last year, they accounted for 12.3 percent, noted Joe Abbott, chief quantitative strategist with Yardeni Research.Over all, large growth stocks soared 25.4 percent in 2017. Large value stocks, whose earnings and revenue grow more slowly and which are typically cheaper by such metrics as price-to-earnings ratio, tacked on 12.6 percent.AdvertisementSo is now the time to rebalance by adding value and trimming growth?For investors with long horizons, “rebalancing is an excellent strategy,” said Chris Brightman, chief investment officer for Research Affiliates. “Wealth is built long term with periodic rebalancing,” he added.AdvertisementOne way to offset the heavy weighting of tech stocks in exchange-traded funds and index funds that reflect market advances is through an index like the Guggenheim Equal Weight S.&.P. 500 E.T.F., Mr. Brightman said. Equal weight indexes own the same amount of all stocks and so are not overexposed to market highfliers. Over the last decade, the S.&.P. 500 Equal Weight index has returned just over 10 percent annually, while the market-cap-weighted S.&.P. 500. has returned less than 9 percent annually.See how the largest, leading and lagging funds compare.Find funds by their type, performance, risk or expenses.For more fund information, search morningstar.com.Tom Galvin is lead manager of the Columbia Select Large Cap Growth fund. Though his mandate requires holding growth companies, he has been lightening up on some highfliers. “We have been trimming back some of the winners,” Mr. Galvin said. The fund has sold off roughly 20 percent of its Amazon stock and roughly one-third of its position in Facebook, he said.Still, Mr. Galvin emphasizes that the tech rabbits have raced ahead largely because they’ve met or exceeded expectations. Apple’s year-over-year revenue growth has accelerated in recent quarters. Apple cited its revived strength in China, along with better-than-expected unit sales of iPhones, iPads and Macs, in its most recent quarterly report.Similarly, a year ago, analysts expected Facebook to earn about $4 a share over the next 12 months, Mr. Galvin said. But Facebook succeeded so well in making its gigantic membership an audience for ads, it earned over $5 a share in the last four quarters.Growth stocks may also have fared well because they are suited to current economic conditions. “I think growth stocks do very well in a low-inflation environment, when pricing power is elusive and therefore unit growth is the key driver to profit growth,” Mr. Galvin said. There is a flip side, though: “If you felt strongly we were moving to a sustained reflationary environment, you’d want more value,” he added.Sebastien Page, head of the Global Multi-Asset division within T. Rowe Price, also sees merit in increasing value holdings. “As a general statement, value should benefit more than growth from the tax cut,” he said. Financial companies, typically considered value stocks, pay relatively high taxes and will benefit from a tax cut.But because the market has risen almost nonstop since 2009, value stocks are also fairly expensive, some argue. “You don’t want to buy your beaten down, distressed deep value stocks,” said Mike Fleisher, lead portfolio manager of the Legg Mason BW Dynamic Large Cap Value fund. “You want to buy a value stock with a catalyst.”Mr. Fleisher cited Citigroup as a worthwhile stock. “They’re buying back shares,” he noted. “Our quantitative research finds that when a company has bought back shares over the previous 12 months, it tends to outperform the next 12 months,” he said.AdvertisementFor investors disinclined to pick through hundreds of stocks to find the right value catalyst, there is another way to rebalance. Mr. Page of T. Rowe Price favors stocks in Europe, Japan, Australia and Canada. “Non-U.S. stocks have only been this cheap relative to U.S. stocks 7 percent of the time in the last 15 years,” he explained. Two E.T.F.s that invest in such developed market stocks are the iShares MSCI EAFE E.T.F. and the Vanguard FTSE Developed Markets E.T.F.Mr. Brightman also favors rebalancing across more than just the growth-value axis. “Every sector of the U.S. stock market is expensive,” he said. “The fascination of the public with a narrow group of tech stocks is beginning to look a little bubbly.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.So-called value stocks are also no bargain, he said. “You will not escape a bear market by being in value stocks,” Mr. Brightman said.The market won’t necessarily decline simply because prices are high, he added. “It just means over the longer term you would get lower returns,” he said.Mr. Brightman urges very broad diversification. He includes United States equities, other developed market equities, emerging market stocks, real estate investment trusts, commodities and government bonds.“If you have a long horizon, equal weighting and rebalancing are your friends,” he said.A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page BU16 of the New York edition with the headline: Tech Giants’ Rise Gives Rebalancing a New Appeal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MATTHEW HAAGDEC. 31, 2017
In the weeks before their family trip to Costa Rica, Bruce and Irene Steinberg of Scarsdsale, N.Y., told friends and family how excited they were to take their three sons on an adventure through that country’s lush forests and tropical beaches.After visiting the Pacific coast, the Steinbergs were headed on Sunday to Costa Rica’s capital for the last stop of their trip. But the single-engine plane carrying the Steinbergs — along with four members of another family, the Weisses from Belleair, Fla., as well as a 10th American passenger and two Costa Rican crew members — crashed that afternoon into a mountain shortly after takeoff, killing everyone on board, the authorities said.Officials in Guanacaste, a popular region on the Pacific coast for tourists, responded to reports shortly after noon of smoke and flames rising from a wooded area near Punta Islita Airport. Emergency responders found the charred wreckage of a Cessna plane operated by the regional airline Nature Air and the burned remains of those who had been on board.“The government of Costa Rica deeply regrets the death of 10 American passengers and two Costa Rican pilots in the aircraft crash,” Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, the country’s president, said in a Facebook post on Sunday evening.AdvertisementThe State Department said it was aware of the crash and was working with the aviation authorities in Costa Rica. “We express our condolences to all those affected by this tragedy,” a spokeswoman said in an email.AdvertisementThe crash left craters of anguish and grief in New York and Florida.In a phone interview, Rabbi Jacob Luski of Congregation B’nai Israel of St. Petersburg, Fla., said that a relative of the Weiss family had confirmed the deaths of Mitchell Weiss, 52; his wife, Leslie L. Weiss, 50; their daughter, Hannah M. Weiss, 19; and their son, Ari M. Weiss, 16.“They were together and they all perished,” he said. “It is a terrible tragedy and it is a devastating loss to their families and to our congregation.”A sister of Mr. Steinberg confirmed Sunday night in a Facebook post that her brother and his family had died in the crash. A relative who answered the phone at Mr. Steinberg’s parents’ home in Florida confirmed that the Steinbergs lived in Scarsdale, a suburb north of New York City, with their sons William, Zachary and Matthew.“They were the kind of people you would like to have many of,” the relative said before saying she had to hang up. “They always did everything as a family.”Lyn Kaller, a close friend of Ms. Steinberg who also lives in Scarsdale, said she learned of the plane crash in a text message from a rabbi in Costa Rica on Sunday afternoon. “Something happened to the Steinbergs,” the rabbi wrote.Ms. Kaller said she immediately called the man, who told her that the plane the family was on had crashed after takeoff, but she did not believe him until her son found a news story online about the accident.In the hours after the crash, Ms. Kaller said that an official with a United States consulate in Costa Rica also contacted her about the crash. The Steinbergs had many friends in Scarsdale, she said, so why the rabbi and government official contacted her had become another mystery in Sunday’s tragedy.AdvertisementMr. Steinberg worked in investment banking, and Ms. Steinberg volunteered at many nonprofits, Ms. Kaller said. She said she met Ms. Steinberg about 14 years ago when Matthew Steinberg and her son, Noah, attended nursery school at Westchester Reform Temple in Scarsdale.Matthew was an eighth-grader at a private school, William attended the University of Pennsylvania and Zachary was at Johns Hopkins University, Ms. Kaller said. She said that their parents made an effort to expose them to cultures all over the world. It was a trip to Asia in a previous year, and the latest was the vacation to Costa Rica.“Irene and Bruce felt very strongly about providing that kind of culture and enrichment for their children,” she said in an interview.Aviation and security officials in Costa Rica told local news media on Sunday that the cause of the crash was unknown but that the Nature Air plane encountered inclement weather on Sunday when it first tried to land in Punta Islita to pick up the American passengers. The plane returned to another airport before it eventually landed in Punta Islita around 11 a.m., the country’s civil aviation director told the newspaper El Mundo.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After the pilots picked up the American passengers, the plane took off for San José, the capital, which is about 140 miles east, the authorities said. Photos posted by government officials on Facebook show that the Cessna plane crashed several hundred yards from the end of a runway at Punta Islita Airport.Laura Chinchilla, the president of Costa Rica from 2010 to 2014, said on Twitter that her cousin was one of the crew members killed in the crash.Costa Rica, particularly its pristine beaches and mountains on the Pacific coast, is popular with North American and European tourists. More tourists visit Costa Rica from America than any other country. Eco-tourism is a major draw, and Nature Air bills itself as the first carbon-neutral airline in the world.In September, an American and another passenger on a Nature Air flight died when a single-engine Cessna crashed in a river in Guanacaste. Another American on the flight was injured.Christine Hauser contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on January 1, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: New York Family Among 10 Americans Killed in a Costa Rica Plane Crash.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JACEY FORTINJAN. 11, 2018
A woman who appeared to be wearing nothing but socks and a hospital gown was discharged from a Baltimore hospital on a cold winter night and left alone at a bus stop.A passer-by filmed the woman late Tuesday evening and posted several videos on Facebook shortly after midnight. In them, people in dark uniforms can be seen walking into the University of Maryland Medical Center’s Midtown Campus with an empty wheelchair, leaving the woman alone on the sidewalk.The woman appears to have trouble keeping her balance and communicating. She barely speaks during the videos, which total about 11 minutes. But she does scream, and her breath condenses in the cold air in front of her.The man filming, Imamu Baraka, finds her belongings in plastic bags at the bus stop and encourages her to sit down.Advertisement“This is disgusting that they would just leave her unattended on a bus stop, half naked,” he said in the video. “And it’s got to be at least 40 degrees, if not colder.”Mr. Baraka, who did not immediately respond to requests for comment, stopped filming and called emergency responders. An ambulance eventually arrived to take the woman back to the hospital.Advertisement“We share the shock and disappointment of many who have viewed the video showing the discharge of a patient” from emergency care, a hospital spokeswoman said in an emailed statement on Thursday. “This unfortunate event is not representative of our patient-centered mission. For this, we are truly sorry.”She added that a review was underway to evaluate “the appropriate response, including the possibility of personnel action.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The hospital spokeswoman did not comment on what the woman had been treated for, citing patient privacy laws.The practice of discharging patients who may not have a place to go is sometimes referred to as “patient-dumping,” and it has happened across the country. The issue comes up often in California, which is home to more than one-quarter of the total homeless population in the United States.Mr. Baraka, who said in the video that he is a psychotherapist, said the woman should not have been discharged in the first place.“I am still looking at this, and I am really wondering as to what’s going to happen here,” he added. “I’m disgusted by the lack of empathy that I’m seeing displayed.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MARGAUX LASKEYJAN. 9, 2018
When Marcella Hazan, the cookbook author who revolutionized the way Americans cook Italian food, died in September 2013, The Times asked readers to submit their favorites of her recipes. Many wrote in to sing the praises of her famous (and contentious) red sauce made with just four ingredients — tomatoes, a stick of butter, an onion and salt — and others gushed about her roast chicken with lemons, pork braised in milk and minestrone.Still more answered with one word: Bolognese. One reader called Ms. Hazan’s meat sauce from “The Classic Italian Cookbook,” her 1973 debut, “the gold standard.”It’s that ideal cold-weather recipe that we reintroduce to you here. If you’re not familiar with Italian recipes for Bolognese, be warned: It is not the traditional Italian-American meat sauce, punctuated by strong notes of tomato, garlic and oregano. Hers is influenced by the flavors of northern Italy (particularly the city of Bologna), so there is no garlic or olive oil, but there is milk and butter and a hint of nutmeg. It might seem like an odd combination, but the milk and butter mellow the intensity of the acidic tomatoes. The wine, nutmeg and vegetables create a complex flavor profile that transforms this sauce into something truly spectacular.Keep in mind that the finished sauce is very rich, so when serving, dole it out with a light hand. As one NYT Cooking reader wrote: “The noodles should show under a coating of sauce, like varnish rather than paint.”AdvertisementMs. Hazan called for using ground beef, or a mixture of beef and pork, but some readers have had happy results using a mixture of veal, beef and mild Italian sausage. The sauce also freezes well, so consider making a double batch.Finally, you’ll need at least four hours to make it (some readers prefer to let it simmer for at least five), so set aside a weekend afternoon — preferably a chilly one — when you have plenty of time to allow it to simmer to perfection. It is not to be rushed.AdvertisementRecipe: Marcella Hazan’s Bolognese SauceFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: A Meat Sauce as Good as Gold.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN. 8, 2018
MELBOURNE, Australia — Andy Murray underwent surgery on his right hip on Monday and said he hoped to be back playing in time for Wimbledon.Murray, a three-time major winner and former No. 1, has not played a competitive match since a quarterfinal exit at Wimbledon last July. He decided last week to withdraw from the Australian Open, which begins next week.Murray has been told to expect a 14-week recovery period and he is targeting a return to the court by June.He has covered Jordan. He’s covered Kobe. And LeBron vs. the Warriors. Go behind the N.B.A.’s curtain with the league’s foremost expert in a new basketball newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I underwent successful right hip surgery at the St Vincent Hospital in Melbourne,” Murray wrote on his Facebook page. “I’d like to thank Dr John O’Donnell and all of the staff for looking after me. I look forward to returning to competitive tennis during the grass court season. Thanks to everyone for all the well wishes and support over the last few days. I’ll comeback from this.”AdvertisementMurray, 30, accepts he will have to reduce his workload on court.“I’m certainly not going to be putting in the same amount of tournaments and effort to try to get to No. 1,” Murray told the British news media. “I’ll certainly be more considered in the amount of tournaments I play, even though I play a conservative schedule anyway in comparison to most of the players on the tour.“I’ll be playing a reduced schedule, and then focusing more on trying to win major events and big tournaments rather than trying to achieve certain ranking goals.”AdvertisementMurray said he can get himself back to “95 percent of my best.”“I believe that’s enough to compete at the highest level,” he added. “No question.”A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 2018, on Page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Murray Has Surgery, Hoping To Be Ready for Wimbledon.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN, SUHASINI RAJ and HARI KUMARJAN. 24, 2018
NEW DELHI — Police forces across India have reinforced security for the Thursday opening of a contentious film that has prompted hundreds of women to threaten mass suicide and other people to threaten murder.The film, “Padmaavat,” is a lavish Bollywood epic about a Hindu queen, Padmavati, who was so beautiful, legend has it, that a Muslim ruler besieges her entire kingdom to have her. Instead of submitting, Padmavati commits suicide, etching herself into Hindu legend for centuries as a symbol of honor, self-sacrifice and Hindu spirit.Extremist Hindu groups have whipped up crowds against the film, claiming that it distorts history and disrespects their legendary queen.They have all kinds of complaints: Padmavati’s clothes are too skimpy; a dream sequence between her and the Muslim invader is inappropriate; the story has been twisted and Padmavati’s heroism has been cheapened.AdvertisementOne group of 300 women has petitioned the Indian government for the right to kill themselves over the film.AdvertisementProtests are already erupting in many places and rowdy mobs have vandalized movie theaters, tollbooths, road dividers, buses and cars.An Indian TV station reported Wednesday night that a mob had attacked a school bus, pelting it with stones as children and teachers took cover in the aisle.Indian intellectuals watching the hysteria have been perplexed by two issues.First, few people have actually seen the film. The most strident protesters admit that they have not watched “Padmaavat” and that their objections rely on hearsay. The source of the rumors is unclear. The filmmakers have been careful about leaks of advance copies.Second, Queen Padmavati might never have existed. Although Alauddin Khilji, the leader of the Muslim invasion depicted in the film, and the Hindu king at the time, Ratnasimha, known as Ratan Sen in the film, were historical figures of the 14th century, several scholars said they could find no mentions of Queen Padmavati in sources from that era.“We are living in strange times,” said Manish Tewari, an official with India’s leading opposition party, the Indian National Congress, who supported the release of the film.The Indian police services are taking no chances, busing reinforcements into place on Wednesday.“We have geared up our local intelligence machinery,” said Anand Kumar, a police chief in Lucknow, in northern India. “We have also told them to deploy policemen at sensitive points. We have asked the cinema owners also to deploy their own private security.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Directed by Sanjay Leela Bhansali, one of India’s most acclaimed, “Padmaavat” was believed to have cost around $30 million.But many cinema owners are refusing to show it. They are frightened for their own safety, they say.This is especially true in Gujarat and Rajasthan, two states in northern India with large populations from the Rajput caste, historically associated with warriors. The Padmavati legend, rooted in a poem written in the 16th century, is set in a Rajput kingdom. The first — and loudest — voices against the film have been Rajputs.AdvertisementThe chief ministers of several states controlled by India’s ruling party, the Bharatiya Janata Party, tried to block the film’s release, on the grounds it could stir violence. But India’s Supreme Court last week overturned all bans and ordered the film’s release.A state-level Bharatiya Janata Party official even offered a bounty to behead the lead actress and the director. There seems no end to the threats, some clearly pitched to stir up the masses.Earlier this week, a Hindu extremist with hundreds of thousands of Facebook followers threatened to kill himself on Facebook Live if the film was released — but first he wanted to see how much money it made.The group of 300 women threatening mass suicide said they were still awaiting a response from the government — and ready to take their own lives.News about the film has dominated television coverage and the front pages of the biggest publications. Some schools said they would be closed on Thursday over fears of violence.“We behave rather strangely for a country acclaimed as the world’s largest democracy,” wrote Aroon Purie, editor in chief of one of India’s leading newsmagazines. “In a country beset with such serious problems as a slowing economy, crumbling infrastructure, suffocating pollution, ailing health care and a pathetic education system, the national conversation is dominated by a mythical character.”A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Threats of Suicide and Murder Over an Indian Film.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Riley ArthurRemember when that barista walked over to you with a fresh pot of coffee and asked, “Top you off, hon?” Or that hot new farm-to-table restaurant with photos of the cheeseburger platter on its laminated menus?We didn’t think so.Since Riley Arthur set out to photograph every diner in the five boroughs a little more than two years ago, at least a dozen have shut their doors, pushed out by real estate prices and the fickle tastes of New York eaters. No one Instagrams the 3 a.m. cantaloupe slices or all-day breakfast specials at that neighborhood spot where there is always a stool waiting. The checkerboard floors, the prehistoric rotating cake displays, the leatherette booths, the menu prices updated with Wite-Out and ballpoint pen — these are the endangered species of the urban habitat.So far Ms. Arthur, 31, has shot more than 200. Some are retro and refurbished, some aging more or less gracefully; the ones in Staten Island and the Bronx have the most parking. She has seen her share of blue paper cups promising that “It is our pleasure to serve you,” and of single men reading newspapers at the counter. Such is the appeal of diners, she said.“You know what you’re going to get. It’s maybe not the best food, but people go for an experience that they can count on, year after year, like the food their mother made. Like meatloaf, which you can’t get at more gastronomic places.”Ms. Arthur recently moved to Florida, so she now crams her work — she estimates that there are still 60 to 75 diners she has not photographed — into brief visits, hitting 10 or 12 diners in a day. “It’s a marathon of food eating,” she said. “I try to patronize all of them. I always order the matzo ball soup.”It’s a hard job. But at least there are free refills.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Riley Arthur is on Instagram. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryBy IVAN NECHEPURENKOJAN. 22, 2018
MOSCOW — A Moscow court on Monday ordered the closing of a foundation supporting the activities of Aleksei A. Navalny, the country’s leading opposition politician, moving quickly in a case filed only this month by the Justice Ministry.The court order came before a series of rallies in more than 90 Russian cities and towns, scheduled for Sunday and organized by Mr. Navalny and his supporters.The foundation, the Fifth Season of the Year, has been used by Mr. Navalny to collect donations that finance campaign materials, salaries and offices in 84 regions across Russia, among other weapons in his drive against corruption and the workings of the Kremlin under President Vladimir V. Putin. More than 145,000 Russians have donated $4.9 million to the foundation over the past 13 months, Mr. Navalny says.At the end of December, Russian election officials barred Mr. Navalny from running in the presidential election scheduled for March, citing his suspended sentence in a fraud case that he and his supporters have denounced as politically motivated.AdvertisementIn response, Mr. Navalny announced that he would turn his candidacy into a campaign for a boycott of the presidential election, and he called on his followers to take part in street protests. That, he added, was what led to the court case against his foundation.Advertisement“Putin was so scared by our announcement that we transform our campaign for presidency into a campaign for a boycott that he quickly created a special group to check our foundation,” Mr. Navalny said in a video released last week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Navalny and others have noted that even though Mr. Putin’s re-election is a foregone conclusion, the Kremlin would still like to see a high turnout, as that would cement his legacy as one of Russia’s greatest leaders. In that context, a boycott becomes a very delicate issue for Mr. Putin, Mr. Navalny said.“We wanted to take part in the election, but they did not let us, so we will campaign against this election,” Mr. Navalny said in the video. “You cannot consider Putin’s reappointment an election.”The Justice Ministry said in court that the foundation had listed a wrong official address, that it was illegally spending money on Mr. Navalny’s presidential campaign, and that it had violated a law regulating the use of personal data. The judge, Irina Afanasieva, reached her decision in less than three hours.“We have 30 days to appeal it,” Leonid Volkov, Mr. Navalny’s campaign manager, wrote on Facebook after the court’s announcement. “Until then, we continue our work.”Mr. Navalny built his career on exposing graft in the higher echelons of the Russian government. Unlike many other Russian opposition politicians, he has openly accused Mr. Putin of involvement in corrupt activities.A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Putin Critic  Dealt Setback By a Court.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Off the Menu By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
JAN. 2, 2018
LA GOULUE Even the phone number is the same at this serendipitous reincarnation of the French classic on the Upper East Side. Since the restaurant on Madison Avenue closed eight years ago, Jean Denoyer, who created the restaurant and is an owner, kept all the fixtures, nut-brown wood paneling, chairs and even the front doors in storage. He found a new space that has the approximate dimensions of the old one, including a nook for the tiny bar. The only major change is that, in the rear, there’s a spacious skylit room with stained glass, for additional seating and private parties. With Craig Pogson, a partner, Mr. Denoyer has seen to it that the chef and a partner, Antoine Camin, has maintained the menu with its steak tartare, tuna tartare, Burgundy snails, onion soup, sole meunière, roast chicken, steak au poivre vert, profiteroles and tarte Tatin. The wine list is still largely French. (Opens Monday): 29 East 61st Street, 212-988-8169, lagouluerestaurant.com.EGGHEAD This casual spot, specializing in egg sandwiches served all day, has opened in the Moxy Times Square hotel in the garment district. It is run by the Tao Group, which established the restaurants Legasea and Magic Hour Rooftop Bar & Lounge in the hotel and is better known for big celebrity magnets like Tao and Lavo than for breakfast counters. The menu features egg sandwiches with bacon and American cheese, a huevos rancheros-style version with chorizo and black beans, and a baked egg-white sandwich with avocado and greens. The sandwiches come on house-baked potato brioches: Moxy Times Square, 485 Seventh Avenue (36th Street), eggheadny.com.SCARLATTO This Italian staple in the theater district has moved to Restaurant Row: 317 West 46th Street, 212-730-4535, scarlattonyc.com.Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2018, on Page D4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
Australia Fare By                     
BESHA RODELL

JAN. 18, 2018

CreditDavid Maurice Smith for The New York Times        MELBOURNE, Australia — Brunswick Street in Fitzroy is known as Melbourne’s epicenter of hipsterdom, a stretch of boutiques and bars and cafes catering to the young and fashionable. In many ways, Saba’s, a restaurant that sits smack in the middle of it all, adheres to the neighborhood’s trendy reputation. The design is sleek and simple, with bright pops of color on the wall in the form of vibrant woven plates. The customers are youthful, as expected, but the crowd is far more diverse than it is elsewhere in the area.Saba’s, an Ethiopian restaurant, is run by Saba Alemayoh and her mother, Tekebash Gebre. Ms. Gebre grew up in Ethiopia, but spent 13 years in Sudan working as a maid and cook, before immigrating to Australia with her young daughter, Ms. Alemayoh, in 1999. Ms. Gebre’s home cooking became legendary among friends and family, and a restaurant was the next logical step.Ms. Alemayoh recalls a childhood of trips to Ethiopia to visit family, returning to Australia with suitcases packed with spices and traditional Ethiopian teff flour, brought in part to cook for a sister who has celiac disease. (Teff flour is gluten free.) Saba’s opened in 2015, and Ms. Gebre remains the restaurant’s main cook, with two cousins helping out as needed.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The menu declares that the people in the kitchen cook from their own knowledge and have no written recipes. “Hope that they don’t get sick!” it jokes, which on first read seems like an alarmingly honest admission about the perils of food-borne illness. But it is meant to say that if Ms. Gebre and her family were unable to come to work, the restaurant would have no food. There is no recreating the recipes held only in their minds and hands.AdvertisementAt a time when much of the city’s African community is subject to blatantly negative attention, it’s important to recognize the success stories of African immigration and the ways in which Melbourne benefits from its influences.AdvertisementThe food at Saba’s is served in the traditional Ethiopian manner. Injera bread forms the base of any meal, both literally and figuratively. The injera here is made from teff flour that the restaurant imports itself and has available for purchase. It is allowed to ferment long enough to produce a flat, spongy bread that, at its best, is deeply tangy and lightly bouncy, adding a pleasant sour note to every bite of food.The sense that you’re eating a lovingly prepared home-cooked meal begins with katania, a dish that the menu describes as “the snack given to impatient kids when mum is cooking.” It is effectively a chile sandwich, with triangular strips of injera held together by a paste made of salty, spicy butter turned deep red by Ethiopian chile powder.The main meal is served on those large colorful woven baskets as a shared platter, over a large round of injera. The menu offers many hearty and deeply flavored stews, which you can order as vegetarian or meat combos, or individually. Bamya, lamb cooked with okra and beriberi — the Ethiopian spice mix of onions, garlic, mustard seeds, ginger and more — is pure, deep comfort, and vegetable dishes like fava beans with egg, or pumpkin cooked in chile, are brightly flavored and distinct. Chopped Chinese broccoli spiked with garlic serves as a vibrant green foil to the meat and bean dishes, and salata dakwa, a Sudanese salad of cucumber and tomato dressed in peanut sauce, provides cooling balance.If you get the ratio just right — enough warming stewy things, a few contrasting vegetables, a salad for crunch — it’s possible to assemble a devastatingly delicious meal here. It is one of those places where you can sense the love and personality of the cook in the food, where everything tastes as though it has been fussed over until it is just right.Ms. Alemayoh and her small staff of family and close friends are an effervescent presence in the restaurant. The young women greet most customers, and when the room gets full it has the air of a celebratory gathering, with people calling out to one another as they arrive and Ms. Alemayoh drifting from table to table, offering embraces and conversation.In 2016, Ms. Alemayoh opened Afro Hub, a gallery and performance venue in nearby North Carlton, with the intent of providing a space to showcase all manner of African art and talent. Recent and upcoming events include a Soul Train-inspired dance night led by a Nigerian-by-way-of-Perth, a Senegalese song night, and a poetry slam. Both the event space and Saba’s have become hubs for the young and artistic of Melbourne’s African diaspora, with Ms. Alemayoh at its center.It would be possible to live in Fitzroy and frequent the establishments along Brunswick Street and ignore this growing cultural influence on the neighborhood. It would be possible to walk by Saba’s and not see the thriving community that is represented by this restaurant. But you’d be missing out.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Times’s Australia bureau would love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.AdvertisementFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.328 Brunswick StreetFitzroy0421 009 519websiteRecommended Dishes Katania, ful, duba (pumpkin cooked in chili), salata dakwa, bamya, kitfo (available on Saturdays only), dorho sebhi.Price $$ (moderate)Open Tuesday to Sunday for dinner; Wednesday and Friday to Sunday for lunch.Reservations Accepted.Wheelchair Access One step up to enter restaurant. Toilets are not wheelchair accessible, no handrail in bathrooms.
                This information was last updated: Jan. 19, 2018 An earlier version of this article misstated the address of Saba’s Ethiopian Restaurant. It is 328 Brunswick Street, not 28 Brunswick Street.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JAN RANSOMJAN. 21, 2018
In one Facebook post, two teenage boys posed in a photo with handguns on each of their laps.In another, a group of young men threatened to attack another man whom they believed had cooperated with detectives investigating a string of robberies.In each case, someone beyond family and immediate friends was watching.Those extra eyes belonged to workers trained in mediating conflicts and mentoring at-risk young people.In the situation involving threats, workers learned that the young man who had been threatened had actually not assisted the police, so they reached out and told the men who were making the threats. In an instant the conflict was resolved.“The kid’s life was in danger. We cleared his name,” said Felix Polanco, a program supervisor at True2Life, a group at Central Family Life Center on Staten Island. “Our job is to save lives.”AdvertisementBut stopping crime is as tricky online as it is on the streets. In the case of the boys with the guns, a worker reached out to the father of one boy — whom he knew personally — and the picture came down. But the boy ended up getting shot a week later.AdvertisementThe workers who jumped into these simmering online situations are known as “violence interrupters,” and their interventions were part of an initiative known as E-Responder. Its goal is to identify and de-escalate social media conflicts before they erupt into violence on the street.The program, developed by the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City in partnership with New York University’s Steinhardt School of Culture, Education and Development, was first tested in 2016. It expanded a year ago.Under the program, the violence interrupters spend at least two hours a day monitoring social media for signs of risky behavior, like threats of violence, photos with weapons or expressions of grief or emotional stress, Mr. Polanco said. They focus on people ages 16 to 25. If an alarming post or photo is found, a worker reaches out to the young person.During the pilot program, youth workers interrupted 154 social media feuds; more than half were described as medium or high risk, according to the Citizens Crime Commission.In all last year, the city’s Cure Violence sites — organizations, including True2Life, that treat violence as a public health concern — intervened in 5,273 street and online conflicts, according to the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, which maintains the data. The agency did not have data on what percentage were online interventions. The Citizens Crime Commission is currently working to compile that data.On Staten Island, True2Life interrupters focus their outreach on youth in parts of Mariners Harbor and Stapleton, where nearly a third of the residents live below the poverty level, according to a New York City Department of Planning 2016 report.Michael Perry, 37, a violence interrupter and program supervisor at True2Life, came of age in the 1990s in the Richmond Terrace Development, 10 minutes from Stapleton, where he sold drugs, carried firearms, was arrested, had friends felled by gun violence and was nearly killed himself. It was where — when Mr. Perry was 9 years old — his father, who peddled drugs to feed his own addiction, was stabbed to death in a drug feud. Ultimately, Mr. Perry, now a father of two, also found redemption there after praying for a way out.Since joining True2Life four years ago, Mr. Perry has tried to lead by example, telling young people engaged in violence and risky behavior that they, too, can change. In the two years since the pilot launched, Mr. Perry said he intervened in up to 60 online fights that could have led to violence.AdvertisementMost social media interventions — 97 percent — performed during the pilot in 2016 had positive outcomes, according to the Citizens Crime Commission.To assist in sorting through hundreds of social media posts, the Citizens Crime Commission is awaiting approval from Facebook to use software they developed that will review, analyze and provide real-time alerts about posts containing violent language.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But for now the workers manually browse through social media profiles and, at times, other young people alert them to potentially dangerous messages and photos.It was Mr. Perry who spotted the photo on Facebook of the two teenage boys with firearms in May. He recognized one of them as the son of a childhood friend. A week after the disturbing post, the boy was shot in the leg. Mr. Perry visited him at the hospital and has stayed in contact with him. He hopes that in time he can steer the teenager away from a seemingly violent path.“You don’t go preaching — you build relationships and bond with them,” he said. “It takes time.”From 2012 to 2015, at least 240 shootings and 24 homicides in New York City started as arguments on social media, according to the Citizens Crime Commission, which examined indictments during that period.“People who feel they’ve been disrespected on social media will take it to the streets,” said Jeff Butts, director of the Research and Evaluation Center at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, who has evaluated violence prevention programs in New York. “It’s about pride and respect.”Similarly, during that same time more than 700 people were indicted based on evidence found on their social media pages.AdvertisementYoung people commonly use social media to threaten their rivals, and online feuds can lead to retaliation, experts said.“It’s not just about identifying posts,” said Desmond U. Patton, an assistant professor of social work at Columbia University and director of SAFE Lab, a research initiative that analyzes the way in which minority youth in Chicago navigate violence online and offline, “but about how do you take what you want from social media and help people be good stewards of social media?”Mr. Patton began studying the intersection of social media and street violence six years ago after the shooting death of an aspiring Chicago rapper, Joseph Coleman, 18, formerly known as Lil Jojo. Mr. Coleman was killed in the Englewood neighborhood of Chicago after a war of words over social media with several rival rappers, including Chief Keef.Stephanie Ueberall, director of violence prevention at the Citizens Crime Commission, said E-Responder includes a 12-week youth leadership program that encourages participants to engage in positive social media exchanges and activism, while teaching them self-empowerment and how to express and manage their emotions.“Social media can greatly accelerate violence,” Ueberall said. “A lot of them don’t have the direction or support they need to get into a healthy lifestyle. The main task is to change the way they think.”Follow Jan Ransom on Twitter: @Jan_RansomA version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2018, on Page A24 of the New York edition with the headline: Monitors Intervene on Social Media to Keep Conflicts From Reaching the Street.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
A Good Appetite By                     
 MELISSA CLARK
 
JAN. 19, 2018
There is banana bread. And there is banana cake. And though the two share many sweet traits in common, they are not at all the same thing.Banana bread, baked in a loaf pan, is necessarily restrained — the kind of thing you feel good about eating for breakfast. Though it might have a thin glaze or sugar topping, it never has frosting. You might even spy healthful flecks of wheat germ or flaxseeds folded into the batter.Such nods to wholesomeness have no place in a banana cake.With towering layers covered in billowing frosting, banana cakes qualify as dessert, not breakfast — unless, of course, a sugar rush is your waking intention.This version is most definitely a cake: a fluffy, festooned pile of shaggy coconut and caramelized, buttery banana. With their rich, round tropical flavors, coconut and banana are beautifully complementary.AdvertisementThe cake layers house the bananas, which are roasted until golden and syrupy before being mashed into the batter.AdvertisementRoasting the bananas is a clever trick I picked up from cooks on the internet. It intensifies their fruitiness and gives them toasted, caramelized notes. Roasting also helps along bananas that are not quite ripe enough to be turned into cake — the ones with peels that are mostly yellow rather than speckled brown. While riper is always better for banana cake (and banana bread for that matter), roasting gives you a slightly wider window of banana usability.The coconut appears in both the cake and the frosting. Fluffy and white, it is similar to a classic cream-cheese frosting, but coconut cream stands in for some of the cream cheese. Be sure to use pure coconut cream and not cream of coconut (which you’d blend into a piña colada). If you’re unsure, read the label; if there’s any mention of added sugar, it’s not the right stuff. You can also use pure, full-fat coconut milk if you can’t find coconut cream; just chill and skim the solid cream off the top.Since this is a cake and not a quick bread, be sure to use sweetened shredded coconut rather than the unsweetened kind. Without sugar steeped into the flakes, they won’t turn golden and crunchy in the oven the way you want.Reveling in the sweet mash-up of sugar, butter, bananas and coconut is what this cake is all about. If you’re looking for something lighter and leaner, there are plenty of salubrious banana bread recipes out there. This one’s to keep your sweet tooth in shape.Recipe: Banana-Coconut Layer CakeFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 24, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: The Bread Is for Breakfast; This Is Dessert.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NIRAJ CHOKSHIJAN. 16, 2018
A longtime Hollywood stuntman, Joel Kramer, was accused of sexual misconduct by three women over the weekend, including one who said he assaulted her when she was just 12.That accusation came from the actress Eliza Dushku, now 37, who said on Saturday in a Facebook post that Mr. Kramer abused her during the filming of “True Lies,” the 1994 summer blockbuster.Mr. Kramer, who was responsible for Ms. Dushku’s safety on set, built up trust with her and her parents before taking her to his Miami hotel for what he said would be a swim in the pool followed by her first sushi meal, she said.He took her to his room, where he drew the shades, turned down the lights, turned up the air-conditioning and went to the bathroom, she said. He returned naked, covering himself with only a hand towel, she said.Advertisement“I remember what I was wearing (my favorite white denim shorts, thankfully, secured enough for me to keep on). I remember how he laid me down on the bed, wrapped me with his gigantic writhing body, and rubbed all over me,” she said. She said she remained motionless until he finished and told her they should keep quiet about what had happened. On the ride home, she said, he had her sit on his lap in the cab.AdvertisementMs. Dushku soon shared what had happened with a friend, according to her post. That friend, a woman Ms. Dushku did not name, then visited the set and confronted Mr. Kramer. Later that day, Ms. Dushku broke her ribs in a failed stunt.“Whereas he was supposed to be my protector, he was my abuser,” she wrote.In an email to The New York Times on Tuesday, Mr. Kramer affirmed a denial he had previously given to Deadline Hollywood, an industry publication.“These are outlandish, manipulated lies,” he told the publication. “I never sexually molested her. I’m sick to my stomach. It’s not true. I think she’s making this up in her imagination. This is all lies. Lies, lies, lies. This is just crazy. I treated her like a daughter. We all looked out for her.”Mr. Kramer also disputed two other accusations of sexual misconduct, both published by Deadline and involving women who were not named.In a statement provided to Deadline, Sue Booth-Forbes, who said she was Ms. Dushku’s legal guardian on the set, said she had reported Mr. Kramer’s behavior to an authority figure.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I was met with blank stares and had the sense that I wasn’t telling that person anything they didn’t already know,” she said.Ms. Dushku, she added, “was treated like one of the boys, not a 12-year-old girl.”Ms. Dushku’s Facebook post sparked an outpouring of support from several of her “True Lies” co-stars.Jamie Lee Curtis, who played her mother, said in a HuffPost piece that Ms. Dushku had told her of the assault a few years ago, and she praised her for coming forward.Advertisement“Eliza’s story has now awakened us from our denial slumber to a new, horrific reality. The abuse of children,” she wrote.James Cameron, who directed the movie, reportedly said Ms. Dushku was “brave” for speaking up.And the actors Tom Arnold and Arnold Schwarzenegger said on Twitter that they would have helped had they known.“All of us would have done something,” said Mr. Schwarzenegger, who played her father in the movie. “I’m shocked and saddened for Eliza but I am also proud of her — beyond being a great talent and an amazing woman, she is so courageous.”In her piece, Ms. Curtis noted the difficulties faced by child actors, who are often thrust into a world they may not be fully equipped to understand.“I have wrestled with my role as a mentor, colleague, surrogate, and friend, and each relationship is individual and unique,” she said of working with child actors. “Are we really friends? Are we work mates? Children are not mature enough to recognize that subtle difference.”A version of this article appears in print on January 18, 2018, on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: Stuntman Accused Of Assaulting Child.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MATTHEW HAAG and LOUIS KEENEJAN. 15, 2018
A 17-year-old girl who said she was being held captive by her parents in her home about two hours southeast of Los Angeles escaped on Sunday and alerted the authorities, who then rescued her 12 siblings — several of whom were found shackled to their beds and malnourished — the authorities said on Monday.The 17-year-old used a cellphone she found in the home to call the police with her startling claim about her siblings being held against their will, the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department said. Officers found the girl’s 12 siblings — who range in age from 2 to 29 — in the foul-smelling house in Perris, Calif., living in the dark without access to adequate food or water, the department said.Some of the children were restrained with chains and padlocks. “The parents were unable to immediately provide a logical reason why their children were restrained in that manner,” the Sheriff’s Department said in a statement.The officers did not immediately recognize that seven of the 13 siblings were adults because they were emaciated. The sheriff’s office said that the 17-year-old girl who called 911 looked to be 10 years old.AdvertisementTheir parents, David Allen Turpin, 57, and Louise Anna Turpin, 49, were both arrested on nine counts each of torture and child endangerment. They were being held in jail with bail set at $9 million each, the authorities said.AdvertisementThe Sheriff’s Department did not say how long the siblings may have been held captive.Sheriff’s deputies provided food and water to the siblings, who claimed they were starving. They were later transported to hospitals for treatment. Their conditions were not released.California records show that Mr. Turpin had received state approval to run a private school, the Sandcastle Day School, at the family’s home, a one-story stucco house in a subdivision built in recent years. The school enrolled six students this year, in grades six through 12, and Mr. Turpin was listed as the principal.In a neighborhood where residents often walk outside and children run around a nearby playground, the Turpins stood out for never being seen, neighbors said. Dennis Cooke, who lives two blocks from their home, said he saw Mr. Turpin once but never the siblings.Roberto Gomez, who lives in the house behind the Turpins, said the family kept lights on inside the house at all hours but never seemed to come outside. Another neighbor, Julio Reyes, said that last year he saw teenagers mowing the family’s yard and helping put up Christmas decorations.“They look pretty normal,” Mr. Reyes said. “Pretty normal house, they have nice cars. It’s just an appearance.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Perris, about 70 miles southeast of Los Angeles, is one of the largest cities in Riverside County, which became an emblem of bankruptcy and foreclosure during the depths of the recent recession. Known as the Inland Empire, the region has rebounded in recent years.The couple filed for bankruptcy in California in 2011, stating in court documents that they owed between $100,000 and $500,000 in debt. At that time, Mr. Turpin worked as an engineer at Northrop Grumman, the defense contractor, and earned $140,000 annually, records show. Ms. Turpin’s occupation was listed as a homemaker.Their bankruptcy lawyer, Ivan Trahan, said in a phone interview on Monday night that the parents spoke often about their children. They had 12 at the time of their bankruptcy, Mr. Trahan said, adding that the children never visited his law office.Advertisement“They spoke about them highly,” Mr. Trahan said.He said Ms. Turpin told him that the family loved Disneyland in Southern California and visited often.“We remember them as a very nice couple,” he said. “This is shocking.”The Turpins moved to California from Texas around 2010, the parents wrote on Facebook, after Mr. Turpin returned to work for Northrop Grumman. On a family photo of the parents and 12 children (the youngest had not yet been born) posted on their Facebook page in 2011, a friend asked if all the children pictured were theirs.“Yes all 12 are our children and we are very proud of them,” the Turpins replied.Sandra E. Garcia contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 2018, on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Parents Put Children in Chains, Police Say.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By NICOLE PERLROTHJAN. 18, 2018
Lebanon’s internal intelligence agency appears to have been caught spying on thousands of people — including journalists and military personnel — in more than 20 countries, according to researchers at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Lookout, a mobile security company.The spy operation, revealed on Thursday, is among dozens around the world uncovered by human rights groups and technical organizations in recent years as governments and intelligence agencies have started relying more on mobile and desktop spyware than on traditional forms of cloak-and-dagger espionage.The researchers found what they said was evidence that Lebanon’s intelligence agency — called General Directorate of General Security, or GDGS — spied on their targets’ Android mobile devices and desktop computers using various methods for more than six years. Their primary attack method, researchers said, was through a series of decoy Android apps designed to look like widely used private, secure messaging services such as WhatsApp and Signal.Once downloaded, the apps allowed spies to steal nearly everything off their victims’ phones, including text messages with one-time passcodes for accessing email and other services, as well as contact lists, call logs, browsing history, audio recordings and photos. The apps also let the spies take photos using the phone’s front or back camera, and turned the device into a silent microphone to capture audio. The apps were not designed to target Apple iPhone users.Advertisement“One of the main takeaways from this investigation is that actors, like Dark Caracal, are shifting away from a pure desktop capability for espionage to now relying heavily on mobile tools to gather their intelligence,” said Michael Flossman, a security analyst at Lookout, referring to the name that he and other researchers coined for the Lebanese spies they said were most likely responsible for the espionage.AdvertisementGDGS is Lebanon’s main internal intelligence agency, and its director, Maj. Gen. Abbas Ibrahim, a career army general, has a rising profile and a broadening portfolio. The agency oversees residency permits for foreigners, from diplomats and tens of thousands of Southeast Asian domestic workers to more than a million Syrian refugees. The agency’s expertise and clout has traditionally been seen as stemming from its human intelligence, not from high-tech espionage techniques.Speaking ahead of the report’s publication, General Ibrahim told Reuters: “General Security does not have these type of capabilities. We wish we had these capabilities.” GDGS did not return a call for comment on Thursday.Researchers at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Lookout began collaborating to uncover what they believed was a likely nation state spy campaign in 2016. That year, the Electronic Frontier Foundation released a report documenting a spy campaign against journalists and activists who had been critical of the authorities in Kazakhstan. The campaign included technology used to spy on Android users. Lookout, which focuses on mobile device security, offered to help.Together, researchers tracked the spying to command and control servers operated by the attackers. The researchers looked at who had registered the servers and when, as well as the dates of some of the stolen content. They deduced that the campaign had been going on for as long as six years.The attackers were targeting journalists and activists, as well as government officials, military personnel, financial institutions, defense contractors and others in 21 countries. Those countries included the United States, China, Germany, India, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and inside Lebanon.The researchers traced the attacks to a building in Beirut that houses Lebanon’s GDGS, using Wi-Fi networks and so-called internet protocol addresses assigned to attackers’ machines. While researchers said they could not be sure whether the attacks were the work of the GDGS or rogue employees, many of the attacks appeared tied to an email address — op13@mail.com — that had been linked to various online personas, including “Nancy Razzouk” and “Rami Jabbour.” All of the physical addresses listed with registrations made by that email account were clustered around the GDGS building in Beirut, according to the user’s wireless activity.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Emails sent to that email address were not returned.As part of their work, researchers found evidence that Lebanese spies were directing victims to install the spy apps through WhatsApp messages that began innocuously with a “How are you?” Those then linked to the spy apps with additional messages like “You can download from here to communicate further.”In other cases, the spies found their targets on Facebook, inviting them to Facebook groups, where they posted links to their decoy apps, which they often referred to by names like “WhatsApp plus.” The spies also directed victims to fake login sites for social media services like Twitter and Facebook to steal their credentials, hijack their accounts and push out trick messages to more people.AdvertisementResearchers also found evidence that Lebanese officials had previously used FinFisher, a product manufactured by the British company Gamma International, which sells surveillance tools that let customers turn computers and phones into listening devices to monitor a target’s messages, calls and whereabouts. Increasingly, researchers discovered that the spies had built their own custom mobile spy tools that were less sophisticated than FinFisher but as effective in getting the intelligence they were after.Martin J. Muench, the managing director of Gamma International, has told The New York Times that his company only sells surveillance tools to governments for criminal and terrorism investigations. The Times has covered several instances in which Mr. Muench’s tools have popped up on devices used by journalists and activists. Gamma Group did not respond to a request for comment on Thursday.Researchers also uncovered evidence that Lebanese officials deployed several variants of malware to victims’ desktop machines; the malware was designed to work across several operating systems, including Microsoft Windows, Apple’s Mac and Linux. That malware could steal screenshots of victims’ computer screens, use the victim’s webcam to spy on their physical whereabouts, record sound, grab photos and any Skype activity, file listings and files, and even iPhone backups.In the hours after researchers published their report on Thursday, the servers conducting the spying went dark.Anne Barnard contributed reporting.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlrothA version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2018, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Lebanese Agency Turned Android Phones Into Spy Devices, Researchers Say.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRISTINA CARONJAN. 15, 2018
An Ohio teacher who told a black eighth grader that his friends would “lynch” him if he didn’t finish his work has been put on leave, the school district said, calling the student a “hero” for standing up to her.The 13-year-old student, Nathan Bell, was chatting with his friends at Mason Middle School in Mason, Ohio, about 25 miles north of Cincinnati, on Dec. 4 when his social studies teacher became frustrated, his mother, Tanisha Agee-Bell, said in a phone interview on Sunday.The teacher told Nathan, who was the only black student in the class, that “if he didn’t get back on task, then his friends were going to form an angry mob and lynch him,” Ms. Agee-Bell said. Nathan responded that her comment was racist, and the teacher, Renee Thole, “kept asking him why,” Ms. Agee-Bell said.“Her job is to teach American history to eighth graders,” Ms. Agee-Bell said. “How can you teach American history and you don’t understand the impact of your words to your students, given our nation’s history?”AdvertisementNathan waited a week to tell his mother what happened because he was afraid he might get in trouble for having questioned an authority figure, Ms. Agee-Bell said.AdvertisementMs. Thole could not be reached for comment.A petition on Change.org called for Ms. Thole to be fired.The superintendent of Mason City Schools, Gail Kist-Kline, said on Saturday in a statement posted on Facebook that “we understand and respect the passion of these viewpoints,” but that Ms. Thole had not been fired.She was “formally reprimanded,” received a disciplinary report in her personnel file and was placed on administrative leave, the statement said. She will be “required to take further training” while the district investigates.This was the first time Ms. Thole has been disciplined in more than 22 years with the district, Dr. Kist-Kline said in the statement.She added: “It is not lost on me that this comes as we prepare to celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day and his legacy of fighting for justice. Dr. King reminded us that ‘the time is always right to do what is right.’ In this case involving our teacher, the right thing to do is apologize, make amends, and take steps to be better.”Ms. Agee-Bell responded on Facebook that the actions taken against the teacher were “a great first step.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I never wanted her fired,” she wrote. “I want her trained properly.”She added: “But just as important, I want the district to institute practices that give student and families confidence in being heard, valued and respected when they have been wronged.”AdvertisementThe superintendent applauded Nathan because he “bravely stood up and called his teacher to account.”“The student could have reacted poorly and could have rightfully berated the teacher for her thoughtlessness,” the statement said. “Yet, he extended grace to the teacher. The student is the hero in this story.”In a statement on Thursday, the school district, which has about 10,700 students, 4 percent of whom are black, noted that it had observed “an uptick in the number of racially and culturally insensitive comments” in its schools.“As a district, we want to be very clear, racial slurs or any behavior that discriminates against others are NOT acceptable,” the statement said.A spokeswoman for the district could not immediately be reached for comment.Nathan’s experience was indicative of the “hostile racial environment” in Mason’s schools, and is only one example among many, said Ms. Agee-Bell, 43, who has served on the district’s diversity council for 12 years and is the former president of the middle school’s parent-teacher organization.Black students have reported feeling unsafe or disrespected across the country.In November, a physics teacher in Conyers, Ga., was placed on paid administrative leave after telling a black student not to smile at him, because “that’s how people like you get shot.”“I got a bet,” he added. “I bet by the time you’re 21, someone’s going to put a bullet right through your head, O.K.? And it might be me, the one that does it.”In August, five black former students sued the Woodland Hills School District in North Braddock, Pa., for verbal and physical abuse, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported. A few months earlier the district had commissioned an independent review of its school culture and disciplinary practices.AdvertisementRecent studies have shown a pattern of discriminatory behavior in America’s classrooms. Not only do some educators have lower academic expectations for black students, there are also glaring disparities in how black students in kindergarten through 12th grade are disciplined: They receive out-of-school suspensions at a rate nearly four times that of white students, according to the latest data from the United States Department of Education Office of Civil Rights.Ms. Agee-Bell said that Mason had more work ahead to address the issues experienced by black youth, but that it was also important to focus on healing.“The community has stepped out and stepped up and said, ‘We will not tolerate this,’ and that makes me hopeful,” she said. “People are willing now to speak out.”Elisa Cho contributed research.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Wordplay By                     
 DEB AMLEN
 
JAN. 14, 2018
MONDAY PUZZLE — This was a powerful one for me, and I am so glad I solved it. Today we are celebrating the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and Agnes Davidson and Zhouqin Burnikel collaborated to make a lovely puzzle to honor him.I don’t know a lot about Ms. Davidson, but this is her second puzzle in The New York Times. It’s possible that this was a true collaboration between Ms. Davidson and Ms. Burnikel, or perhaps Ms. Burnikel, the more experienced constructor, mentored Ms. Davidson on this one. If you have ever dreamed of trying your hand at constructing and you are on Facebook, join Erik Agard, Will Nediger and a ton of constructors in the Puzzle Collaboration Directory group, where aspiring constructors can meet more experienced hands who will work with them to learn the craft of puzzle making.King’s “I Have a Dream” speech, delivered from the Lincoln Memorial on Aug. 28, 1963, was made as part of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, so it’s fitting that we solve a puzzle about that subject today.Four theme entries that end in a synonym for the hint at 61A are packed into Ms. Davidson and Ms. Burnikel’s puzzle, and while it was relatively easy to figure out, it still left me with a lump in my throat. I was a baby when King was assassinated, but I still remember my mother crying when the news came out.AdvertisementAt 17A, for example, we have the phrase NEW RELEASE, and RELEASE is a synonym for the word FREE in the 61A revealer, FREE AT LAST.AdvertisementAn interesting historical side note: The last and only other time that FREE AT LAST was in a New York Times crossword was in 1989, when it was clued as “Spiritual celebrating liberty.”Now you go set the others free.29A: I wasn’t thinking about zodiac symbols when I read this clue, but LEO for “Lion in summer?” makes perfect sense.42A: Wordplay alert! If you put the phrase TO GO together, it becomes the country of TOGO in West Africa.The seventh annual Monthly Music Meta contest held by puzzle maker Pete Mullerbegins on Tuesday, January 16, with monthly puzzles released on the first Tuesday of each month. There are monthly prizes, and a grand prize for the winner of the hidden mega-meta puzzle.Entry is free, and for more information, click here.Your thoughts?We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JACEY FORTINJAN. 13, 2018
The Swedish clothing company H&M temporarily closed several stores in South Africa on Saturday after protests erupted over an image in its online store that critics said was racist.The image showed a black child modeling a hooded sweatshirt that said “coolest monkey in the jungle.” Two other sweatshirts that were also jungle-themed but did not mention monkeys were modeled by white children.The image touched off an uproar on social media this week, and on Saturday demonstrators representing South Africa’s second-largest opposition party, Economic Freedom Fighters, gathered at H&M locations across the country.Videos and photos of the gatherings showed people demonstrating outside or marching through a store. Others showed people toppling mannequins, overturning racks and scattering clothes.
            Look at the lawlessness!!! This is at H&M pic.twitter.com/UvpHEYS9dQ “Out of concern for the safety of our employees and customers we have temporarily closed all stores in the area,” H&M said in an emailed statement on Saturday.Advertisement“None of our staff or customers have been injured,” the statement said. “We continue to monitor the situation closely and will open the stores as soon as the situation is safe again. We strongly believe that racism and bias in any shape or form, deliberate or accidental, are simply unacceptable. We stress that our wonderful store staff had nothing to do with our poorly judged product and image.”
            [IMPORTANT NOTICE]: All the stores of that racist retailer @hmsouthafrica are CLOSED. Racism must fall and we will never tip toe around racists. pic.twitter.com/eqmw885k6X Demonstrations were reported at shopping centers in Cape Town and Pretoria, and at several areas in and around Johannesburg, including Sandton, Midrand and Boksburg. On social media, some supported the protesters while others argued that the destruction was counterproductive.
            EFF’s message was loud and effective but went against what should be happening which is discussions. H&M contribute to the country and money that flows. They provide jobs and give people access to funds - even if only one H&M store closes or closes for a while it affects a family        Julius Malema, the party’s charismatic but controversial leader, who was once a member of the governing African National Congress, said in a speech on Saturday, “We make no apology about what the fighters did today against that store called H&M” and said targeting the stores was “just the beginning.”Advertisement“Every shop that undermines black people must be attended to,” he added. “It must be shut down. It must be closed.”The protests in South Africa capped a week of rapidly escalating outrage.H&M apologized for the image on Monday, and then again on Tuesday, saying it had removed the image and stopped selling the sweatshirt.“We have got this wrong and we agree that, even if unintentional, passive or casual racism needs to be eradicated wherever it exists,” it said on its website.Celebrities, including the pop artist The Weeknd and the rapper G-Eazy, said they would no longer work with the company. The model’s mother, Terry Mango, said in a Facebook post that the backlash was an “unnecessary issue,” adding that “this is one of hundreds of outfits my son has modeled.”Mr. Malema said the image had to be taken seriously. “We cannot allow the humiliation of black people to continue,” he said. “No one should make jokes about the dignity of black people.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUMJAN. 12, 2018
Peter Thiel, the technology billionaire, submitted a bid this week to purchase Gawker.com, the remaining unsold property from the Gawker Media gossip empire that was nearly destroyed in 2016 by a lawsuit largely bankrolled by Mr. Thiel.If approved, the acquisition could be the last step in a yearslong effort by Mr. Thiel to finish an independent journalism outfit that angered him in 2007 when it reported, without his permission, that he is gay, a fact widely known at the time in Silicon Valley.Gawker.com has received other offers, and it is not clear if Mr. Thiel, a co-founder of PayPal and an early investor in Facebook, will prevail. A winning bid is expected to be announced in the coming weeks, if representatives of Gawker.com do not take the site off the market.“There are going to be multiple factors to consider, which will not be solely economic,” said Will Holden, the administrator of Gawker’s bankruptcy plan.Mr. Thiel, who has an estimated net worth of $2.5 billion, according to Forbes, has the means to beat almost any rival bidder. But Mr. Holden said the “ethos” of Gawker — which prided itself on a wry, pirate-ship approach to reporting — would also be considered in determining new ownership of the Gawker name.Gawker Media went bankrupt in 2016 after a $140 million legal judgment against it in an invasion-of-privacy case brought by the former wrestler Hulk Hogan. Gawker.com had published a black-and-white sex tape of Mr. Hogan, whose real name is Terry G. Bollea; a Florida jury awarded damages to the wrestler after a two-week trial.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It also emerged that Mr. Thiel had spent about $10 million in secretly backing the lawsuit, a move that many Gawker employees interpreted as an attempt at revenge. Mr. Thiel told The New York Times: “It’s less about revenge and more about specific deterrence. I saw Gawker pioneer a unique and incredibly damaging way of getting attention by bullying people even when there was no connection with the public interest.”Univision bought Gawker Media at auction in August 2016 for $135 million. The company changed the name of its new asset to Gizmodo Media Group, after the group’s Gizmodo tech blog, and jettisoned the Gawker.com flagship site, which remains online, albeit in a static form, a digital orphan. Raju Narisetti, formerly an executive at News Corporation, took the place of the Gawker Media founder, Nick Denton, as the chief executive officer.Mr. Thiel’s interest in buying Gawker.com has led to speculation that he might delete the site’s archives, effectively erasing its journalism from the web. A spokesman for the billionaire did not respond to multiple inquiries for comment.Mr. Holden declined to comment on the dollar amount of Mr. Thiel’s offer. Kevin Lee, the head of a marketing firm, Didit, also submitted a bid for Gawker.com, according to Reuters, which first reported Mr. Thiel’s offer.A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Bidding for a Site He Helped Bankrupt.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SU-HYUN LEE and RAYMOND ZHONGJAN. 12, 2018
SEOUL, South Korea — The world of Bitcoin — rarely free of wild ups and downs of late — has been rattled this week by word that South Korea is preparing a ban on trading in virtual currencies.The question is how real that threat might be.South Koreans have taken to digital tokens with fervor. The worldwide virtual currency boom that started last year has swept up savers young and old in South Korea, helping push up global prices.The government has expressed alarm. Officials, including the prime minister, have voiced concerns about an irrational frenzy. Raids by South Korean tax officials on digital currency exchanges this week have added to unease among investors.“I am so nervous,” said Kim Su-jin, a 50-year-old investor in Bitcoin and other virtual currencies who works as a bookkeeper at a women’s clothing store in Seoul. “My coins could become trash if the government closes the exchanges.”AdvertisementBut South Korea does not appear to be done with cryptocurrencies quite yet. Several political leaders have already aired their opposition to a ban on Bitcoin trades, indicating that the public enthusiasm for virtual currencies just might be strong enough to shield them from further government intervention.AdvertisementThe country’s justice minister, Park Sang-ki, said this week that his ministry was drawing up a bill that would include the complete shutdown of virtual currency exchanges, adding that trading in the tokens “has started to resemble gambling and speculation.”The most popular Bitcoin exchanges in South Korea process hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of transactions every day. Trades using the Korean won account for around 5 percent of the volume of Bitcoin trades globally.For now, the authorities do not appear to be of one mind on the subject. After Mr. Park’s comments on Thursday, a spokesman for President Moon Jae-in clarified that the Justice Ministry’s plan was not final, according to the Yonhap news agency.Then, on Friday, Kim Dong-yeon, the finance minister, emphasized that other ministries would be expected to confer on the Justice Ministry’s proposal, Yonhap reported.At the very least, a ban would not be passed quickly: Securing a majority of votes in the National Assembly could take months.More to the point, several lawmakers from major parties signaled this week that they would not support a crackdown. Park Young-sun, a member of the governing party who has no relation to the justice minister, wrote on her Facebook page that closing the exchanges would be like “setting fire to a straw-roofed house to catch a bedbug.” Ha Tae-kyung, a legislator with the opposition Bareun Party, wrote on Facebook that criminalizing virtual currencies would fly in the face of the administration’s claims to support new technologies.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.South Korean citizens have also voiced their opposition to a potential clampdown by signing petitions with the president’s office. The most popular of these has garnered more than 120,000 signatures.“The power of the individual investor is very huge in South Korea,” said Simon Seojoon Kim, chief executive of Hashed, a fund in Seoul that invests in virtual currency projects.AdvertisementThe National Tax Service in South Korea declined to comment on why its representatives visited two major virtual currency exchanges, Bithumb and Coinone, this week. But Shin Won-hee, head of operations at Coinone, said the tax authorities had wanted to check that the company had paid proper corporate tax.Bithumb told local news outlets that it was cooperating with the investigation.Separately, the police in Gyeonggi Province, which surrounds Seoul, have been investigating whether Coinone is operating “a gambling site.” The company had previously allowed investors to buy and sell virtual currencies on margin — that is, to place bets using borrowed money. But Mr. Shin said that Coinone decided in November to stop allowing margin trading as government officials began expressing concerns about market overheating.Mr. Park, the justice minister, said this week that the depths of South Korean investors’ irrationality was reflected in the high premium — around 30 percent on Friday — that they paid on Bitcoin exchanges in South Korea over those elsewhere.Experts said that South Korean prices were also higher because the exchanges there did not allow trading by foreigners. That prevents overseas investors from selling Bitcoin in South Korea to profit from — and thereby help narrow — the price gap.South Korea’s isolation from the global market leads investors at home to seek better prices elsewhere. “We are seeing Koreans taking loads of cash to buy Bitcoin in Indonesia and other countries in Southeast Asia where Bitcoin is cheaper,” said Hong Ki-hoon, professor of economics at Hongik University in Seoul.With so many conflicting signals from the government, “I don’t think any of us think that these strong measures will actually be implemented,” said Hyon Hae-in, a 35-year-old Bitcoin investor.“Longtime investors see times like these as opportunities to trade,” she said.Su-hyun Lee reported from Seoul, and Raymond Zhong from Hong Kong.Follow Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @zhonggg.A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Ban on Bitcoin? Why South Korea Is Spooking a Global Currency Market.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVID TANISJAN. 12, 2018
There are many ways to approach a pescatarian dinner. The next time you buy a piece of fish for dinner, instead of pan-frying, poaching or broiling, why not consider steaming? It’s fast, easy and makes a remarkably satisfying light meal.Chinese cooks have long been experts at steaming fish — especially whole fish, which may seem daunting. But boneless fillets are also excellent when prepared in the same way. The technique is not at all difficult to master, and the aromatics — like ginger, scallion and sesame oil — are readily available.Most vegetables, whether small potatoes or carrots or asparagus, benefit from steaming, which accentuates their innate sweetness. The same holds true for fish.Of course, spanking fresh fish is required. Look for white-fleshed fish such as halibut, sea bass or cod, preferably about two inches thick. In a pinch, you could use salmon, but avoid stronger-tasting fish (like mackerel) for this method.AdvertisementIt’s worth investing in a good steamer with a sizable diameter. One made of stainless steel, though expensive, will last a lifetime. The inexpensive bamboo steamers available in Asian markets are quite sturdy, though, and come in every size. However, a large wok with a lid works, too. It just needs a rack of some sort to hold what’s being steamed well above the boiling water below. Chopsticks can do the job, or a cake rack propped up securely. Absent a wok, a wide deep skillet with a domed lid will suffice, or some pasta pots have a steamer basket included.AdvertisementIn truth, the preparation for this fish dish takes longer than it does to cook, but not by much: The cooking itself takes only 10 minutes or so.
                A celebration of Canadian cuisine, from its indigenous chefs to its famous butter tarts and Caesars.            First, you cut scallions and ginger into fine julienne, then stir up a little mixture of soy sauce and sesame oil, spiked with Shaoxing wine and a pinch of sugar. This makes a savory steam bath for the fish.Then, you put your fine fish fillet directly on the plate from which it will be served. It goes into the steamer for a brief spell and emerges succulent and aromatic. All you need is jasmine rice as an accompaniment.Though my recipe includes some toasted sesame oil, which is traditional, I used pistachio oil to finish and liked its nutty effect. It’s not required, of course. With its topping of sizzled ginger, chopped pistachios and fluffy cilantro, the fish is both festive and fragrant.Recipe: Soy-Steamed Fish With Scallions and PistachioFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2018, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Steamed Fish, Swimming in Flavor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byA Good AppetiteBy Melissa ClarkThai red curry paste is the condiment that’s started a thousand meals in my kitchen. Simmered with a little coconut milk, it becomes a fragrant, spicy sauce for all manner of meat, fish, vegetable, tofu or noodles. It’s fast, convenient and tasty — better than my local takeout — which is all I ask for on most days of the week.There are, however, times when I crave something a little more ambitious, a dish that’s deeper, more complex and closer to the curries I can get in a good Thai restaurant. But I want it without having to track down the galangal, lime leaves and dried shrimp necessary to make an authentic Thai red curry paste from scratch.A celebration of Canadian cuisine, from its indigenous chefs to its famous butter tarts and Caesars.Doctoring up the stuff in the jar is a good middle ground. The prepared paste has the base flavor that I can build on by adding a few fresh aromatics — ones that I can easily pick up en route from the subway to my front door — garlic, chiles, cilantro, ginger and shallot. These can revive even an old half-used jar (the one that lives behind the miso and the tahini), giving it brightness and verve.If you can’t easily find the lemongrass, feel free to leave it out. There’s already some in the jarred paste. And if you’re lucky enough to come across a bumpy-skinned and highly aromatic makrut lime, whirl its zest and juice into the paste in place of the regular lime. It will make the curry even livelier.Once you’ve done your shopping and chopping, the paste comes together quickly in the blender, and you’ll have enough left over to make this dish again. Store the extra paste in the refrigerator for up to three weeks or the freezer for up to three months.As for the noodles themselves, use any kind of thin noodles you like. Even gluten-free varieties work well as long as you don’t overcook them. I generally lean toward skinny Chinese egg noodles because I like the added richness of the yolk. But springy rice noodles are a close second.This dish requires a bit more work than your average weeknight dinner, and a lot more work than ordering in. But with its gorgeous combination of crunchy vegetables, slippery noodles and heady sauce, no one will ever guess it all started in a jar.Recipe: Thai Red Curry Noodles With VegetablesFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.cookingAdvertisementCredit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryCredit Mara Sanchez ReneroCredit Andras BankutiCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryThe Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., though most associated with the South, had deep ties to New York City, dating back to the fall of 1950, when he served as a student pastor every other month at the First Baptist Church in East Elmhurst, Queens. The senior pastor there gave him a B for “pulpit ability,” knocking him for “aloofness.” That would change. The city almost saw the end of his career as well: at a 1958 book signing in Harlem, a woman named Izola Ware Curry stabbed him in the chest with a letter opener, convinced that Dr. King and others in the movement were plotting against her (she was committed to a hospital for the criminally insane). Dr. King remembered the incident in his “I Have Been to the Mountaintop” speech a day before his death, noting that if he had sneezed while the blade was in him, he would not have survived to see the gains of the movement he led. “I’m so happy that I didn’t sneeze,” he said.New York offered Dr. King the friendly pulpit of Riverside Church, and access to leaders of the anti-war movement, which became a major focus for him. The city also connected him to black entertainers like Harry Belafonte, and liberal donors who provided bail money and legal support. Dr. King wrote a column for The Amsterdam News, served as honorary chairman of the Gandhi Society for Human Rights, on East 40th Street in Manhattan, and in 1967 led a massive march from Central Park to the United Nations, where he decried what he called a racist war in Vietnam.The images shown here date from 1957 to February 1968, when he spoke at a centennial tribute to W.E.B. DuBois. By then he was an official honorary New Yorker, with a Medallion of Honor presented to him by Mayor Robert F. Wagner. If the city was never his home, in these pictures it did its best to match the tension and monumental focus that marked his too-short life.The images are on view from January 13th, 2018, in the exhibit “King in New York” at the Museum of the City of New York.Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.Credit Cheney OrrCredit Roger Fenton/Royal Collection Trust/HM Queen Elizabeth II 2017Credit Sebastián HidalgoCredit Courtesy of Steven Kasher GalleryBy ANNA CODREA-RADOJAN. 11, 2018
LONDON — Fast Eddie Clarke, the quick-fingered hard-rock guitarist who was the last remaining member of the British band Motörhead’s best-known lineup, died on Wednesday night in a hospital here. He was 67.Todd Singerman, the band’s manager, confirmed the death in a telephone interview. The band released a statement on its Facebook page saying that the hospital had been treating Mr. Clarke for pneumonia.Mr. Clarke, who was born Edward Allan Clarke, joined the band as its guitarist in 1976, alongside the drummer Phil Taylor and the singer and bassist Ian Fraser Kilmister, known as Lemmy.Motörhead, known for its punishing and distorted heaviness, volume and penchant for rhythmic speed, which would inspire genres like thrash and speed metal, released 22 studio albums and went through numerous lineup changes. But the one with Mr. Clarke on guitar was regarded as the classic one, leading to some of the band’s best-selling albums, including “Motörhead” (1977), “Overkill” and “Bomber” (both 1979), and “Ace of Spades” (1980).AdvertisementMr. Taylor, known among the Motörhead faithful as Philthy Animal, died in November 2015 at 61. Mr. Kilmister died a month later at 70.Mr. Clarke occasionally contributed vocals to the group, in addition to his chunky chords and squealing licks and solos. On “Beer Drinkers and Hellraisers,” a ZZ Top cover from a 1980 Motörhead EP, Mr. Clarke traded lines and harmonized with Mr. Kilmister, a strategy they would also employ on the band’s version of “I’m Your Witchdoctor” (originally performed by John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers).“The best years of my life were in Motörhead,” Mr. Clarke said in a 2016 interview, “and what we did together I think still stands the test of time.”Mr. Clarke, who was born on Oct. 5, 1950, in Twickenham, a suburb of London, left the band while it was on tour in the United States after the release of “Iron Fist” in 1982. He went on to form the two-piece hard-rock group Fastway with the former U.F.O. bassist Pete Way in 1983.Fastway released seven albums, including its 1983 debut, called simply “Fastway,” which Mr. Clarke called a personal favorite. “I loved it because it was all my pent-up stuff,” he said. The album “All Fired Up” was released the next year, and the band would go on to tour with AC/DC.AdvertisementMr. Clarke reunited intermittently over the years with Motörhead, including in 2000 at a 25th-anniversary concert at Brixton Academy in London. The show was documented on a live DVD titled “25 & Alive Boneshaker.”Phil Campbell, Motörhead’s guitarist from 1984 to 2015, said in a statement that Mr. Clarke would be remembered for his “iconic riffs” and that he had been a “true rock ’n’ roller.”There was no immediate word on survivors.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this obituary misspelled part of Mr. Clarke’s birth name. He was born Edward Allan Clarke, not Edward Allen Clark.Joe Coscarelli contributed reporting from New York.A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Fast Eddie Clarke, 67,  Guitarist for Motörhead.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKYJAN. 10, 2018
MOSCOW — A human-rights activist in Chechnya has been detained by the police on drug possession charges in a case that colleagues and international observers say is part of a concerted effort to drive dissidents out of the Russian republic.The activist, Oyub Titiev, 60, has run the Chechen branch of the Memorial Human Rights Center since the 2009 abduction and murder of another activist, Natalya Estemirova, a case that remains unsolved.Chechnya’s Ministry of Internal Affairs reported on its website that the police found a plastic bag with what it said the police suspected was marijuana weighing about 180 grams when they stopped Mr. Titiev’s car for a document inspection on Tuesday. The drug possession offense is punishable by up to 10 years in prison.The State Department on Wednesday called for the immediate release of Mr. Titiev, saying his detention was “the latest in a string of reports of alarming recent human rights violations in Chechnya.”AdvertisementNils Muiznieks, the Council of Europe’s commissioner for human rights, said that Mr. Titiev had made an “invaluable contribution over many years” and that the case was based on “dubious charges that lack credibility.”AdvertisementChechnya, in the North Caucasus, is run by the strongman Ramzan Kadyrov. His father, Akhmad, had fought against Russia during the first Chechen war in the mid-1990s but later allied with President Vladimir V. Putin, who appointed him in 2000 to run the region. The elder Kadyrov was assassinated in 2004.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kadyrov’s Facebook and Instagram accounts were recently deactivated because he had been added to a United States sanctions list. Mr. Kadyrov has reportedly been involved in torture, kidnapping and murder, as well as other human rights abuses.Tanya Lokshina, the Russia program director for Human Rights Watch, said in a statement that fabricated drug charges were being used by the authorities to rid Chechnya of people who question Mr. Kadyrov’s rule.“Framing people for drug crimes has become an increasingly frequent tactic,” she wrote.In 2014, Ruslan Kutaev, a politician and activist, was sentenced to four years in prison on heroin possession charges after disobeying Mr. Kadyrov’s orders not to hold a conference marking the 70th anniversary of the deportation of Chechen and Ingush people under the Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin. He was released late last year.Zhalaudi Geriev, a journalist with the Caucasian Knot news website, which is critical of Mr. Kadyrov, was sentenced to three years in prison on marijuana possession charges in 2016.Human Rights Watch said that both men were tortured in police custody.The Moscow-based Memorial Human Rights Center has also come under fire from Russia’s federal authorities. In 2014, it was placed on an official registry of “foreign agents” after it was accused of receiving funds from abroad and engaging in political activity.A version of this article appears in print on January 11, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Chechen Arrest Reflects  Crackdown, Activists Say.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Breakingviews By                     
JENNIFER SABA

JAN. 8, 2018
The tech backlash has caught up to Apple. The activist hedge fund Jana Partners and the California State Teachers’ Retirement System want Apple to give parents better controls over their children’s iPhones. It’s an unusual issue for an activist, and apps from Facebook and Snap would make better targets.Together, the hedge fund and teachers’ pension giant want Apple to take responsibility for how its products are affecting children. In a letter to the board on Saturday, the activists — which include the pop star Sting and his wife, Trudie Styler, as advisers — cited research that suggests heavy smartphone use is linked to a rise of depression and suicide among teenagers and young adults.The popularity of the iPhone, which was introduced more than a decade ago, has spread to an ever-younger demographic, leaving educators and researchers scrambling to understand how it may be affecting children’s development. Yet other technology outfits are culprits, too, and provide rich targets. More people have smartphones that run on Google’s Android system, rather than on Apple’s operating system. Facebook’s and Snapchat’s business models depend on increasing the time spent on mobile phones and target children under the age of 13 with specialized apps.It’s a worthy theme to explore but a departure for Jana. The hedge fund, led by Barry Rosenstein, is best known for getting tangible results measured in dollars by agitating for things like a sale of Whole Foods or a shake-up of the board of Tiffany. In this case, it’s smartly teaming up with Calstrs, the largest public-sector teachers’ pension fund in the United States and one that’s increasingly emphasizing social responsibility with its investments. Together, the two hold roughly $2 billion worth of Apple stock.The fact that Jana is starting a campaign in the more squishy territory of sustainability and ethics could signal a broader shift in the winds. Investors are increasingly pushing companies to address a wider range of issues and risks. Exxon Mobil and climate change are one example. Gender equality and the ability to attract more diverse talent are also issues that are rising to the level of proxies.Silicon Valley used to enjoy an exalted status, but questions about the role of social media in the 2016 presidential election and the way digital technologies may threaten jobs and promote monopolies are breeding skepticism. The new focus on Apple shows how much technology has lost its halo.Jennifer Saba is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NEIL MacFARQUHARJAN. 8, 2018
MOSCOW — The main Russian air and naval bases in Syria beat back an attack by 13 armed drones over the weekend, the Russian Ministry of Defense said on Monday.The small drones were shot down before they caused any damage and there were no casualties, according to a statement on the military’s Facebook page.But the attack could indicate that militants opposed to the government of President Bashar al-Assad were stepping up the violence directed against the Russian military, which intervened in September 2015 to prop up the beleaguered Syrian government, then its main ally in the Middle East.Two Russian military personnel died in a mortar attack against the Hmeimim air base on Dec. 31, the military announced last week.AdvertisementThe military denied Russian news media reports that seven military aircraft had been destroyed or damaged by rebel shelling in the Dec. 31 attack, although a few posts on social media showed what was described as damaged aircraft, including a mangled rear stabilizer on one military jet.Aside from the aircraft, the Kommersant newspaper also reported that 10 Russian servicemen had been injured.AdvertisementPresident Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, in a surprise visit to that air base on Dec. 11, declared that combat operations were winding down and that the Russian military would stage a “significant withdrawal.” It was at least the second time he had made such an announcement since March 2016.Mr. Putin faces a presidential election this March, and although he is expected to win easily, polls indicate that Russians are increasingly disgruntled about the country’s military presence in Syria.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In its latest announcement, the Ministry of Defense said the drone attack had occurred overnight last Friday. It said 10 assault drones had flown toward the Hmeimim air base in northwestern Syria, while another three were directed against the Russian naval station at Tartus on the Mediterranean Sea.Seven of the drones were shot down by Pantsir-S antiaircraft missiles, and the other six either crashed or landed outside the base, the statement said.The Russian military said the drone attack was the first such coordinated assault it had experienced against its bases in Syria, with the drones flying from about 30 miles away and guided by a GPS unit.The military said it was investigating how the militants obtained the drones.Accounts by opposition members and others in Syria said one of the Islamist factions operating near the northwestern city of Latakia had launched the drone attack.Hwaida Saad contributed reporting from Beirut, Lebanon.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Bits By                     
 FARHAD MANJOO and
 

 MIKE ISAAC
 
JAN. 5, 2018
Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York Times, review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Mike: Happy New Year, Farhad! How was your New Year’s Eve? I ate German food, went to a concert and then went home. It was weird.Farhad: Everyone in my house was sick except me. So, I took a bunch of selfies. Same as every year.Mike: An early contender for father of the year, I see! O.K., let’s talk tech.Mike: So we’re kicking off 2018 with a nightmare, and no, I’m not talking about your expense report. This week brought the emergence of Meltdown and Spectre, two of the worst computer security flaws we’ve ever seen. My understanding is that together, the two problems affect microprocessors in nearly every computer in the world, and they’re not easily fixable via the usual software update.AdvertisementIn a nutshell, this is incredibly bad. Also, I love how every computer security flaw seems to be named after an ‘80s era Jean-Claude Van Damme action flick. Remember Heartbleed?AdvertisementFarhad: Hey, “Spectre” was James Bond. And apparently there are a handful of movies called “Meltdown,” including a 2014 zombie comedy.But let’s get back to computer bugs. So as serious as these flaws are, they’re of biggest concern to cloud service providers — that is, companies like Amazon, Microsoft and Google, which let other companies host their data in enormous data centers. As The Verge explains, the bugs in theory allow data to leak from one hosted account to another — basically raising questions about the security of hosting your stuff in the cloud.Obviously these bugs aren’t going to kill the cloud, but it does point to the concern of centralization online. Now that we have these huge companies running the internet, they’re going to become the biggest targets for attackers.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mike: Yeah. I think the thing that worries me here is that a software patch to fix Meltdown could result in slowing your computer down by as much as 30 percent, which is nuts! Can you imagine how long it will take me to tweet insults at you after that?And as for Spectre, fixing the issue could actually require redesigning how computer chips are built. This whole thing has the big tech companies freaked out, from chip makers like AMD and Intel to software giants like Google and Microsoft. And honestly, they should be. People should probably be more worried about this than they appear to be, but it’s difficult to convey a sense of urgency about complicated technical issues when the president of the United States is tweeting about the possibility of nuclear war.Mike: And that might not even be the weirdest thing on the internet this week. Social media superstar Logan Paul stepped in it big time, posting a video of himself stumbling upon a person who had killed themselves in Japan’s “Suicide Forest.” His discovery was an accident, but the posting and presentation — he and his entourage treated the whole thing as a kind of a thrilling spectacle — were entirely Mr. Paul’s choices, and they were terrible. The internet rightly flew into an outrage almost immediately after he posted the video to YouTube, and eventually Mr. Paul pulled down the clip and apologized to his fans and the dead man’s family.Farhad: Oh, that’s interesting, Mike, but before you go any further let me just ask one small thing: Who? Logan Paul? I’ve never heard of him and I’m certainly not a subscriber to every one of his channels, definitely not.AdvertisementMike: Er, O.K. But seriously, the whole thing really sours me on the internet and vlogging culture writ large. To me, it’s a prime example of how social media stars and lifestyle bloggers seem to lose perspective on what’s appropriate to share. When your entire success is based on capturing every moment of your daily life, it might be more difficult to step back and say, “Hey, maybe sharing this would be completely insensitive?”What’s more worrisome is that this sharing culture seems to be fast becoming normalized and ubiquitous, advanced by the many tools we have at our disposal to put more of ourselves online. Even slayings and suicides have been live streamed. And the ability to attach these things to massive social networks means everyone has a built-in, captive audience.In short, Black Mirror isn’t so much a satire anymore — it’s basically a reality show.Farhad: I think this story presents a growing issue for YouTube. If 2017 was the year that everyone noticed the dangers of Facebook — prompting Mark Zuckerberg to announce that he’s spending this year trying to fix the platform — I suspect our attention will now increasingly shift to YouTube.It’s becoming the world’s biggest platform for information, its influence surpassing even Facebook’s. How YouTube polices itself — how it’s aiming to improve the place, and the backlash its efforts generate — is probably going to be one of the bigger stories of the year, I’d guess.But that’s too heavy for the new year. I’m going to go watch “Meltdown.”Mike: Don’t forget to take a selfie with the TV. Ta ta for now!Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. Mike Isaac covers Facebook, Uber and Twitter. You can follow them on Twitter here: @fmanjoo and @MikeIsaacA version of this article appears in print on January 8, 2018, on Page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Security Flaws and Social Media Outrages.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By CHRISTINE HAUSERJAN. 4, 2018
Teachers in Baltimore are calling for city schools to be closed until heating problems are resolved, saying many students have been forced to attend classes bundled up in coats, hats and gloves during the recent frigid weather.The Baltimore Teachers Union sent a letter on Wednesday to Sonja Brookins Santelises, the chief executive officer of Baltimore City Public Schools, saying that this week students and teachers have endured dangerously low temperatures in buildings that are struggling to operate with bursting boilers and drafty windows.“Trying to provide a stable learning environment in these extreme conditions is unfair and inhumane, to say the least,” said Marietta English, the president of the union, in the letter, which was published in The Baltimore Sun on Wednesday.That day, four schools were closed and three let out their students early because of the heating issues and cold in their buildings. As blizzard conditions raged along the East Coast on Thursday, the closings extended to all Baltimore city schools, as well as those in other major cities including New York City, Boston, Philadelphia and Washington.AdvertisementIn Baltimore on Thursday, temperatures were in the low 20s and dipping as low as 9 degrees Fahrenheit amid high winds and snow showers. Colder weather was forecast for Friday, when another decision about closings would be made.Advertisement“I implore that you close schools in the District until your facilities crew has had time to properly assess and fix the heating issues within the affected schools in Baltimore City,” Ms. English wrote.In a Facebook Live presentation published after she received the union’s letter, Dr. Santelises said that as some schools are fixed, others might encounter problems elsewhere in the district, making a request to shut down all the schools an “overly simplistic” measure.“I don’t knee-jerk close anything down just because I have one perspective,” she said.She said that other factors went into the decision, such as considering the impact on students’ access to hot school meals and adult supervision while parents work, she added.She said the authorities “don’t take the closing of schools lightly.”But, she added: “Nobody in this city, including me, wants folks sitting around in coats and mittens all day for the entire week.”About 60 schools have been affected over the winter break and this week by heating problems, representing about one-third of the schools in the system, Dr. Santelises said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Alison Perkins-Cohen, the chief of staff of Baltimore City Public Schools, said in a letter to families, students and staff members on Tuesday that workers had visited the buildings over the winter break to try to ensure they were ready.Principals are combining classes if one room is colder than another, and Ms. Perkins-Cohen said school uniform rules had been lifted so students can choose warm outfits.Maintenance workers have been sent to schools as the district gets complaints about them. Dr. Santelises said as some fixes are made at some schools, problems arise at others as workers try to keep ahead of the problems.Advertisement“It is a juggle, and I don’t think we get it perfect every time,” she added.On Thursday, city recreation centers were open to students from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. and food banks were providing meals and snacks, Mayor Catherine E. Pugh said in a statement.Describing herself as “deeply distressed by the substandard conditions,” she said the city has allocated $17 million for maintenance in the current school year and that amount will increase to $19 million next year.On Twitter, parents shared stories of their children’s struggles and others started fund-raisers for heaters and coats.
            Update: yesterday we raised 8,000$ of our $20,000 goal to get space heaters and winter coats for the kids in the affected schools. Thank you to everyone that has donated so far. Let's keep this going. School is closed today so I will be collecting items myself. pic.twitter.com/ryRbiJXuyt 
            .@BaltCitySchools just sent a mea culpa email to parents regarding school conditions. Here's what my kid reported: so cold she had to wear her coat, only one set of bathrooms working with meant she had to walk outside to another building to get to a working restroom. She's 9.        As Dr. Santelises spoke on Facebook Live, parents and educators weighed in through the comments section, asking where the funding has gone for facilities that primarily affect children of color, and why their children should shiver in cold classrooms while adults figure it all out.Ayanna Barmore, 31, one of the parents, said in a telephone interview on Thursday that her sons, who are in fourth grade and kindergarten, have been wearing full winter gear indoors and were marched back and forth between cold classrooms and a common area that had heat to warm up periodically.“They said half of the school was without heat,” she said. “I don’t understand why they do not have a plan to fix it.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.