By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 15, 2018
WASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has subpoenaed the Trump Organization in recent weeks to turn over documents, including some related to Russia, according to two people briefed on the matter. The order is the first known instance of the special counsel demanding records directly related to President Trump’s businesses, bringing the investigation closer to the president.The breadth of the subpoena was not clear, nor was it clear why Mr. Mueller issued it instead of simply asking for the documents from the company, an umbrella organization that encompasses Mr. Trump’s business ventures. Mr. Mueller ordered the Trump Organization to hand over records related to Russia and other topics he is investigating, the people said.The subpoena is the latest indication that the investigation, which Mr. Trump’s lawyers once regularly assured him would be completed by now, will continue for at least several more months. Word of the subpoena came as Mr. Mueller appears to be broadening his inquiry to examine the role foreign money may have played in funding Mr. Trump’s political activities. In recent weeks, Mr. Mueller’s investigators have questioned witnesses, including an adviser to the United Arab Emirates, about the flow of Emirati money into the United States.Mr. Mueller has already indicted 13 Russians and three companies accused of meddling in the 2016 presidential campaign, and on Thursday, the Trump administration included them in sanctions it leveled at Moscow as punishment for interference in the campaign and “malicious cyberattacks.”AdvertisementThe Trump Organization has typically complied with requests from congressional investigators for documents for their own inquiries into Russian election interference, and there was no indication the company planned to fight Mr. Mueller’s order.Advertisement“Since July 2017, we have advised the public that the Trump Organization is fully cooperative with all investigations, including the special counsel, and is responding to their requests,” said Alan S. Futerfas, a lawyer representing the Trump Organization. “This is old news and our assistance and cooperation with the various investigations remains the same today.”The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, reiterated during her daily briefing that the president was cooperating with the special counsel inquiry and referred further questions to the Trump Organization.There are few other publicly known examples of Mr. Mueller using subpoenas. In January, he ordered the president’s former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, to appear before a grand jury. Mr. Mueller dropped the subpoena after Mr. Bannon agreed to be interviewed by investigators.Mr. Mueller could run afoul of a line the president has warned him not to cross. Though it is not clear how much of the subpoena is related to Mr. Trump’s business outside ties to Russia, Mr. Trump said in an interview with The New York Times in July that the special counsel would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia. The president declined to say how he would respond if he concluded that the special counsel had crossed that line.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump campaigned as a businessman whose deal-making prowess would translate directly into reforming Washington. The argument helped propel him to the White House, but the Trump Organization has been a magnet for criticism from Democrats, ethics watchdogs and some Republicans, who expressed concern that he remained vulnerable to conflicts of interest because he did not separate from the company.Before Mr. Trump was sworn in, he pledged that he would stay uninvolved in his businesses while in office but insisted it would be too punitive for his business partners for him to divest from the company altogether.Among the Trump Organization’s holdings are golf clubs, hotels and licensing agreements for the use of the Trump name on properties and other products. While its holdings are complex, the company has always been run like a small, family-owned business; Mr. Trump brought in his three eldest children to help run the enterprise.AdvertisementThe Trump Organization is not publicly held, making it difficult to determine where it receives its money and invests it. The company has said that it never had real estate holdings in Russia, but witnesses recently interviewed by Mr. Mueller have been asked about a possible real estate deal in Moscow.In 2015, a longtime business associate of Mr. Trump’s, Felix Sater, emailed Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Michael Cohen, at his Trump Organization account claiming he had ties to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and that building a Trump Tower in Moscow would help Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign. Mr. Trump signed a nonbinding letter of intent for the project in 2015 and discussed it at least three times with Mr. Cohen.A revealing comment about Russia by Eric Trump, the president’s middle son, also drew scrutiny when it emerged last year. James Dodson, a longtime golf writer from North Carolina, said offhand in a radio interview that Eric Trump, who oversees the golf courses for the Trump Organization, told him in 2013 that the Trumps relied on Russian investors to back their golf clubs. Eric Trump has denied those remarks.Mr. Mueller was appointed in May to investigate whether Mr. Trump’s campaign colluded with the Russians to influence the 2016 election and any other matters that may arise from the inquiry.A month later, the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit after Mr. Trump asked him to have Mr. Mueller fired because the president believed he had conflict-of-interest issues that precluded him from running the special counsel investigation.Mr. Mueller is also examining whether the president has tried to obstruct the investigation.Mr. Trump’s lawyers are in negotiations with Mr. Mueller’s office about whether and how to allow his investigators to interview the president. Mr. Mueller’s office has shared topics it wants to discuss with the president, according to two people familiar with the talks. The lawyers have advised Mr. Trump to refuse an interview, but the president has said he wants to do it, as he believes he has done nothing wrong and can easily answer investigators’ questions.At the same time, Mr. Trump is considering whether to bring on a new lawyer to help represent him in the special counsel’s investigation. Last week, Mr. Trump spoke with Emmet T. Flood, a longtime Washington lawyer who represented former President Bill Clinton during the impeachment process, about coming into the White House to deal with the inquiry.Michael S. Schmidt reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Mike McIntire contributed reporting from New York.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Mueller Demands Trump’s Company Surrender Files.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Clint WattsMr. Watts testified on March 30, 2017, at a Senate Select Committee on Intelligence hearing and presented a statement, “Disinformation: A Primer in Russian Active Measures and Influence Campaigns.”Last week, in a sentencing memorandum for the lawyer Alex Van Der Zwaan, the special counsel’s office noted that Rick Gates and “Person A” — an unnamed figure who has ties to a “Russian intelligence service and had such ties in 2016” — “were directly communicating in September and October 2016.”What coverage there was of this staggering claim — evidence of a direct link between a member of Donald Trump’s campaign and Russian intelligence — and the Van Der Zwaan filing was quickly overtaken by controversy over the president’s relationship with an adult film star.It’s been a year since I testified to the Senate Select Intelligence Committee on Russian interference in the presidential election of 2016. The revelations from Robert Mueller’s indictments since then have provided so much clarity on how Russia interfered in our democracy — yet Americans seem more confused about the question of possible collusion with Russia.That is, in a way, by design — Russia’s design. Its infiltration and influence on America is difficult to understand, even with vastly more detail about Russia’s influence efforts.A lot of the focus on the Mueller investigation has fallen on Donald Trump: Did he obstruct the investigation? Was he a “Manchurian Candidate” or just a Russian ally, by ideology or business interests?In my view, as a former F.B.I. special agent who has watched the Kremlin’s infiltration of America since 2014, the answer may be neither. A standard Russian approach would have been to influence Mr. Trump through surrogates like Mr. Gates and Paul Manafort rather than through direct command through an individual — in this case, the candidate and then president.Russian intelligence develops options and pathways over many years; as objectives arise — like the election of Mr. Trump — they focus and engage all available touch points.The revelation last week about Mr. Gates’s connection is another piece of evidence to support that view. Russia’s efforts to influence, known by the Kremlin moniker Active Measures, did not seek a single pathway into the Trump team. Instead, they targeted a wide spectrum of influential Americans to subtly nudge their preferred policy into the mainstream and sideline foreign opponents. Russian intelligence services establish campaign objectives and compromise foreign targets through espionage, but their principal focus is to recruit agents of influence.Typically, the Kremlin deploys layers of surrogates and proxies offering business inducements, information or threatened reprisals that can individually be explained away by coincidence while masking the strings and guiding hands of the Kremlin’s puppet masters and their objectives. When called upon by the Kremlin, oligarchs, contractors, criminals and spies (current or former) all provide levers for advancing President Vladimir Putin’s assault on democracies.In Trump and his campaign, Mr. Putin spotted a golden opportunity — an easily ingratiated celebrity motivated by fame and fortune, a foreign policy novice surrounded by unscreened opportunists open to manipulation and unaware of Russia’s long run game of subversion.Mr. Putin has succeeded where his Soviet forefathers failed by leveraging money and cyberspace to subtly infiltrate and influence Americans while maintaining plausible deniability of their efforts. And the Kremlin’s ground game “cut outs” — intermediaries who facilitate communication between agents — conducted a more complex game.Each Mueller indictment and investigative lead illuminates more Kremlin influence avenues into President Trump’s inner circle. Mr. Van Der Zwaan, whose father-in-law is the Russian oligarch German Khan, lied to investigators about his conversations with Mr. Gates, the Trump deputy campaign manager, and a Person A, whom the F.B.I. assessed as a Russian intelligence agent and many believe to be Konstantin Kilimnik, an associate of both Mr. Gates and Mr. Manafort, a Trump campaign manager.Evidence of Russia’s intent to interfere in the election is overwhelming, and documentation of Trump campaign members’ collusion not only exists but is growing. The special counsel’s investigation into collusion ultimately comes down to two questions. First, did President Trump or any member of his campaign willingly coordinate their actions with Russia? And did President Trump or any member of his campaign knowingly coordinate their action with Russia?Trump campaign members certainly colluded with Russian influence efforts, some willingly, some possibly knowingly. The president denies the Kremlin’s hand, either still unaware or in denial of being manipulated by Mr. Putin’s minions. For Mr. Putin, it’s likely everything he hoped for — America riddled with political infighting and mired in investigations, a weakened NATO alliance vulnerable to aggression and a United States president seeking his adoration, obstinate and ignorant of the great caper the Kremlin just orchestrated.The problem for the president is that ignorance is not immunity. The problem for America is that ignorance of Russian interference is vulnerability.Clint Watts (@selectedwisdom) is the Robert A. Fox fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute, a former F.B.I. special agent and author of the forthcoming book “Messing With The Enemy: Surviving in a Social Media World of Hackers, Terrorists, Russians and Fake News.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLettersTo the Editor:Frank Bruni argues that President Trump’s reluctance to attack Stormy Daniels is an extraordinary, if not unique, aberration for a man who so readily denigrates, bullies, insults and threatens others (“The Calm Before the Stormy,” column, March 21). Rather, as Mr. Bruni observes, he is the “tempered pacifist,” perhaps fearful of what will be publicly revealed.More blatant and infinitely more consequential is his treatment of Vladimir Putin. As reported in “President’s Call to Putin Dodges Talk of Foul Play” (front page, March 21), Mr. Trump made a congratulatory call to Mr. Putin for his lopsided and undemocratic victory while withholding any criticism of Russia for its interference in our political process, its cyberattacks or its alleged role in the poisoning of a former Russian spy in England.We have a right, and a responsibility, to question Mr. Trump’s motivation. Mr. Trump’s treatment of Mr. Putin serves no clear political purpose and, in fact, runs counter to all the advice he has been given by his advisers. A logical speculation — and one can only speculate — is that just as the president may be fearful of what Stormy Daniels may reveal, he fears the same with Mr. Putin. For this reason, Congress should take a clear and proactive step to ensure that the Mueller investigation is not undermined.LARRY S. SANDBERG, NEW YORKAdvertisement
The Daily By                     
 MICHAEL BARBARO
 
MARCH 19, 2018
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherPresident Trump called the firing of Andrew G. McCabe, the deputy F.B.I. director, a “great day for democracy.” Mr. McCabe says it’s further evidence of efforts to undermine the Russia investigation.President Trump called the firing of Andrew G. McCabe, the deputy F.B.I. director, a “great day for democracy.”Mr. McCabe says it’s further evidence of the president’s efforts to undermine the Russia investigation.What really happened?On today’s episode:• Matt Apuzzo, a New York Times reporter in Washington.Background reading:• Mr. McCabe, who said the president had pressured him to shut down an investigation, was fired over questions of candor.Advertisement• The former F.B.I. director is said to have kept memos on Mr. Trump.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.AdvertisementIf you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah and Clare Toeniskoetter, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Drillers seek to gain from an easing of Obama-era safety and environmental regulations that were adopted after the Deepwater Horizon disaster killed 11 people.By ERIC LIPTONMARCH 10, 2018
PORT FOURCHON, La. — A dozen miles off the coast, on a rusty, aging platform, workers in hard hats and overalls spend their days extracting oil and gas from the ocean floor before retreating at night into tiny weather-beaten steel cubes that act as dorms.The platform, owned by a Houston-based energy company that until recently was bankrupt, has none of the grandeur — or profits — of the deep-sea structures over 100 miles offshore that are operated by international giants like Exxon Mobil and Chevron.MARCH 10, 2018
But the company, Energy XXI, and other struggling operators in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico are beneficiaries of the Trump administration’s efforts to increase offshore production here — in large part by upending financial, environmental and safety regulations that the companies oppose.While attention has been focused on President Trump’s disputed decision in January to reverse drilling restrictions in nearly all United States coastal waters, the administration has also pursued a rollback of Obama-era regulations in the Gulf. Those rules include safety measures put in place after the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in 2010, a disaster that killed 11 people and resulted in the largest marine oil spill in United States’ drilling history.AdvertisementSmaller oil and gas companies, many backed by Wall Street and private equity firms, say they need the relief to survive financially, and the top safety official at the Interior Department appointed by Mr. Trump has appeared an enthusiastic ally.Advertisement“Help is on the way, help is on the way,” the official, Scott Angelle, said in September at a gathering in Lafayette, La., of oil and gas executives from so-called independent companies, which focus on drilling alone rather than the extended drilling-to-gas-station operations of bigger competitors.But an analysis of federal inspection data by The New York Times found that several of the independent companies seeking the rollback, including Energy XXI, had been cited for workplace safety violations in recent years at a rate much higher than the industry average. Their offshore platforms suffer in some cases from years of poor maintenance, as well as equipment failures or metal fatigue on aging devices, records show.In addition, there was a string of serious environmental and safety episodes in the last six months involving independent operators, including the death in February of a worker who was removing firefighting equipment from a platform about 30 miles offshore, and an oil spill in October that is considered the largest since the Deepwater Horizon event, according to Interior Department records.“These regulations were written with human blood,” said Lillian Espinoza-Gala, a former offshore worker who now serves as an industry safety consultant and opposes easing protections. “The only way we can honor those who lost their lives is for us to learn how to do this in the correct way.”But Mr. Angelle has close personal and recent ties to the oil and gas industry, particularly the smaller companies seeking his intervention. Earlier, as a state official, he worked with them to end a temporary moratorium on new offshore drilling imposed by the Obama administration after the Deepwater Horizon accident.
            From Texas to Alabama, the Gulf of Mexico is host to 27,000 miles of federally regulated pipelines, and about 2,000 oil and gas platforms.        Miss.ALA.Fla.GulfportLa.PlatformPort ArthurHoustonNew OrleansPipelineGalvestonTex.Port FourchonCorpus ChristiCONTINENTALSLOPEgulf of mexicoabyssalplain100 milesMiss.ALA.Fla.Active platformPipelineLa.Port ArthurHoustonNew OrleansTex.GalvestonPortFourchonCorpus ChristiCONTINENTALSLOPEgulf of mexicoabyssalplain100 milesMiss.ALA.flA.la.PlatformPipelineNew OrleansPort ArthurHoustonTex.CorpusChristiCONTINENTALSLOPEgulf of mexicoabyssalplain100 milesPlatformMiss.la.PipelineTex.Gulf ofmexico200 milesNow he is the top official at the Interior Department’s Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, a division created under President Obama to toughen safety standards and enforcement in offshore drilling because of problems exposed by Deepwater Horizon. Mr. Angelle spent his first months on the job, records show, traveling between Washington, Texas and his native Louisiana to meet with executives at most of the top offshore oil companies, including some repeatedly cited for safety violations.During the gatherings, most of which were behind closed doors, he asked for suggestions about how federal safety and environmental rules should be rewritten. Sometimes he offered up his cellphone number, urging attendees to call rather than send emails or text messages, which could be subject to public records requests.Advertisement“Not all the good ideas in America come over the banks of the Potomac River,” Mr. Angelle said at a meeting in Houston in September that was sponsored by an affiliate of the American Petroleum Institute, the large industry lobbying group, and attended by a reporter. “To the degree this industry wants to be part of the discussion, tell me where you want me to be and we will be there,” he said, evoking applause.Mr. Angelle’s leveraging of his role as a safety official to help channel the industry’s financial concerns and loosen regulations represents a sharp departure from his predecessors at the agency, which include a former Coast Guard vice admiral and a former federal prosecutor.“What appears to be going on is a redefinition of the agency’s mission,” said Michael R. Bromwich, a former federal prosecutor and inspector general at the Justice Department who became the first head of the bureau  in May 2010. “This is a safety and environmental protection agency. It is not part of the agency’s mission or mandate to increase production of oil or gas. That is inappropriate.”Mr. Angelle declined to be interviewed for this article. But in a written statement, he disputed that his agency had backed off its commitment to safety. “We must never have another Deepwater Horizon or anything close to it,” Mr. Angelle said.An agency spokeswoman said that all Americans benefited from his efforts.“The work we are doing in BSEE benefits the entire nation, and we are supporting the president’s objective of safely achieving energy dominance in order to contribute to national security, economic security and energy security,” said Eileen Angelico, the spokeswoman, adding, “The fact that Director Angelle deeply understands the industry we regulate is a good thing.”The agency is starting an enforcement effort that will focus inspectors on platforms with the most frequent problems, reducing paperwork requirements so they can spend more time on checking equipment.But Mr. Angelle’s speeches often center on helping the oil and gas industry cut costs and grow their businesses. And agency documents suggest moves he has already made could save the industry more than $1.3 billion in compliance costs over the next decade.The Interior Department has joined the effort more broadly. Last year, the department suspended a requirement imposed on Gulf rig owners, a change that will save them hundreds of millions of dollars. The rule required owners to buy additional bonds or provide other assurance that they could cover the costs of removing rigs once they stopped producing.The rule was meant to keep taxpayers from having to pick up the tab, but a collection of operators last year — with help from high-profile lobbyists like former Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi — convinced the Trump administration that the requirement was too onerous. The change has mostly benefited independents like Energy XXI.AdvertisementSeparately, the administration has reduced the royalties independent companies pay when drilling on new leases on the continental shelf, the shallow area of the Gulf before the ocean floor drops more than a mile deep.And it has eased up on deadlines for the removal of unproductive or damaged platforms, a change that also primarily benefits the independents, as they own wells on the shelf that in many cases are decades old and will soon need to be repaired or demolished.The rollbacks have been popular across Louisiana, which is home to dozens of companies that serve offshore operations and is where Mr. Angelle grew up.“Too much damn regulation in the world,” said John Girard, 72, a neighbor of Mr. Angelle’s from Breaux Bridge.In a presentation to Wall Street analysts, Houston-based Renaissance Offshore, one of the Gulf’s independent operators, called its business plan “a targeted acquire and exploit strategy.”While major oil companies had given up on shallow-water drilling in favor of bigger prizes farther offshore, Renaissance was “happy to assume control of forgotten assets with bypassed reserves on the continental shelf,” the presentation said.When oil was selling for $100 a barrel, it was relatively easy for independent companies to find private equity firms willing to invest in buying the aging platforms and deploying new technologies — such as horizontal drilling — to tap reserves that Exxon Mobil and others had left behind.AdvertisementThe “used cars” of the offshore oil patch were becoming profitable fleets again for companies like Renaissance, Energy XXI and Fieldwood Energy, which often bought up hundreds of platforms at a time as the major companies moved to deeper, more lucrative waters.Even as the price of oil dropped precipitously in recent years, the purchases continued, including a move last July by Cantium, a Louisiana start-up, to buy 300 active wells, along with 152 platforms and other offshore structures, from Chevron, one of the last major oil companies to leave shallow waters.“We see tremendous potential,” said Mark Ian Smithard, Cantium’s chief operating officer. “We see changes taking place in the regulatory environment, and we are working with our industry partners to make sure they go through.”But federal safety inspection records hint at the difficulties many of the independents have faced, and help explain why regulatory changes by the Trump administration are seen as so crucial to the shallow-water industry’s survival.Approximately 240 platforms in the shallow waters of the Gulf, serving over 2,000 oil and gas wells as of last year, are listed by the Interior Department as “idle iron.” This means that they are severely damaged, not operating and no longer economically viable, and that they pose environmental and safety hazards. Most of the platforms are controlled by independent companies like Energy XXI and are decades old.Even as safety has improved for the industry as a whole, some independent operators have lagged significantly behind, the records show.Renaissance, which produced 1.5 million barrels last year, as well as 3.8 billion cubic feet of gas, received 47 safety warnings or citations in 48 inspections in 2017. Among these were 20 orders to immediately shut down malfunctioning or unsafe equipment on offshore platforms. Overall, Renaissance had a violation ratio that was nearly twice the average, according to a Times analysis of agency data obtained through a public records request.There were two accidents on Renaissance platforms during that period, including a fire that erupted 48 miles offshore. Two workers jumped into the Gulf after concluding that the firefighting equipment on board was essentially useless, like “putting water on a hot grease fire,” the records show. Crew members were rescued by a passing boat after they got into life rafts.AdvertisementIn the past 18 months, the company was also issued a violation notice by the Environmental Protection Agency for not complying with a permit that allowed it to dump wastewater, and by the Transportation Department for failing to have qualified staff inspect its 32 miles of underwater pipeline, federal records show.Energy XXI, which emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy at the end of 2016, was found to have 207 safety violations during 337 inspections. Conditions were so serious that inspectors moved nine times to shut down entire oil platforms, not simply broken components they found.Last year, the company paid more than $1.1 million in fines  for four different episodes. In one case, it abandoned two offshore wells without ensuring that they had been properly plugged, allowing natural gas to bubble up from the ocean floor.In 2017, the Interior Department conducted four separate investigations into accidents on Energy XXI platforms (out of 46 conducted across the entire Gulf). One of the inquiries looked at a fire that broke out in October just six miles off the coast, in 49 feet of water, when a gas compressor built in 1979 ruptured and melted.The most serious offenses involved Black Elk Energy Offshore Operations, which was convicted in August of eight felony violations related to a platform explosion that killed three workers and injured several others. It has since gone out of business, one of at least 19 oil and gas companies that have operated in the Gulf to go bankrupt since 2015.Representatives from Energy XXI declined repeated requests for comment.A spokesman for Renaissance said the company had already moved to improve its compliance record this year. “As a company we not only adhere to industry best practices but look to exceed on them in every way,” Renaissance said in a written statement.Ridgelake Energy, a small company operating in shallow waters, also had a large number of reported violations last year. Its owner, William M. Hines, blamed the run-down condition of equipment he acquired from one of the Gulf’s many bankrupt operators.“There is a lot of broken stuff out there,” he said. “We are working to get all this back into shape.”AdvertisementConcern among enforcement officers has been growing because some of the independent companies are looking to extend operations toward the Gulf’s deep waters, where the risks are even greater.On the same day in February that it filed for bankruptcy, Fieldwood announced that it was going to acquire $700 million in oil wells from Noble Energy, which is leaving the offshore area to focus on shale drilling on land. With that purchase, Fieldwood hopes to start major explorations in deep water, even as it faces scrutiny for violations on the shelf.A spokesman for Fieldwood said the company was already operating in deep water and would be “be much stronger financially when we come out of this restructuring.”Lars Herbst, the Gulf director for the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, warned offshore operators at a briefing last year that certain kinds of shutdown had doubled. He attributed the spike in such orders, which involve an “unsafe situation” that “poses an immediate danger to the entire facility or personnel,” to a large number of “financially at-risk companies.” Those businesses, he said, operated 449 of the 2,104 active facilities in the Gulf.More recently, the agency conducted a two-day inspection blitz involving gas leaks on offshore platforms, many of them owned by independent operators in shallow waters. Inspectors found that 17 percent of the 36 platforms and well operations they visited had “oil and gas accumulations,” industry lingo for leaks that can lead to fires, agency records show. Eight facilities either lacked operating gas detectors or had other problems with their leak-detection systems.“It was quite concerning,” said Jason Mathews, the agency’s chief for safety management in the Gulf.The Cajundome in Lafayette is well known as a venue for college basketball games, country music concerts and monster truck shows. But for Mr. Angelle, 56, it is associated with an enduring alliance he forged with the offshore oil and gas industry nearly eight years ago.In July 2010, just three months after the Deepwater Horizon accident, Mr. Angelle, then lieutenant governor, stood in the arena before more than 10,000 locals, offshore workers and industry executives. He promised to pressure the Obama administration to end the moratorium on new offshore drilling, which had deeply angered communities that depended on it. The ban was lifted that October.Advertisement“Enough is enough,” he said with a thick Cajun accent in a rousing speech laced with rhymes and applause lines. “And it’s time to quit punishing innocent American workers to achieve some unrealistic political agenda.”One of nine children whose father owned a local Ford dealership before going into Louisiana politics himself, Mr. Angelle turned the arena on fire by ticking off the names of local families.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This moratorium is not hurting the stockholders of BP, or Exxon or Chevron,” he declared. “This moratorium is hurting the Cheramies, and the Calaises, and the Dupuises, and the Robins, and the Boudreauxs and the Thibodeauxs!”Mr. Angelle knew his audience well: After graduating from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, he started his career by scouting for onshore drilling sites. He eventually went on to lead the state agency charged with regulating the oil and gas industry, and made a series of appeals to Interior Department officials — some at the safety agency he now runs — to press the federal government to soften its response to the Deepwater Horizon accident.His ties to the industry are also financial. Mr. Angelle was paid $1 million to serve for four years on the board of directors at Sunoco Logistics, a pipeline company. And when he ran unsuccessfully for governor in 2015, he benefited from large contributions from the industry. One of these was a $1.25 million donation to Louisiana Rising, a political action committee that backed him, from a top executive at an oil and gas company that then had hundreds of Gulf platforms. Mr. Angelle promised voters that he was “fighting for Louisiana’s energy industry” in one advertisement.After being appointed to his current post, Mr. Angelle made a return visit to the Cajundome last September as part of his outreach to oil and gas executives. Mr. Angelle, agency officials note, has sold off any industry stock assets to comply with federal conflict-of-interest rules.His job was new, but his message was familiar: How can I help your companies thrive? In addition to safety enforcement, he made it clear that he viewed his role as helping the industry grow.“One of the things that we want to do is help unlock the next wave of investment into the Gulf of Mexico,” he said at the time. “That is what we want to do.”The next day, at a meeting with executives in Houston, Mr. Angelle acknowledged that efforts to assist the industry could be hampered if safety problems persisted.Advertisement“At the end, we are only as strong as the weakest link,” he said. “And if we have someone who is a bad actor, you owe it to yourselves, you owe it to your families, you owe it to the industry, you owe it to America, to call them out.”Even before this gathering, the Trump administration had signed off on the first rollback of industry regulations, including the one pertaining to the removal of unproductive offshore platforms. The lobbying effort on that rule was funded in part by companies, like Renaissance and Energy XXI, that were plagued by safety violations. It involved both Mr. Lott and his partner, John Breaux, a Democrat and former senator from Louisiana,  according to a disclosure report.The rule had taken effect late in the Obama administration after government auditors estimated that it would cost nearly $40 billion to remove the old wells, but determined that oil companies had issued just $2.9 billion worth of bonds to cover the expense.The Obama administration’s remedy was to require companies to buy more bonds, or provide other financial guarantees, to prove they had the capacity to pay for the removal of the wells. The industry’s reaction was swift.“The Louisiana economy needs a kick start, not a kick in the teeth,” Gifford Briggs, the top lobbyist and vice president at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association, wrote in 2016.The problems associated with the old platforms can be severe, as seen in an oil leak 12 miles off the Louisiana coast that has been spreading a sheen across the Gulf for more than a decade. The leak, from a collapsed platform once operated by the now defunct Taylor Energy Company, could continue for 100 years unless it is properly sealed, the safety agency has estimated.Next, the oil and gas companies pushed to unravel a major safety requirement known as the well-control rule, which regulates methods used to drill new oil and gas wells — and prevent explosions.It took six years after the Deepwater Horizon accident to enact the rule, a process that involved thousands of hours of consultations with industry experts and public safety officials, according to Mr. Bromwich, the former federal prosecutor who helped start the process.AdvertisementThe new rule, which took effect in July 2016, required additional inspections of devices called blowout preventers, the equipment that failed during the Deepwater Horizon disaster. To prevent accidents, another provision required oil and gas platforms to shut down temporarily when so-called lift boats positioned themselves for repair work.At a meeting Mr. Angelle called in September, industry officials detailed their objections while members of staff — some of whom helped write the rule — sat taking notes. Separately, Mr. Angelle held private meetings with representatives from the same companies, according to a copy of his calender, obtained through a public records request.“It is mostly knee-jerk reactions that came out of Washington,” Craig Castille of Stone Energy said in prepared remarks that called for more than a dozen changes to the regulation. “The pendulum has swung way too far to the right.”Two days later, Mr. Angelle directed his top aides to prepare documents explaining how the agency had justified the requirement, according to emails obtained through the public records request.“Please highlight the sections around the drilling margin and any discussion on blowout preventer,” Mr. Angelle wrote. “This will help inform me.”In late December, Mr. Angelle sent the White House a proposal to overhaul the well-control rule, estimating that oil companies would save $986 million in the coming decade. The proposal included many changes requested by the industry, such as loosening inspection requirements for blowout preventers and eliminating the need to shut down operations as lift boats approached.“Oil and natural gas operators raised concerns about certain regulatory provisions that impose undue burdens on their industry, but do not significantly enhance worker safety or environmental protection,” said the confidential draft, a copy of which was obtained by The Times.Though the proposal is undergoing a review before the revisions are made public, the White House has made clear that it welcomes the effort. A White House spokeswoman declined to comment.AdvertisementAlso in December, the safety bureau moved to ease requirements on the maintenance of offshore oil and gas platforms, cutting costs by an additional $228 million over the next decade.To some longtime residents and activists, the changes, and the hundreds of millions of dollars they will save for companies, are not worth the possible trade-offs in safety and environmental protections.“It’s always the workers who pay,” said Scott Eustis of the Gulf Restoration Network, an environmental group. “And Gulf Coast workers will pay with their bodies, their lives, their children, who will grow up without fathers.”Mr. Bromwich, like other former officials who spent years drafting the safety rules, lamented the move to weaken them.“It’s just a terrible signal to the industry as to who is in charge,” Mr. Bromwich said. “It is classic swamp behavior.”But for offshore crews, the changes bring excitement and renewed optimism about work.“It affects from the lowest guy to the highest guy, regulations, all day long,” said Don LeBoeuf, an Energy XXI crew worker here in Port Fourchon, before he boarded a boat to a platform 60 miles offshore.Huge drillships — with names like Deepwater Asgard, owned by Transocean, the same company that owned Deepwater Horizon — have been anchored in place 18 miles offshore for months at a time with their generators running and their crews on board, waiting for work.When a small boat with a reporter and photographer recently pulled up alongside Deepwater Asgard, workers peered over the side, wondering why they had visitors. Asked what they thought about the Trump administration’s rollback of regulations in the Gulf, one of them yelled, “Drill, baby, drill!”AdvertisementSeveral weeks later, the ship actually did get a drilling contract, and is now back at work.Even in a difficult period, the Gulf generates 97 percent of offshore oil in the United States, about 18 percent of the country’s crude oil and $2.8 billion a year in royalty and lease payments to the federal government. And 2017 was a record year for the Gulf, with a total of 1.65 million barrels a day.There are 2,200 offshore oil and gas platforms along an 820-mile stretch of coast between Brownsville, Tex., and Mobile, Ala., and they are an imposing presence, resembling in places a battalion of Imperial Walkers from the “Star Wars” movies.But in early March, the number of drilling rigs used in the Gulf was just 14, compared with 145 at the industry’s peak in 2000.The downturn was set off by a drop in oil prices, competition from fracking and other sources and, local businesses will tell you, an overbearing regulatory reaction to the Deepwater Horizon accident. Talk of lifting regulations echoes throughout the coastal communities that serve offshore operations, particularly the smaller concerns that specialize in shallow-water drilling.“There is just not a lot of business out there right now for the offshore service companies,” said Court B. Ramsay, president of Aries Marine of Lafayette, which has a fleet of 26 boats used in repairing oil and gas platforms in shallow waters. “It would be a shot in the arm for sure, for my business and many business like mine, if we can get some relief from some of these rules.”Statistics from the Greater Lafourche Port Commission, which operates the port here about 160 miles from Lafayette, show that as many as 450 boats passed in and out of the piers each day, mostly to serve the oil and gas industry, during drilling’s peak. Now there are about 300. In addition, diesel fuel sales have dropped from about 40 million gallons a month to about 20 million, said Chett Chiasson, the port’s executive director.The fall in oil prices certainly contributed to the decline, Mr. Chiasson said, but he also blames the Obama administration.“There were regulations that were not necessarily increasing safety, but they were just increasing the cost of the activities in the oil and gas industry and thus hindering their ability to keep operating in the Gulf,” he said. “We know things need to be safe and operate in a safe manner. But we don’t need to overregulate in a way that disincentivizes investment.”AdvertisementPort Fourchon itself has the feel of a moon base. It is reached via an eight-mile bridge intended to keep the port operating even during flooding, an increasingly common occurrence because of damage to protective wetlands caused by drilling and dredging. Every major oil and gas company has an encampment with ships and repair warehouses. Hundreds of workers converge daily in a rush-hour scramble of muddy pickup trucks.The port operates around the clock, 365 days a year, with hundreds of service boats and helicopters ferrying crews to and from offshore platforms and drilling rigs. Giant workboats — the equivalent of floating dump trucks — carry loads of mud, fuel, water, food and other supplies the crews require.Safety remains a focus. There are signs on the drillships and offshore platforms reminding crews of the importance of following safety rules. At the port entrance, a memorial depicts a mermaid ascending from the water, complete with a cloak that includes an oil rig. The Our Lady of the Gulf statue was installed last year to honor offshore workers who have died in the Gulf, including the those killed in the Deepwater Horizon explosion.But the primary concern voiced here is economic.“Half the supply boats and crew boats up and down the bayou have been seized by the banks,” said Kathleen Chiasson, who once ran a truck-dispatching company that supplied the industry, and now works behind the counter of a gas-station mini market. “I just hope someone can do it to get it back to at least half the way it used to be.”Agustin Armendariz contributed reporting from New York, and Clifford Krauss from Houston.A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Targeting Rules ‘Written With Human Blood’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardThe former C.I.A. director John Brennan pulled no punches on Wednesday when he was asked why President Trump had congratulated his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, for his victory in a rigged election, even after Mr. Trump’s national security staff warned him not to.“I think he’s afraid of the president of Russia,” Mr. Brennan said, on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” program, of the phone call on Tuesday between the two presidents. “The Russians, I think, have had long experience with Mr. Trump and may have things they could expose.”The possibility that Mr. Putin could have some hold on the American president has lurked in the background over the past year as Mr. Trump displayed a mystifying affection for the Russian leader and ignored or excused his aggressive behavior and nefarious activities, most important, his interference in the 2016 campaign, a subject of the special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation.Some Trump defenders noted that President Barack Obama also called Mr. Putin when he was elected president in 2012.But the circumstances are very different. In the intervening years, Mr. Putin has become an increasingly authoritarian leader who has crushed most of his political opposition and engineered a deeply lopsided re-election this week. American intelligence officials say they are certain that he meddled in the 2016 American election on behalf of Mr. Trump and is trying to meddle again in the 2018 election, as well as in many European elections.Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, is waging war in other parts of Ukraine and is enabling President Bashar al-Assad in Syria.While the administration recently imposed its first significant sanctions on Russia for election interference and other malicious cyberattacks and has faulted Russia for the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain, Mr. Trump has refrained from criticizing Mr. Putin or calling him to account. The phone call reinforced that approach.What Mr. Trump didn’t say to Mr. Putin was as significant as what he did say. He did not demand that Mr. Putin stop meddling in American elections or others, he did not even raise Moscow’s role in the poisoning.He made no mention of the unfair political system that deprives Russians of a real say in their government. The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, later reinforced Mr. Trump’s lack of interest, telling reporters it was not America’s place to question how other countries conduct their elections.The disparity between Mr. Trump and his advisers, who seem to take threats from Russia more seriously, is becoming more pronounced.A senior administration official told The Times that Mr. Trump didn’t want to antagonize Mr. Putin because fostering rapport is the only way to improve relations between the two countries. On Tuesday, the president said he hoped to meet Mr. Putin soon and discuss preventing an arms race — an arms race both leaders have encouraged with loose talk and investment in new weapons.Engaging Russia and preventing an arms race are undeniably important. But it’s hard to see how praising and appeasing a bully will advance American interests. That’s not the approach Mr. Trump has taken with adversaries like North Korea or Iran, or, for that matter, even with some allies.While Mr. Trump panders to Mr. Putin, his criticism of Mr. Mueller is becoming harsher, as the investigation raises increasingly serious concerns about a web of ties connecting Mr. Trump’s associates to Russia.Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has pleaded guilty to lying about his involvement with Russia. A former foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos, has pleaded guilty to lying about his involvement with Russians. A former deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates, who had his own Russian connections along with a now-indicted former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, has pleaded guilty to lying about Russian-related matters.Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed Mr. Trump’s company for any documents involving Russia. Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee say Mr. Trump was “actively negotiating a business deal in Moscow with a sanctioned Russian bank” during the 2016 campaign season.And Mr. Mueller has charged 13 Russians with conspiring to subvert the 2016 election and put Mr. Trump in the White House.Mr. Brennan’s fears clearly arise from some of these elements.Mr. Brennan knows more than most about possible threats to America, but he is not the only one speaking out. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, slammed Mr. Trump, saying “an American president does not lead the free world by congratulating dictators on winning sham elections.” Even the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who rarely crosses Mr. Trump, said calling Mr. Putin “wouldn’t have been high on my list.”If Mr. Trump isn’t Mr. Putin’s lackey, it’s past time for him to prove it.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionvideoAdvertisementBy KIRK SEMPLE, BEN PROTESS and STEVE EDERMARCH 3, 2018
PANAMA — The Trump International Hotel and Tower here is President Trump’s only hotel property in Latin America. At 70 stories, it is the tallest building in Panama, offers sweeping views of Panama Bay and features five outdoor swimming pools. The rooms come with Trump-branded bathrobes, stationery and mouthwash.But in recent days, guests have witnessed a decidedly less glamorous side of the operation: yelling and shoving matches involving security personnel and others, the presence of police officers in Kevlar helmets, and various interventions by Panamanian labor regulators, forensic specialists and a justice of the peace.The source of the drama? The businessman who recently purchased a majority stake in the hotel wants the Trumps out. And the Trumps, who have a long-term contract to manage the property, are refusing to go.In a letter marked “Private & Confidential” to the hotel’s other owners, the businessman, Orestes Fintiklis, likened the Trumps to leeches who had attached to the property, “draining our last drops of blood,” according to a copy reviewed by The New York Times. He has also filed legal actions accusing the Trump family business, the Trump Organization, of mismanaging the hotel.AdvertisementThe Trump Organization, in turn, has accused Mr. Fintiklis of using “thug-like, mob-style tactics” in trying to force his way into the hotel’s administrative offices, which prompted the physical and verbal altercations, and of engaging in a “fraudulent scheme” to strip the property of its Trump management and branding. Mr. Fintiklis’s criticisms of the company’s management “are a complete sham and a fraud,” the company said in a court filing.AdvertisementThis past week, Panama’s Public Ministry said it was looking into whether there had been any “punishable conduct” in the dispute — which means that an arm of a foreign government finds itself in the extraordinary position of investigating a business owned by the American president.Just seven years ago, at the hotel’s grand opening, the president of Panama at the time joined Mr. Trump in extolling the property. Panama City was then awash with international investors and a booming economy, earning it the nickname “Dubai of Latin America.”Alan Garten, the Trump Organization’s chief legal officer, said President Trump had no role in the current dispute. “This has absolutely nothing to do with the president of the United States,” he said. “It is purely a commercial dispute,” adding that “It is simply getting more attention, obviously.”All indications point to business, not politics, as the source of the tensions, and at any other moment, the Trump Organization and its army of lawyers might have relished this sort of pitched battle.But the Panamanian misadventure has become the family business’s biggest headache at a time when its founder is in the White House and every move and woe is magnified across the planet. The business is also showing other signs of receding: The Trump Organization last year agreed to buyout deals that removed the Trump name from once-prized properties in New York and Toronto.With those stresses and strains, the company is reluctant to walk away from the Panama property and possibly invite other partners to challenge their agreements, according to people close to the company who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The Trumps also believe that the law is on their side, according to their lawyers, who argue that their management agreement prevents Mr. Fintiklis from terminating the contract without an arbitrator’s order. The contract to manage the hotel extends through 2031, and the Trumps say they want to stand behind their employees, several of whom Mr. Fintiklis has sought to fire, for the duration of the deal.AdvertisementThe dispute comes as the Trumps’ property — like many Panamanian hotels — is struggling.The hotel lost over $1 million last year, according to the hotel’s confidential financial documents reviewed by The Times, after turning a gross operating profit of more than $800,000 in 2016. (The results are unaudited and may improve somewhat once they are finalized.)Mr. Fintiklis, 39, declined to comment, but he has made several notable — and provocative — appearances at the hotel in recent days. On one evening, following a verbal confrontation with Trump employees, he and his entourage of about a dozen people retired to the lobby and had pizza delivered from a restaurant on the property. Then Mr. Fintiklis played music from “Zorba the Greek” on the lobby’s baby grand piano while his friends sang along.Born in Cyprus, Mr. Fintiklis served as an officer in the country’s military before studying law at Oxford University. He now lives in South Florida and runs his own investment firm, Ithaca Capital Partners.“He’s a very smart individual, and he worked with us for 10 years so he’s very well trained,” said Pierre Charalambides, a co-founder of Dolphin Capital Partners, a real estate private equity firm where Mr. Fintiklis previously worked. “This battle with Trump, it fits him perfectly.”In 2017, Mr. Fintiklis agreed to buy 202 of the hotel’s 369 units for about $25 million, making him the controlling owner of the hotel. The 70-story tower also includes a casino and a separate condominium development, which are not part of the dispute between the Trumps and Mr. Fintiklis.The Trumps say they blessed the transaction, on the condition that Mr. Fintiklis not interfere with their management of the hotel.When the purchase was finalized in August, the Trump-Fintiklis partnership initially seemed promising. Mr. Fintiklis hailed the hotel as “an iconic property” and said he looked forward to working with the Trumps.But soon after closing on the purchase, he tried to remove them.His campaign began in earnest in October. He arranged for the hotel’s unit owners to meet — the Trumps say he falsely portrayed the session as a “meet and greet” — and they voted to declare the Trumps in default of their management agreement. The dispute soon spilled into the legal system, with Mr. Fintiklis seeking arbitration to remove the Trumps.AdvertisementThe Trumps say that the rapid-fire nature of Mr. Fintiklis’s legal efforts show that he never intended to cooperate, and that he had been planning an attack from the get-go.“We just want to run the hotel peacefully, and without interference,” said Mr. Garten, the Trump Organization lawyer. “But I look forward to litigating this, and have no doubt we will prevail.”The president continues to own the company through a trust but has turned over day-to-day management to his eldest sons, Donald Jr. and Eric.More than a decade ago — long before Mr. Fintiklis came into the picture — the Trumps began their foray into Panama when they teamed up with the developer Roger Khafif and his firm, Newland International Properties, as well as another partner.Newland signed an agreement with the Trump Organization, which would brand and manage the property. In a 2007 bond offering, Newland said the Trump name would be a boon to the project: “We benefit from the international prestige and name recognition associated with the Trump brand name.”The project united the Trumps with influential political figures, including Ricardo Martinelli, the president of Panama at the time. “You’re my friend. Great honor,” Mr. Trump said to the president at the grand opening in July 2011.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After his presidency, Mr. Martinelli fled to the United States in 2015 as Panamanian authorities opened an investigation into allegations of corruption and illegal surveillance. He is currently in the Federal Detention Center in Miami, fighting extradition.During the 2008 financial crisis, the project encountered financial difficulties during the development phase. Newland defaulted on its debt soon after the building opened and later filed for bankruptcy.When Mr. Fintiklis became majority owner last year, the hotel was struggling, a fact he soon blamed on the Trumps.AdvertisementWithering in his criticism, he said in one court filing that “abysmal management” of the hotel, along with “material breaches” of its management contract and fiduciary duties, had “dramatically” driven down profits and the condition of the building. “The hotel has been virtually empty,” the filing said, a claim the Trumps dispute.The Trump Organization declined to reveal the hotel’s occupancy rates, but in a letter to hotel unit owners, the company argued that the hotel “continues to outperform the market by a wide margin,” despite a weakening hotel market in Panama. The Trumps say that Mr. Fintiklis was aware of the hotel’s performance, and the broader hotel market woes, when he signed the deal.A hotel building boom over the past decade has tripled the number of hotel rooms in the country, according to Armando Rodríguez, president of the Panamanian Hotel Association. During the same period, however, occupancy rates have steadily fallen — to about 47 percent last year from about double that rate in 2008, Mr. Rodríguez said.Algerd Monstavicius, who bought one of the hotel’s penthouses as an investment in 2007, four years before the building opened, said he had seen revenues from his unit plummet in the past year. He attributes the falloff in part to President Trump’s hard-line stance on immigration and antipathy toward him across much of Latin America.“The perception is: Trump is anti-Latino,” said Mr. Monstavicius, 78, a retired pathologist living in Incline Village, Nev. “And that’s reflected in the occupancy.”Lawyers and executives from both sides of the dispute said the Panamanian government, at least so far, appeared to be showing no favoritism in either direction. At various times during the past week, delegations of government investigators and ministry officials, often accompanied by armed security forces, have spilled from the elevators into the hotel’s elegant sky lobby, as perplexed hotel guests looked on.As if the standoff were not bizarre enough, a number of apparent coincidences embellish the tale even further.For one, Dolphin Capital Partners, where Mr. Fintiklis worked for 10 years, was founded in 2004 by a pair of investors who once worked at George Soros’s real estate investment arm.AdvertisementThere is no evidence that Mr. Soros, a huge Democratic donor and critic of President Trump, played any role in the turmoil here, or that partisan American politics are a factor in the effort to remove the Trumps. Mr. Charalambides, the Dolphin co-founder, said his firm had no current business connection to Mr. Soros.In addition, Mr. Fintiklis’s New York lawyers operate out of 666 Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, the financially troubled office tower owned by the family of Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.And Mr. Fintiklis filed the registration papers for his company, Ithaca Capital Partners, in Delaware on Nov. 9, 2016 — the day after President Trump won the election.Kirk Semple reported from Panama City, and Ben Protess and Steve Eder from New York. Ana Graciela Méndez contributed reporting from Princeton, N.J., and Michael Forsythe from New York.A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Thugs, Leeches, Shouting and Shoving at Trump Hotel in Panama.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:Re “Trump Attacks Obama, and His Own Attorney General, Over Russia Inquiry” (news article, nytimes.com, Feb. 22):I noted with interest that after ample evidence that Russia will likely interfere in our midterm election, President Trump, instead of spearheading an effort to protect the election’s reliability, has decided instead to blame our previous president for Russian meddling.I couldn’t help thinking of Dwight D. Eisenhower’s quote: “The search for a scapegoat is the easiest of all hunting expeditions.”ROLF WETZELL, DELRAY BEACH, FLA.AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and KENNETH P. VOGELMARCH 27, 2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump kept a relatively low profile and did not make any public appearances on Tuesday, but emerged for a rare evening trip outside the White House to meet with deep-pocketed donors at a real estate developer’s home in Virginia.Mr. Trump, who usually prefers a steak served at his own hotel if he leaves the confines of the White House at night, traveled to the McLean, Va., home of Giuseppe Cecchi, according to a person with knowledge of the president’s plans. Mr. Cecchi is a loyalist who previously hosted Mr. Trump for a $10,000-a-couple fund-raising dinner in the final weeks of the 2016 presidential campaign.Since arriving back in Washington on Sunday from his Florida estate, Mr. Trump’s schedule showed no public appearances and he kept his usual tweeting to a minimum.He has opted instead to leave it to his aides to field questions about a continuing investigation into his campaign’s contact with Russia, allegations by a pornographic actress that his lawyer paid her to stay silent about an affair, a move to expel 60 Russian diplomats and his administration’s support for adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census.AdvertisementThe White House declined to offer additional information about the dinner, but stressed that it was not a fund-raiser.Advertisement“Tonight, the president will be having dinner with a group of supporters at a private residence in Virginia,” said Lindsay Walters, a deputy White House press secretary. “This dinner is not a fund-raiser. No funds have been solicited.”It was the second time this month that Mr. Trump traveled to a private home to meet with donors. Financial executives, an oil billionaire and the president’s oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., also attended the dinner at the home of a prominent lawyer.Even if no funds are raised at Tuesday’s dinner, it is part of a series of events intended to cultivate donors for two groups created to back Mr. Trump — America First Policies, a nonprofit formed to support his agenda, and America First Action, a “super PAC” that is supporting the campaigns of his allies and eventually his re-election campaign.The groups, which are seeking to raise $100 million this year, have hosted a series of events featuring Mr. Trump and top administration officials, including Vice President Mike Pence.Earlier on Tuesday, Mr. Pence headlined an “America First” rally in Fargo, N.D.“They’re trying to rally people around the tax cuts, and show how they have impacted local communities,” said Dan K. Eberhart, an Arizona oil investor and Republican donor who is an adviser to America First Policies and who attended the Fargo event.Headed into the 2018 midterm elections, Republicans are mostly facing a treacherous landscape in which they fear that Mr. Trump could be a liability in suburban districts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.America First intends to help balance the playing field, partly by dispatching administration officials into areas that Mr. Trump won handily in 2016, and partly by raising money from wealthy supporters to fund ads bolstering Republicans.The involvement of Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence is considered a key to the fund-raising efforts of the groups.AdvertisementAmerica First Policies and America First Action are overseen by the veteran Republican operative Brian O. Walsh.“America First Action is extremely honored to host President Trump as our special guest, along with supporters and friends of our organization,” he said in a statement. “We ensure that our activities at all times remain in full compliance with the law and ethics rules.”America First Action has been a popular source of income for Trump loyalists, including Corey Lewandowski, and the president’s newly named re-election campaign manager, Brad Parscale. The group’s goal with the dinners is to connect supporters of Mr. Trump with policy leaders, and to give face time to the people who had shown the president the most support, a person with knowledge of the process said.In 2016, Mr. Cecchi and his wife, Mercedes, also hosted donors at his home. Mr. Cecchi who at one point was known as the “condo king” of Washington, is known for developing the Watergate complex.For that event, attendees had to pay $10,000 to $100,000 for a photo opportunity with Mr. Trump and the chance to mingle with Reince Priebus, then the chairman of the Republican National Committee, and Steven T. Mnuchin, the finance chairman at the time for the Trump campaign.Mr. Cecchi could not be reached for comment. When reached by telephone, Mr. Cecchi’s son John did not offer further details of the event.“Whatever he’s doing,” John Cecchi, who was on the host committee of the 2016 event, said of his father, “I’m sure he’s psyched about it.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Meets With Donors In Virginia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Adam B. SchiffIn an Op-Ed video, Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California, calls on President Trump to protect Americans from Russian election interference.Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff), a Democrat from California, is the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLettersTo the Editor:Re “Trump Foresees National Guard Securing Border” (front page, April 4):President Trump’s latest tirade is a transparent ploy to press Congress for money to build his wall. His pattern is becoming tiresome: Do something outrageous as a negotiating tactic.Threatening to deploy our military to guard our border with Mexico also sends Mexico a message: You are not a friend; you are an adversary.Mexico cannot trust Mr. Trump’s volatility. Its government should respond by sending the Mexican military to the border to let the United States know that it will not tolerate any violation of its sovereignty.Nearly every day Mr. Trump breaks new erratic ground in creating chaos. Why would he stop now?WILLIAM GOLDMANPALOS VERDES ESTATES, CALIF.To the Editor:Re “Trump’s Perversion of Leadership,” by Frank Bruni (column, April 4):It is in his contempt for the very office he holds, his effort to make the presidency bend to him instead of giving it the respect it deserves and that we demand, that Donald Trump does the most damage.He luxuriates in his boorishness, somehow perceiving that changing what came before means repudiating every shred of decency, renouncing every ounce of compassion, rejecting every hint of morality.Even as we watched others in this office falter, we never sensed that the very essence of what made us a great country was under attack. We took comfort in the unshakable belief that our highest office was bigger than any one person, that its underlying principles were greater than the mistakes of omission or commission of any temporary holder, our structure stronger than any errors committed on one person’s watch.But that understanding has been shaken to the core. President Trump has made us question the fundamental belief of the greatness of the office of the presidency. And beyond all else, this we can never forgive.ROBERT S. NUSSBAUM, FORT LEE, N.J.To the Editor:Re “Firms Shudder as Trump’s Tweets Mean Business” (front page, April 4):Shouldn’t our president be promoting American business in general, not denigrating specific companies? Just one more example of insensitivity at the White House.MADELEINE B. GRANTNEEDHAM, MASS.AdvertisementBy KATHERINE ROSMAN and JACOB BERNSTEINMARCH 22, 2018
Last week, after more than 12 years of marriage, Vanessa Trump filed for an uncontested divorce in Manhattan from Donald Trump Jr., the eldest son of the president. In a joint statement, the couple said: “We have decided to go our separate ways.”“An uncontested divorce is the much saner and healthier way of doing things, which makes it unusual for the Trump family,” said Kenneth Burrows, a New York matrimonial lawyer who is not involved in the case.Precisely because of the Trump family’s reputation for chaos — not to mention that the Trump Organization, which is being run by Mr. Trump and his brother Eric, has been subpoenaed  by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III — the divorce announcement only served to foster curiosity about Ms. Trump, who has been something of a lesser-known member of the family.One detail that has been closely scrutinized is Ms. Trump’s selection of a lawyer, David Feureisen, who has a background in civil, criminal and divorce cases but is not a boldface name. He works in Westchester County, N.Y., and has a low profile in the media. (He did not respond to telephone and email requests for comment.)AdvertisementIn addition to handling Ms. Trump’s divorce, Mr. Feureisen also represented Ms. Trump’s mother, Bonnie Kay Haydon, in a recent real estate transaction.In September, Ms. Haydon, who is living in a rental apartment, paid $6.4 million in a cash deal for a three-bedroom condominium on Fifth Avenue and 86th Street with two terraces and a library. The apartment, which is undergoing a renovation, was purchased from Elizabeth Ailes, the widow of the former Fox News executive Roger Ailes, said Carol Staab, Ms. Ailes’s real estate broker.AdvertisementMs. Haydon said in an email that the family would not be making any statements. “We all love Vanessa, and support her in any way we can,” she wrote. The Trump Organization did not comment.Ms. Trump, 40, grew up in Manhattan.Her father, Charles Haydon (born Charles Hochman), was a lawyer. His clients included Solomon Schwartz, who in the 1980s was charged with trying to smuggle 500 rifles and ammunition into Poland, and Abe Hirschfeld, the eccentric real estate mogul who was tried for tax fraud but not convicted. Her mother, around 30 years his junior, ran Kay Models, a small modeling agency.Growing up, Ms. Trump was not a particularly distinguished student. She attended the Dwight School on the Upper West Side. In her high school yearbook, Ms. Trump was described both as most likely to “be on Ricki Lake” and to “get a divorce.”After high school, Ms. Trump was a model with Wilhelmina Models, the agency once known for representing supermodels including Iman. In the late 1990s, Ms. Trump and her younger sister, Veronika, became fixtures of the Manhattan party scene, hanging out at bottle service clubs during the era of Moomba and Veruka.“They were pretty girls who liked getting photographed,” said Lizzie Grubman, the publicist, who sometimes squired them around and said she couldn’t now remember whether she was paid to do publicity for the sisters or simply helped them out.During that time, the sisters had several turns in the tabloids. According to a 1998 item in Star, Leonardo DiCaprio was said to have “fallen hard for a stunning young model” named Vanessa Haydon. Mr. DiCaprio’s publicist later said, “he never dated her.” A former classmate from Dwight told New York magazine, “Vanessa played the media really well.”AdvertisementNot long after Veronika finished high school, she had a child with the restaurateur Stratis Morfogen. In 2001, she and her sister showed up in a New York Post story after visiting the Conscience Point Inn in the Hamptons with Mr. Morfogen. That night, he had an unfortunate run-in with a bouncer. He also opened an unruly nightclub called Sessa, the name that Veronika Haydon’s daughter, who was 3 at the time, used for her aunt because she couldn’t pronounce her full name. Mr. Morfogen and Veronika Haydon later got divorced. He now operates a restaurant on East 60th Street.Donald Trump Jr. entered Vanessa’s life at a 2003 fashion show for a Kmart brand at Capitale, a nightclub on the Lower East Side; the brand was fronted by the musician Thalía. Ms. Grubman was representing the brand and sitting near the elder Mr. Trump, who introduced Vanessa to his son twice that evening.The couple made headlines with their engagement in 2004. The younger Mr. Trump proposed with a $100,000 ring that he got for free by agreeing to stage his proposal before paparazzi at the Short Hills Mall where the jeweler of the ring, Bailey Banks & Biddle, was located. The move frustrated his father, who complained about it on “Larry King Live.” (The publicity ploy ultimately didn’t work. By 2009, Bailey Banks & Biddle was in bankruptcy and the Short Hills location was closed.)The couple was married at Mar-a-Lago in November 2005. During the ceremony, guests including Bo Dietl, the police detective turned TV commentator, and Sophie Dahl, the model and author, were seated around a swimming pool.Christine Schott, who at the time worked as a model manager and publicist for Ms. Trump, was there, and staying at Mar-a-Lago. She spent at least some of the night helping the press keep straight which blond matron was the bride’s mother and which was the groom’s. “The paparazzi kept having to ask me who was who because Ivana looked so much like Vanessa’s mother,” she said. “They both were tall with big blond buns.”Ms. Schott recalled seeing the elder Mr. Trump and introducing herself as the bride’s publicist. “The president said, ‘Vanessa has a publicist?’” Ms. Schott said. “He was annoyed.”Ms. Schott, who is now starting a business to help the careers of beauty influencers, also recalled that it was a happy occasion for the new Ms. Trump. “Vanessa was very loving, she was very much in love with Donnie, she was excited to become a Trump,” Ms. Schott said. “She told me at the wedding that she wanted five children. She was very specific about that. Not three, not four, but five.”About a year and a half into the marriage, Ms. Trump gave birth to the couple’s first child, a daughter named Kai. Four more children followed over the next seven years.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Since her marriage, Ms. Trump, who once actively sought the spotlight, has become less of a public figure. She is described as an involved, doting mother and is often seen at school for drop-offs and pickups.AdvertisementAt the same time, her husband, who was something of a black sheep, became his father’s most ardent supporter, including appearing on “The Apprentice,” his father’s television show. Because of his appearances on TV, Mr. Dietl said, women were “throwing themselves” at the younger Mr. Trump. When his father ran for president, Mr. Trump emerged as a strident voice on social media and the campaign trail.“He’s never around,” Mr. Dietl said. “I definitely had that sense.”The pressure of being part of the first family has taken a toll on Ms. Trump, people who know her say. In February, she was understandably rattled when she opened a letter addressed to her husband that had been sent to her mother’s rental apartment. White powder spilled out. Both Ms. Trump and her mother were taken to a hospital; the powder was later revealed to be cornstarch.Ms. Schott said that early on, Ms. Trump was concerned about her husband’s big-game hunting. “I know she wasn’t thrilled that he hunted as he did,” Ms. Schott said. “I know she wanted to keep it on the DL. She knew that was going to be a big issue, socially.”Ms. Trump appears to have been raised in a more liberal family than that of her estranged husband. Less than a month after President Trump was inaugurated, Ms. Haydon, Ms. Trump’s mother, posted a story on Facebook headlined, “I’m an American living in Sweden. Here’s why I came to embrace the higher taxes.” Ms. Haydon’s public Facebook is usually confined to family pictures and the occasional viral video, although in 2015 she reposted a meme from an account called Occupy Democrats that mocked American appetites for assault rifles — and another meme, from Daily Kos, that showed Republican politicians, including Speaker of the House Paul D. Ryan, with the text “People without vaginas shouldn’t be able to regulate them.”Even so, Ms. Trump wasn’t averse to appearing by the family’s side, both in the flesh and on social media, throughout the campaign’s various milestones.As for Ms. Trump’s future, Ms. Schott has high hopes. “I think she could still have a nice career,” she said. “She could be a mommy blogger and she could take on a cause. She is in a position to do something great.”An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to a 2001 encounter between the restaurateur Stratis Morfogen and a bouncer. Mr. Morfogen accused the bouncer of putting him in a chokehold, but the two did not fight.With additional reporting by Doris Burke.A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 2018, on Page ST1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Trump  Is Exiting  The Family.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and EILEEN SULLIVANMARCH 21, 2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump defended on Wednesday his decision to disregard the advice of his national security team and congratulate President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on his re-election, lashing out at the news media for reporting on how he diverged from his script and attacking his predecessors for failing to improve relations with Moscow.Mr. Trump, enraged after officials leaked the contents of confidential notes he was given for the private phone call on Tuesday that exhorted him “DO NOT CONGRATULATE” Mr. Putin, argued in a pair of tweets on Wednesday afternoon that the conversation was part of his effort to foster better relations with Russia. He said such engagement could help the United States confront a host of national security challenges.“I called President Putin of Russia to congratulate him on his election victory (in past, Obama called him also),” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, referring to President Barack Obama’s call to Mr. Putin in 2012. “The Fake News Media is crazed because they wanted me to excoriate him. They are wrong!”But Mr. Trump’s handling of the call and his defense of it also pointed up his aversion to confronting Mr. Putin about Moscow’s misdeeds, which has become a theme of his presidency even as a special counsel investigates Russia’s efforts to sway the 2016 election in his favor.AdvertisementMr. Trump’s own advisers had warned him against congratulating Mr. Putin and, in briefing cards prepared before the call, told him to raise Moscow’s role in a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter living in Britain, an instruction he also ignored. The Washington Post first reported on the briefing cards, a leak that stunned some senior officials at the White House, where aides said on Wednesday that John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, had been deeply disappointed and frustrated by the disclosure.AdvertisementOne senior White House official said Mr. Trump had never seen the briefing cards. Another said the president had been determined not to antagonize Mr. Putin, believing that his rapport with the Russian leader was the key to better relations between the countries.It was that rationale that Mr. Trump appeared to embrace on Wednesday.“Getting along with Russia (and others) is a good thing, not a bad thing,” the president wrote. “They can help solve problems with North Korea, Syria, Ukraine, ISIS, Iran and even the coming Arms Race.”The president also took on his predecessors, both Republican and Democrat, saying they had been incapable of forging better relations with Moscow.“Bush tried to get along, but didn’t have the ‘smarts,’” Mr. Trump wrote. “Obama and Clinton tried, but didn’t have the energy or chemistry (remember RESET).”He was referring to the policy of Hillary Clinton, his 2016 campaign rival, who as secretary of state in Mr. Obama’s administration pursued a “reset” with Russia aimed at turning around a dysfunctional relationship.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The call revived questions about Mr. Trump’s stance toward Mr. Putin just after his administration had taken its most aggressive steps against Moscow, moving last week to impose sanctions for Russia’s interference in the election and other “malicious cyberattacks.”The United States also joined Britain, France and Germany in denouncing the Russian government for violating international law for the attack on the spy, Sergei V. Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia.Still, since his first face-to-face meeting with Mr. Putin over the summer, Mr. Trump has consistently refused to criticize the Russian president directly. In November, after a meeting with Mr. Putin on the sideline of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Danang, Vietnam, Mr. Trump said the Russian president “means it” when he denied having meddled in the 2016 election, and was “very insulted by” the charge, which is the conclusion of American intelligence agencies.AdvertisementMr. Trump began his day on Wednesday indirectly criticizing Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for the Russia investigation, continuing to attack him by name against the advice of his own lawyers.“I was opposed to the selection of Mueller to be Special Council,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter in quotes he attributed to Alan M. Dershowitz, a professor emeritus at Harvard Law School. “I think President Trump was right when he said there never should have been a Special Council appointed because there was no probable cause for believing that there was any crime, collusion or otherwise, or obstruction of justice!”It was not immediately clear on Wednesday which remarks of Mr. Dershowitz’s the president was quoting. An interview with Mr. Dershowitz on Fox News on Tuesday and an opinion piece by Mr. Dershowitz published on Wednesday did not include the exact phrasing that Mr. Trump used in his tweets. And the language was not found in a search of Mr. Dershowitz’s cable news appearances over the past week.Justin Bank and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 2018, on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Says He Fostered Relations In Putin Call.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. Shear and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — After 61 weeks in the White House, President Trump has found two people he won’t attack on Twitter: Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal.The verbose commander in chief has posted more than 2,900 times on Twitter since taking office, using the term “FAKE NEWS” to describe everything from the Russia inquiry and allegations of chaos in the White House to harassment accusations, the size of his inaugural crowds and heated arguments with world leaders.But he has been uncharacteristically silent in recent days — to the relief of his advisers — as a pornographic film star and a Playboy model described intimate details of sexual encounters with Mr. Trump. Stephanie Clifford, known in pornographic films as Stormy Daniels, said Sunday night on CBS’s “60 Minutes” that she once spanked the president with a copy of Forbes magazine bearing his face on the cover.The fact that the president has not given oxygen to the headlines, however, does not mean that he is content.Inside the White House, Mr. Trump is eager to defend himself against allegations that he insists are false, those close to him say. And he is growing increasingly frustrated with breathless, wall-to-wall news media coverage of the salacious details from the two women.On Monday, Ms. Clifford’s lawyer added new charges to the suit she filed: that the president’s lawyer defamed Ms. Clifford in denying her claims; that he and Mr. Trump pursued the deal to specifically help Mr. Trump’s election prospects; and that he then structured the agreement to shield from public view what was, effectively, an illegal $130,000 campaign gift.In discussions with allies and some aides, Mr. Trump has privately railed against Ms. Clifford, and insisted that she is not telling the truth. He has reminded advisers that he joined an effort to enforce financial penalties against Ms. Clifford, whose TV interview on Sunday night was hyped throughout the weekend on the cable news channels that Mr. Trump watches obsessively.But there has been no debate among Mr. Trump’s advisers about the best course for him: just keep quiet about a story that would only be fueled by a presidential tweet or a comment about the women shouted above the roar of Marine One.Keeping a lid on Mr. Trump is never easy, especially when he is eager to hit back at his adversaries.In the days after an “Access Hollywood” video exposed his own lewd comments about women during the final month of the campaign, Mr. Trump responded by showing up at his debate with Hillary Clinton with three women who had accused Bill Clinton of sexual improprieties.As a candidate, and as president, Mr. Trump has eagerly attacked just about all of his enemies and accusers, often with colorful nicknames like “Little Rocket Man” for the North Korean leader, “Crazy Joe Biden” or “Sloppy Steve” Bannon.But for now, it appears that the president is listening to — and accepting — his advisers’ warnings on the dangers of speaking out about the women, much the way he followed the advice of his lawyers for a year not to attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel in the Russia inquiry.Recently, he has ditched that advice, attacking Mr. Mueller and his team directly on Twitter. That leaves only his alleged mistresses and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as people who are immune to Mr. Trump’s Twitter trash-talk.Raj Shah, a deputy White House press secretary, declined to say “what the president may or may not have seen” on television Sunday night, though he said that Mr. Trump denies the allegations that Ms. Clifford made in the CBS interview.“I’ll just say that he’s consistently denied these allegations,” Mr. Shah said. “The president doesn’t believe that any of the claims that Ms. Daniels made last night in the interview are accurate.”Mr. Trump dined at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida on Saturday evening with Michael D. Cohen, his lawyer and longtime aide who is at the center of the Clifford scandal, according to three people familiar with the get-together. The president scheduled the meeting himself, surprising his aides with it a short time before Mr. Cohen arrived, people familiar with the meeting said.Melania Trump, too, has been silent about the allegations. Asked to react to the interviews, Stephanie Grisham, Mrs. Trump’s spokeswoman, said: “She’s focusing on being a mother, she’s quite enjoying her spring break and she’s focused on future projects.”It is not clear whether Mr. Trump watched a similar tell-all interview on CNN on Thursday evening, when Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, alleged a 10-month romantic affair with Mr. Trump in which they repeatedly had sex.Sunday’s interview with Ms. Clifford contained few surprises but some humiliating details, such as Ms. Clifford saying she was not attracted to Mr. Trump, and her recollection of spanking him. Virility and strength are key traits that the president likes to project, and he once gloated about a New York Post headline quoting a friend of his second wife, Marla Maples, who recalled Ms. Maples saying that Mr. Trump was the “Best Sex I’ve Ever Had.”In the interview, Ms. Clifford said that she had flirted with Mr. Trump in 2006 at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe. She said Mr. Trump had compared her favorably to his daughter during the flirtation, and that she had intercourse with Mr. Trump.She also alleged that an unknown person whom she believed to be connected to Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen threatened her in a parking lot in 2011, telling her, “leave Trump alone. Forget the story.” Then looking at her infant daughter, he added, “That’s a beautiful little girl. It would be a shame if something happened to her mom.”Asked by Anderson Cooper whether she had anything to say to Mr. Trump, if he was watching Sunday night, Ms. Clifford said, “He knows I’m telling the truth.”Even that has not prompted Mr. Trump to directly address the central allegations from Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal — that the president cheated on his wife shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son.Mr. Trump did type out a vague “Fake News” tweet on Monday morning, although it is unclear to what he was referring.Beyond the details of the alleged encounters, Mr. Trump’s advisers have been urging the president to keep quiet about the legal wrangling concerning Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal.Ms. McDougal, who accepted $150,000 from the parent company of the National Enquirer to keep quiet about her alleged affair with Mr. Trump, is suing the company to be released from the contract. Mr. Cohen has acknowledged paying Ms. Clifford $130,000 in the days before the 2016 election to keep quiet about her allegations.Mr. Shah said at the White House on Monday that “I can say categorically that, obviously, the White House didn’t engage in any wrongdoing.”Asked about why Mr. Trump’s lawyer would pay Ms. Clifford $130,000 if her allegations were false, Mr. Shah said that “false charges are settled out of court all the time.” He referred further questions about the case to Mr. Cohen.The lawyer for Ms. Clifford has aggressively argued that his client is not bound by the nondisclosure agreement that she signed, in part because Mr. Trump himself never signed the document. Michael Avenatti, the lawyer, has repeatedly used Trumplike insinuations to suggest that Ms. Clifford has digital evidence of the intercourse.“We have a litany of more evidence in this case, and it’s going to be disclosed, and it’s going to be laid bare for the American public,” Mr. Avenatti said in an interview Monday morning on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”Last week, Mr. Avenatti tweeted a picture of a CD or DVD with the suggestive caption: “If a picture is worth a thousand words, how many words is this worth???? #60minutes #pleasedenyit #basta.”Even that has not prompted a presidential retort — yet.Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from New York.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionFrank BruniAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardSeeing someone stand up to a bully is cathartic. That feeling is magnified when the bully is the president of the United States and his abusive behavior cries out for a response from honorable people.The problem is that a vast majority of the people in the best position to put weight behind such a response, Republicans in Congress, have kept silent.So it’s understandable that many Americans delighted in the rare, remarkably aggressive display of anger directed at President Trump over the weekend by some of his favorite targets — the nation’s formerly highest-ranking law enforcement and intelligence officials — following Mr. Trump’s predictable gloating over the late-Friday-night firing of Andrew McCabe, the former deputy director of the F.B.I.Mr. McCabe accused the president of waging an “ongoing war on the F.B.I.” and said his firing showed what happens when “people who are supposed to cherish and protect our institutions become instruments for damaging those institutions and people.” James Comey, whom Mr. Trump fired as F.B.I. director last May and continued to attack ever since, tweeted, in reference to his forthcoming book, that Americans would soon be able to “judge for themselves who is honorable and who is not.” And John Brennan, who ran the C.I.A. under President Barack Obama, simply unloaded on Mr. Trump: “When the full extent of your venality, moral turpitude, and political corruption becomes known, you will take your rightful place as a disgraced demagogue in the dustbin of history.”Declarations like these may be important to make and gratifying to read, but they really shouldn’t be coming from those whose integrity depends on them remaining outside the political fray, even in these insane times. For starters, they make it easier for Mr. Trump and his defenders to argue, as they already do, that crucial witnesses in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, into the Trump campaign’s possible ties to Russia are biased against the president. Mr. McCabe acknowledged this dynamic in an interview with The Times, describing his dismissal as “part of an effort to discredit me as a witness.” He’s right. But now that he has taken the bait and defended himself publicly — however understandable that is — he has fed that dynamic.It’s not that Mr. Trump is more credible than these men; to the contrary, it’s hard to think of an American public figure right now with less credibility than the president, who boasted last week about lying to the Canadian prime minister. It’s that this is exactly how Mr. Trump likes it: He drags people down to his level, forcing them to choose between retaliation and silence.Their decision wouldn’t be so hard if the G.O.P. leadership in Congress were not, as usual, morally absent. Cynical as ever, Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, has said nothing in the face of the president’s degrading tweets and renewed attacks on the Mueller investigation. The House speaker, Paul Ryan, sent a spokeswoman out to issue a milquetoast defense of the special counsel. By keeping mum as Mr. Trump marauds across American democracy, they are forcing the targets of his attacks to defend themselves and also abetting Mr. Trump’s assault on the credibility of the F.B.I. and the Justice Department.A handful of Republicans have spoken up — the usual suspects, like Senator Jeff Flake, who called the firing of Mr. Mueller “a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” and Senator Lindsey Graham, who repeated his warning to Mr. Trump that it would be “the beginning of the end of his presidency.” On Sunday, Representative Trey Gowdy, who knows a thing or two about long-running investigations, scolded Mr. Trump’s lawyer John Dowd for urging the shutdown of Mr. Mueller’s investigation. “If you have an innocent client, Mr. Dowd, act like it,” Mr. Gowdy said.Republicans should be pushing back on Mr. Trump now in part to keep him from firing Mr. Mueller, a move that could strain our institutions past their breaking point.Even better, they should pass legislation protecting Mr. Mueller from being fired without good cause. The need for such a law grows more urgent daily. In his weekend Twitter outburst, Mr. Trump for the first time targeted Mr. Mueller by name, and on Monday, The Times reported, he added to his legal team a lawyer who has argued on television that F.B.I. and Justice Department officials framed the president.Meanwhile, Mr. Comey, Mr. McCabe and the others who face Mr. Trump’s taunts and provocations should remember the old warning about wrestling a pig. You only get covered in mud — and, besides, the pig likes it.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy PETER BAKER, ANDREW HIGGINS and STEVEN ERLANGERMARCH 30, 2018
WASHINGTON — Some senior Trump administration officials are pressing for more aggressive action toward Russia, hoping to persuade a reluctant President Trump to change his approach after a week of mass diplomatic expulsions that have driven the relationship with Moscow to its lowest point in decades.With hundreds of diplomats in Washington, Moscow and European capitals packing their bags as the tensions stemming from the poisoning of a former Russian spy living in Britain have worsened, the Trump team is eyeing additional sanctions and other measures against Russia. But while aides say the president has become increasingly convinced that Russia is dangerous, he has still refused to embrace a tougher public posture himself and remains uncertain how far to authorize his administration to go.Mr. Trump has emphasized the importance of dialogue with Russia and its president, Vladimir V. Putin, yet the departure of so many diplomats expelled from both Russia and the United States will make it that much harder to maintain a semblance of normal relations between the two countries. Cooperation in areas as varied as agriculture, counterterrorism, military affairs and space exploration could diminish, as could private travel and business dealings.The perils of the diplomatic breakdown came into sharper relief on Friday. Russia’s ambassador in Washington lamented that no one would meet with him, and his embassy complained that Russian diplomats were being harassed by American intelligence agencies eager to recruit them.AdvertisementThe Pentagon, for its part, said that it had no notice of a test of a new intercontinental ballistic missile conducted by Russia and announced on Friday, a lack of communication that experts worry could lead to miscalculation.Advertisement“I don’t remember such bad shape of our relations,” Anatoly Antonov, the Russian ambassador to Washington, told NBC’s “Today” show. “There is a great mistrust between the United States and Russia.”Since his arrival last year in Washington, Mr. Antonov said he had invited American officials to his residence only to be repeatedly rebuffed. “If they are scared, I said, ‘Come on, we can meet in a restaurant and to discuss all outstanding issues,’” he said. “It was four or five months ago. And I got answer: silent.”American officials said a shift in the administration’s approach has been building for weeks. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, whose last official day on the job is Saturday, had come to the conclusion before Mr. Trump fired him this month that a year of attempting to cooperate had not yielded much success, according to people familiar with his thinking. As a result, they said, Mr. Tillerson had begun mapping out a tougher policy toward Russia and found agreement in the White House.The administration began taking a more robust approach, publicly blaming Russia for a devastating attack on computers in Ukraine and elsewhere, accusing Moscow of trying to break into the United States’ power grid and imposing sanctions in retaliation for Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election in the United States.Mr. Tillerson’s feelings were hardened further by a conversation with Boris Johnson, the British foreign secretary who described to him the nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy, Sergei V. Skripal, and his daughter living in Britain. Even in the hours before his dismissal by Mr. Trump, Mr. Tillerson spoke out in stronger terms than the president in condemning the poisoning.While Mr. Tillerson is on the way out, his designated successor, Mike Pompeo, and the incoming national security adviser, John R. Bolton, are both considered even more hawkish on Russia.At the same time, some officials at the Pentagon have expressed caution about the escalating conflict with Russia, citing consequences in Syria, where the United States and Russia have both conducted military operations.AdvertisementThe Trump administration expelled 60 Russian diplomats and intelligence officers and closed the Russian Consulate in Seattle this week as part of a wider international retaliation for the poisoning of Mr. Skripal. Russia responded Thursday by ordering out 60 Americans and closing the consulate in St. Petersburg.The scope of Russia’s retaliation grew clearer on Friday as the Kremlin summoned 23 ambassadors from other countries to evict some of their diplomats. On Saturday, the Tass news agency reported that Moscow had informed Britain it must send home a total of “more than 50” diplomats. Russia had already announced the expulsion of 23 Britons.Mr. Trump has remained publicly silent amid the dramatic rounds of diplomatic retaliation, leaving it to others to condemn Moscow. Frustrated by the investigation of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into whether his campaign cooperated with Russia in 2016, a scenario he dismissed as a “hoax,” Mr. Trump recently called Mr. Putin to congratulate him on his victory in a re-election widely dismissed as a sham.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump made no mention of the poisoning of Mr. Skripal during the call but instead suggested that he wanted to schedule a summit meeting with the Russian president.Both countries still have ambassadors in place, so high-level contact on potentially calamitous matters should continue, as it did at the height of the Cuban missile crisis. But the wheels of basic diplomacy, involving visas, consular services, cultural events and simply talking to people, are grinding ever more slowly and, in some cases, coming to a halt.“The parties lose some of their eyes and ears, so the quality of the reporting goes down,” said Charles A. Kupchan, who was the Europe director of the National Security Council under President Barack Obama. “It’s not just intelligence but day-to-day political and economic reporting: What’s the buzz in the street, what do interlocutors say? And consular services do get hit.”The expulsions left many diplomats wondering how the American Embassy in Moscow could operate. Much of the burden will fall on the ambassador, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who took over an embassy already struggling to function after an order by the Kremlin last summer that it dispense with 755 employees in response to sweeping American sanctions for Russia’s election meddling.“The embassy is struggling to do basic operations. This latest round will hurt,” said Michael A. McFaul, who served as ambassador in Moscow from 2012 to 2014. “Morale, of course, is also very low.”Even before this week’s expulsions, the wait in Moscow to obtain a visitor’s visa to the United States was among the longest in the world. It now takes 250 days just to get an appointment with the visa section, compared with four in Beijing and 31 in New Delhi.AdvertisementAn American spokesman told Russian news media this week that the embassy had been placed under “significant constraints” by the Foreign Ministry and “could not accommodate all their many requests at all times, particularly for large groups.”Simon Schuchat, a former diplomat at the embassy in the Moscow, recalled how haphazard and unnerving it was when Russia began the process of ousting alleged spies during a round of expulsions in 2001. Inevitably, Moscow ordered out diplomats unconnected to espionage.“They tended to go for people with better language skills,” Mr. Schuchat said, adding that they “missed many spies and included many non-spies.”This time around, intelligence officers working under “official cover” as diplomats were especially targeted, but some American officials played down the impact, saying the United States still came out ahead in the expulsions.“That’s to our benefit,” Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, said at a seminar on Thursday in Austin, Tex. “There are a lot more Russians in America than Americans in Russia in the intelligence agencies.”On Friday, Russia’s Foreign Ministry accused the agencies overseen by Mr. Coats of exploiting the situation by approaching Russian diplomats leaving the United States to offer “assistance” in exchange for “entering into covert relations” on behalf of the American government.“The ploy is not working,” the ministry said in a statement, “but their behavior is cynical and distasteful, as if Washington has stepped completely beyond the bounds of common decency.”Peter Baker reported from Washington, Andrew Higgins from Moscow, and Steven Erlanger from Brussels. Gardiner Harris contributed reporting from Washington, Matthew Luxmoore from Moscow, and Eric Schmitt from Austin, Tex.A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Is Urged To Get Tougher On Russia Policy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE NEW YORK TIMESMARCH 11, 2018
President Trump on Sunday disputed a New York Times report describing discussions it said he had had with a veteran lawyer about joining the White House to help handle matters related to the special counsel inquiry.In a pair of tweets, Mr. Trump wrote that The Times “purposely wrote a false story stating that I am unhappy with my legal team on the Russia case and am going to add another lawyer to help out.”The Times, in a statement issued by its communications department, said, “We stand by our reporting, which was confirmed by multiple people close to the president.”The newspaper reported that the lawyer, Emmet T. Flood, who represented President Bill Clinton during his impeachment process, had met with Mr. Trump in the Oval Office last week. It said that Mr. Trump had not made a final decision on whether to bring on Mr. Flood, who would help the White House manage its contacts with the Justice Department.The Times said there had been signs in recent months that Mr. Trump might be looking to shake up his legal team as the special counsel inquiry stretches beyond the timeline given to him by Ty Cobb, the lawyer leading the Trump team’s response to the investigation.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »
The Daily By                     
 MICHAEL BARBARO
 
MARCH 1, 2018
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherThe president stunned lawmakers with calls for gun control. Also, Hope Hicks, the White House communications director, is to step down.President Trump stunned lawmakers on Wednesday with calls for gun control and jabs at the National Rifle Association. “They have great power over you people,” he said of the N.R.A. “They have less power over me.”Separately, Hope Hicks, the White House communications director who testified this week that her job required telling “white lies” for Mr. Trump, is to step down.On today’s episode:• Maggie Haberman, who covers the White House for The New York Times.• Michael D. Shear, a White House correspondent for The Times.AdvertisementBackground reading:• President Trump surprised lawmakers with what seemed to be an embrace of gun control.• Hope Hicks is to leave the White House.AdvertisementTune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Maggie Haberman and Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah and Clare Toeniskoetter, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By BEN PROTESS and STEVE EDERMARCH 8, 2018
Travelers trying to book a stay at the Trump International Hotel & Tower Panama on Thursday found no rooms available on TrumpHotels.com.But the website for the Bahia Grand Panama had several luxurious options, at the very same oceanfront hotel.The dueling websites — and their conflicting occupancy information — are the latest twist in the oft-bizarre battle between President Trump’s family business and the majority owner of the Panama City property, who has spent months trying to oust the Trumps as both the managers and the branders of the hotel.On Monday, the majority owner, Orestes Fintiklis, declared victory and a worker pried the silver T-R-U-M-P name from the property, even as the Trump Organization described the move as legally improper and disputed that it had permanently lost control.AdvertisementBy Thursday, a statement was released that said the hotel had a new name, Bahia Grand Panama; a new website; and even new social media accounts. The statement, sent from “Public Relations,” declared, “As of today, the former Trump International Hotel & Tower Panama is no longer managed by or affiliated with Trump brand.”AdvertisementDon’t tell that to the Trumps, who continue to make their case in various legal venues.In a statement, the Trump Organization’s chief legal officer, Alan Garten, noted that the management contract “mandates that all disputes be resolved through binding arbitration” and that “Trump Hotels has filed a $50 million lawsuit against Mr. Fintiklis.”With a hammer and a crowbar, the Trump name was pried off a Panama City hotel amid a contentious dispute between the Trump Organization and the hotel's majority owner.Mr. Fintiklis’s actions on Thursday, Mr. Garten said, “constitute an abuse of process and represent another attempt by him to misuse the Panamanian courts in an effort to circumvent arbitration.”“We look forward to litigating this matter in the forum agreed upon by the parties where we are confident we will prevail,” Mr. Garten said.Amid the legal wrangling, the Trump Organization’s website and social media for the property continued to exist, with no sign of the struggle.But when a reporter tried to book a room, the Trump website — replete with information on accommodations, dining options and the health club — responded as if the hotel was filled: “We apologize. There are no available rooms for your requested stay. Please check your dates and try again.”Over at thebahiagrand.com, a message greeted guests: “Welcome to the Bahia Grand Panama, the only luxury hotel directly on the open waters of the majestic gulf of Panama City — with one exciting change — we’re under new management.”Even though the name was not unveiled until Thursday, the hotel owners seemed to have had it picked out for more than a month. The new website was registered on Jan. 30, according to records from the cyberforensics company DomainTools.AdvertisementThe bare-bones website does not detail where guests can eat or drink on the property. But one thing is clear: The “book now” tab shows availability.In fact, the fight between the Trumps and Mr. Fintiklis has centered on the hotel’s occupancy rates.Mr. Fintiklis has claimed that profit has plummeted as the hotel sat “virtually empty.”The Trump Organization disputes that claim and argues that the hotel “continues to outperform the market by a wide margin” as the broader Panamanian hotel business has struggled.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The dispute exploded last month when Mr. Fintiklis appeared at the hotel with an entourage and sought to fire several Trump-employed staff members. The Trump employees stood their ground.Then, on Monday, Mr. Fintiklis arrived with a contingent of court officials and police officers — and a Panamanian court order authorizing a change of administration.He declared victory. The Trumps pushed back.The Panamanian court order, the Trumps argued, merely authorized “the appointment of a temporary, third party administrator to oversee the management of the property while the underlying dispute is being litigated.”That nuance did not prevent Mr. Fintiklis, a Cypriot citizen, from heading to the baby grand piano in the lobby to play and sing “Accordeon,” a popular Greek song about the fight against fascism.The piano is not featured on either website.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Economic View By                     
ROBERT J. SHILLER

MARCH 23, 2018
When big shifts like recessions are on the way, economists just aren’t very good at predicting them.The truth is that we really can’t foresee where the economy will be heading in a year or two, a limitation that is particularly troubling right now, in the midst of what may be called the Trump economic boom.President Trump is, after all, a public figure like no other, and his unique — and polarizing — effect on mass psychology appears to be muddling the economic data even more than usual.Consider how easy it is to be lulled into complacency about the current state of the economy. Growth in the gross domestic product has been strong, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act amounts to a stimulative fiscal policy, interest rates are still low and consumer confidence is high.AdvertisementAll of this may cause us to assume that the economy will expand forever — and lead us to forget that recessions tend to come, on average, every five years (though lately, some have taken longer than that to develop). Since 1854, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States has had 33 recessions, and it has already been 105 months since the last one.AdvertisementIf the economy manages to expand for 16 more months, the United States will have set a record. But whenever a recession arrives, the timing is likely to surprise most economists. Data from 1968 to 2017, supplied by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in its quarterly Survey of Professional Forecasters, shows that while professional forecasters as a group have had some ability to assess the probability that G.D.P. will decline in the next three months, they have exhibited no ability to do so a year in the future.In fact, the latest survey gives a 17 percent probability that real G.D.P. will decline a year from now — which is the average probability for a decline in one year given in all of the surveys since 1970. In essence, these forecasters are saying that nothing special is on the horizon. The risk of a recession is perfectly average. That might be comforting if these predictions were accurate, but, sadly, they are not.Then there are the confidence indexes, which measure perceptions of business activity in the present and near future. There are strong readings in much of the world. But these findings are limited in their scope.The Conference Board, for example, in its compilation of the Consumer Confidence Index in the United States, essentially asks respondents whether they think we are on the verge of a recession, or may even be in one. The index does not plumb the underlying attitudes that might be setting the stage either for a long and strong boom or a long and damaging depression, though it is a leading indicator of short-term shifts.At the moment, Mr. Trump appears to be elevating the levels of the main confidence indexes. That’s to be expected: He may well be the first president who is, at his core, a motivational speaker.“Go with your gut,” he said in the 2007 book “Think Big and Kick Ass in Business and Life,” which he wrote with Bill Zanker. (The title was later changed to “Think Big: Make It Happen in Business and Life.”) “Take chances,” he said. “If you think you have the ingredients that you need, take chances, because your biggest successes will happen when you go against the tide.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump seems to be a living example of going with your gut. Consider his comments on climate change. Scientists generally think global warming is real and human generated. Who would dare to take on all those scientists? Mr. Trump would, because their conclusions just don’t sound right to him, even if he can’t explain why. And the Trump narrative presents him as an unrivaled success: a billionaire, a bon vivant and now president.In the same book, Mr. Trump said his approach implied stress: “I want to tell you about the negatives of business as well as the positives. I want to talk about the fact that most people are not cut out to deal with the high stress level of being a great success.” But he advocates stressful risk-taking, not quiet contemplation, for readers who can handle it.AdvertisementMr. Trump has personified these ideas and attracted millions of people to them, shifting mass psychology in ways that the confidence indexes will have a hard time capturing. The indexes routinely miss the major changes in spirit that cause long-term economic phenomena like the reckless prosperity of the Roaring Twenties, a decade of high adventuresome spirit in business. Too high, actually.This confidence crashed, shifting into the gloom of the Great Depression of the 1930s, a period characterized by waves of recriminations and disappointment. As the decade wore on, the term “secular stagnation” became prominent. That depression was “great” partly because it lasted more than 10 years. It wasn’t the kind of greatness that Mr. Trump aspires to in his slogan “Make America Great Again.”A future downturn isn’t a widespread top-of-mind concern, the confidence indexes show. Instead, we may surmise that at the moment, many people are emulating Mr. Trump and trying to think big. Even those who loathe him might be inspired by his personal success, though this isn’t being measured by the confidence indexes.But at some point, a significant recession will appear. We can only guess what might make it materialize.Contagious words and stories, analogous to those using the #MeToo hashtag, could be enough to change the public mood about the Trump boom. Maybe a shift will come from the kind of stories that contributed to the dot-com collapse: tales of recently revered companies that turned out to have taken too many chances and so flamed out and crashed.A downturn could be set off by compromising stories about Mr. Trump himself, possibly those impugning his judgment in starting an international trade war. Or maybe it will be something subtler, whose link to animal spirits and mass psychology is only indirect.We don’t really know what will do it. But rest assured, the next recession will surely come.Robert J. Shiller is Sterling professor of economics at Yale.A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 2018, on Page BU4 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Boom Lulls Some Into Complacency.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MATTHEW HAAG and JACEY FORTINMARCH 15, 2018
Vanessa Haydon Trump, the wife of President Trump’s oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., filed for divorce on Thursday afternoon in a Manhattan court.Ms. Trump, 40, is seeking an uncontested divorce to end her 12-year marriage with the president’s son. Mr. Trump, 40, the eldest of five children from President Trump’s three marriages, met his wife, a former model, when his father introduced them at a 2003 fashion show. They married in 2005 at Mar-a-Lago, the family’s club in Palm Beach, Fla. They have five children.“After 12 years of marriage, we have decided to go our separate ways,” the couple said in a joint statement. “We will always have tremendous respect for each other and our families. We have five beautiful children together and they remain our top priority. We ask for your privacy during this time.”The couple live in Midtown Manhattan during the week, and the family often spends weekends in the Catskills.AdvertisementMr. Trump and his brother Eric, 34, took over the management of the Trump Organization after their father was elected president. While his sister Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, moved to Washington and took senior jobs in the White House, Donald Trump Jr. chose to stay in New York after the election.AdvertisementHe has stayed in close contact with his father, often defending the Trump administration on Twitter and in interviews on Fox News, and he recently campaigned in Pennsylvania for the Republican candidate in a special election.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The White House special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is examining a June 2016 meeting Donald Trump Jr. had with Russians offering dirt on Hillary Clinton and the president’s role in providing a misleading response to The New York Times last summer for an article about the meeting.Last month, Vanessa Trump and her mother were hospitalized as a precaution after opening an envelope containing a white powdery substance that was later determined to be cornstarch, police officials said. A Massachusetts man was charged with sending the threatening letter. “No one should ever have to deal with this kind of sickening behavior,” Donald Trump Jr. said on Twitter about the episode.A onetime model with the Wilhelmina agency, Ms. Trump was raised on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and once dated the actor Leonardo DiCaprio. At the time of their engagement, Mr. Trump accepted a ring from the Bailey Banks & Biddle jewelry store in Short Hills, N.J., in exchange for publicity, recreating his proposal in a New Jersey mall.The two were married 10 months after Donald J. Trump married the former model Melania Knauss. In an interview last year with The Times, Donald Trump Jr. said a romantic evening with his wife included dinner at home (he likes to cook) and, perhaps, a movie. He tweeted about when his wife “took/dragged” him to see “Fifty Shades Darker.” (He didn’t love it.)Using her Twitter account with the handle @MrsVanessaTrump, Ms. Trump frequently retweeted her husband’s posts pertaining to family life, many of which include photographs of their weekends in the Catskills. But her tweets about him appeared to stop in June 2017. The last tweet referring to her husband was a family portrait in which she wished the president a happy birthday.Mr. Trump, who is active on Instagram, has posted mostly photos of him and his children in recent months. The last photograph with his wife was a photo of the family in February, when they were in Palm Beach celebrating a son’s birthday.The New York Post first reported the divorce filing on Thursday.Maggie Haberman and Laura M. Holson contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: President’s Oldest Son Faces Filing For Divorce.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MAGGIE HABERMAN and ADAM GOLDMANMARCH 5, 2018
WASHINGTON — It began with a subpoena. It ended with a question about whether its recipient was drunk on live television.Sam Nunberg, a onetime Trump campaign aide who recently met with investigators for the special counsel, set cable news alight on Monday when he declared that he was subpoenaed to go before a grand jury on Friday, but that he was unlikely to appear or to provide documents he was ordered to hand over.He indicated he did not know what the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was seeking by ordering him to appear before the grand jury and to turn over a number of documents. There was no way to authenticate the subpoena; Mr. Mueller’s office declined to comment.But Mr. Nunberg said he was unconcerned about the potential for being arrested. By midafternoon, he had been interviewed on MSNBC and CNN. Fox News soon joined in with coverage.If you didn’t know of Sam Nunberg, that likely changed after his onslaught of media appearances on Monday, when he said the special counsel had subpoenaed him.On air, Mr. Nunberg denigrated Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, as a “slob.” Twitter cataloged his insults, mesmerized by his repeat performances. One CNN host asked him if he had been drinking.AdvertisementBy evening, Mr. Nunberg told reporters he might comply with Mr. Mueller’s demand after all. Unless he doesn’t, of course.AdvertisementAnd so it went with Mr. Nunberg, a protégé of the self-described dirty trickster Roger J. Stone Jr., who has been a focus of aspects of the various investigations into possible Russian collusion with the Trump campaign.Part of the subpoena document, which Mr. Nunberg provided to The New York Times, is dated Feb. 27 and makes no mention of requiring him to appear before the grand jury. It calls only for him to preserve documents from Nov. 1, 2015, through the present related to several people connected to the Trump campaign. They include President Trump; the departing White House communications director, Hope Hicks; the former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski; Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s former chief strategist; Mr. Trump’s longtime bodyguard, Keith Schiller; the former Trump Organization lawyer Michael D. Cohen; and Mr. Stone, a longtime confidant of Mr. Trump’s.“They have requested a ridiculous amount of documents,” Mr. Nunberg said. “Should I spend 30 hours producing these? I don’t know what they have. They may very well have something on the president. But they are unfairly targeting Roger Stone.”The subpoena also demands any documents related to Carter Page, a former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser who was secretly surveilled by the Justice Department as part of the Russia investigation, as well as Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman, and his deputy, Rick Gates. Mr. Manafort has been indicted on a string of money laundering and fraud charges, and Mr. Gates recently pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with Mr. Mueller’s investigators.The list of people about whom Mr. Mueller is seeking information from Mr. Nunberg raises questions about his target, as does the time frame. Mr. Nunberg was fired by Mr. Trump during the summer of 2015 and thus was gone from the campaign in November. And he and Mr. Lewandowski are known to be combatants.Still, Mr. Nunberg — whose mentor, Mr. Stone, goes by the motto that all press is good press — spent hours on Monday engaged in a media tour with The Times, The Washington Post, CNN and MSNBC, describing his plans to flout the subpoena and professing his lack of concern about what could happen to him.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I was fired within six weeks” of the campaign’s start, Mr. Nunberg told The Times, despite having “saved” Mr. Trump during a fight with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, that summer after Mr. Trump’s remark that Mr. McCain was not a war hero because he was captured in Vietnam. Mr. McCain was shot down during the war and imprisoned for more than five years in Hanoi, refusing early release even after being beaten repeatedly.AdvertisementMr. Nunberg added that the president often sounded “like a moron, but this whole thing is a witch hunt.”Mr. Nunberg said he anticipated his lawyer, Patrick J. Brackley, would fire him for speaking publicly. Mr. Brackley did not immediately respond to an email asking whether that was the case.Mr. Nunberg could avoid appearing before the grand jury if his lawyer sent prosecutors a letter asserting his Fifth Amendment rights not to incriminate himself. If that does not happen, Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors could ask a judge for a bench warrant for Mr. Nunberg’s arrest.Mr. Nunberg has spoken with the Senate Intelligence Committee in its own investigation into Russian election meddling, according to a person familiar with the matter. He has not spoken with the House Intelligence Committee, according to three of its members. Its own examination of Moscow interference has languished amid partisan infighting.Mr. Stone, asked for comment, said he was not surprised that his information was being sought.“I was part of the Trump campaign, have been the president’s friend and adviser for decades, and would expect that Mueller’s team would ask for any documents or emails sent or written by me,” Mr. Stone said in a text message. “But let me reiterate, I have no knowledge or involvement in Russian collusion or any other inappropriate act.”Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 6, 2018, on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Ex-Trump Aide Says He’ll Refuse Grand Jury Order. Or Not.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MITCH SMITHAPRIL 4, 2018
EVELETH, Minn. — On northern Minnesota’s Iron Range, where evergreen trees stretch on for miles and snowpack lingers into the spring, a political shift is underway.Generations of residents have gone to work in the mines, endured cycles of booms and layoffs, and mostly voted for Democrats. But President Trump’s tariffs on imported steel are being celebrated as a boost to the local taconite mines, which supply American steel mills, and Republicans are hopeful that they can flip the area’s congressional seat in November.“President Trump is keeping his promises that he made on the campaign trail,” said Pete Stauber, a retired police officer and former professional hockey player who is running for Congress as a Republican. “He talked about leveling the playing field for the American worker. He did that with the tariffs.”Much has been said about groups who dislike the tariffs: a bipartisan mix of manufacturers,  farmers and politicians who warn of trade disputes and unforeseen consequences. China’s announcement on Wednesday of proposed tariffs on a range of American exports — including soybeans, chemicals and cars — heightened concern that a trade war could be looming.But in a few places where Republicans see openings to win seats and upend a national political forecast that seems to favor Democrats in November, the 25 percent tariff on foreign steel and the 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum are viewed as economic lifelines straight from the Oval Office.AdvertisementIn Southern Illinois, where a Republican congressman, Mike Bost, faces a tough re-election campaign, a steel mill that laid off hundreds is calling back workers. In Ohio, where the governorship and a Senate seat are on this year’s ballot, another steel mill could soon reopen. And in upper Minnesota, where iron ore pits — vast canyons of red-tinted dirt — shape the landscape, the tariffs could be a stabilizing force for towns still recovering from mine closings.Advertisement“It’s really strange,” said Mayor Bob Vlaisavljevich of Eveleth, a longtime Democrat who in recent years has changed his registration to Republican and decorated his City Hall office with a Trump bumper sticker. “A billionaire from New York is the one saving us.”Many in northern Minnesota still speak fondly about the Democrats in their own congressional delegation, and plenty have criticisms of the president’s Twitter habit and of Republican attitudes toward labor unions. But there is a broad sense that Mr. Trump has taken up the region’s cause right as the national Democratic Party is frustrating them with environmental regulations they see as unduly burdensome to miners and with calls for stricter limits on guns.“I feel they’ve kind of gone off the deep end,” said Lyn Pahlen, 53, an auto-parts store owner who lives in Chisholm, Minn., where a 36-foot-tall statue of an iron miner towers above the main highway.15 miles65169ChisholmEveleth37Keewatin5373minnesota2DuluthCANADA100 milesEighthCongressionalDistrictLakeSuperiorarea ofdetailN.D.S.D.WISCONSINMinneapolisMINNESOTAAPRIL 4, 2018
Ms. Pahlen, a former Democratic voter who supported Mr. Trump, said her business suffered a few years ago when an influx of foreign steel, much of it from China, led many of the local mines to temporarily shut down. With less money being spent around town, Ms. Pahlen cut some employees’ hours and laid off others. Ms. Pahlen said she was taking a wait-and-see approach.Conditions are better now. Mines began reopening in the final months of Barack Obama’s presidency, when he cracked down on steel dumping, and that growth has continued under Mr. Trump. The mines employ about 4,000 people in this sparsely populated region, according to the Iron Mining Association of Minnesota, and thousands of others work for mining industry vendors.“Things are coming around,” said Dan Pierce, who was out of work for about 15 months after a mine in Keewatin, Minn., shut down in 2015.Mr. Pierce, a Democrat and local union vice president, is no fan of Mr. Trump, and he was dismayed when the president temporarily exempted a few countries, including South Korea and Brazil, from the tariffs. Still, he said people were cautiously optimistic that the tariffs would have tangible benefits on the Iron Range.Advertisement“People are working overtime,” Mr. Pierce said. “People are spending money in the community.”Mr. Stauber, the Republican candidate for Congress who serves now as a county commissioner, is hoping to capitalize on some of that economic momentum as he runs in Minnesota’s Eighth District, which stretches more than 27,000 square miles from the Minneapolis exurbs through the Iron Range and up to the Canadian border.The district, which Mr. Trump won by 15.6 percentage points in 2016, according to DailyKos Elections, could be one of the Republicans’ best chances of flipping a Democratic seat in the House. Mr. Obama carried the district by 5.5 percentage points in 2012; he won by 8.6 percentage points four years earlier. Representative Rick Nolan, the incumbent Democrat, is retiring after narrowly winning re-election in 2016.Much is riding on November for both parties. Minnesota’s United States senators, Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith, both Democrats, are up for election, and the state’s Democratic governor, Mark Dayton, is retiring and leaving an open seat.Another congressional seat held by Democrats, the First District in the southern part of Minnesota, is also considered a tossup. Representative Tim Walz won a close race in 2016 and is running for governor this year instead of seeking another term in the House.Up on the Iron Range, Mr. Nolan supports the president’s tariffs and remains popular among miners. But he has faced pressure from some fellow Democrats who want stricter environmental regulations, as well as from right-leaning constituents disenchanted with his party. Democrats have not yet nominated a candidate to replace Mr. Nolan, 74, who said he was leaving office to spend more time with his family.Mr. Nolan said the president “connects in his messaging” on the Iron Range by focusing on economic anxiety. Democrats could improve their pitch to voters on that topic, Mr. Nolan said.“Miners who are sitting on the bench hoping to go back to work someday, and you have someone saying, ‘Hey, I care about you,’” Mr. Nolan said. “That means a lot to people.”AdvertisementIn the union halls and restaurants of northern Minnesota, the enthusiasm for the tariffs is tempered by decades of ups and downs, hiring sprees and layoffs. People often use phrases like “guarded optimism” and “stabilization.”Many longtime residents — and it seems most everyone is a longtime resident — recall their fathers struggling without a job in the bust of the 1980s, or a grandfather encountering hard times. They tell of a time when places like Eveleth, where the population of 3,700 is about half of its 1930 peak, had more businesses, more young families, more high school graduates staying home instead of moving to the cities, Minneapolis and St. Paul.Brian Zarn, 54, grew up nearby and has worked at the mine in Eveleth for about 29 years. He said it had been a rewarding career with a salary that supported his family, but also work pockmarked by layoffs and frustration with foreign steel being sold cheaply on American shores.“We’re cautiously optimistic, but we know the industry has got a lot of problems. China keeps overproducing,” said Mr. Zarn, a local union president, who was wearing a shirt that read, “STEELWORKERS Not Made In China.”“We hope that the tariffs are in there long-term,” he added. “But we’re realists, too. We look at the past.”A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Is ‘Saving Us’: Minnesota Miners Warm to Tariffs and G.O.P.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Gail CollinsDonald Trump may be going to Korea! Also, to Moon Township, Pa.!While the president’s plan to have direct talks with the North Koreans is fascinating, in a sort of unnerving way, right now we’re going to look at the Moon Township angle. There’s a special House election coming up on Tuesday, and it’s perfectly possible that when it comes to international détente versus the 18th Congressional District, the White House’s real fixation is western Pennsylvania.The 18th C.D. is at the heart of the white, working-class vote that won Trump the Electoral College. It also has wildly gerrymandered borders aimed at guaranteeing Republican control unless the incumbent does something incredible, like championing anti-abortion legislation after hinting to his mistress that she ought to get an abortion if she’s pregnant.Whoops. That was Representative Tim Murphy. Gone but not forgotten.So there’s this special election, which features Democrat Conor Lamb, a handsome young former federal prosecutor, versus Rick Saccone, a Republican state representative who is hanging onto Donald Trump like — um, we will not say Stormy Daniels. That would be totally tacky, and this is a serious political moment. We’ll just say that Saccone says he wants to go to Washington and be the president’s “wingman.”The current district is going to vanish in November when new, less-outrageous boundary lines go into effect. So the only thing that’s really at stake here is whether the voters are going to send an epic, albeit mainly symbolic, rejection letter to Trump. The president is obsessed. He’s scheduled to appear at a rally there this weekend, and he’s sending every possible White House warrior — from Kellyanne Conway to Donald Jr. — to the front lines.People, do you think Pennsylvanians are going to get out and vote in the middle of March because Donald Jr. asked them to? Just wondering.The 18th C.D. is very connected to steel making. (Democrat Lamb, when asked about trade issues, tends to say that he thinks whatever the president of the steelworkers’ union thinks.) Last week, as the race got tighter and tighter, Trump suddenly announced he was imposing a ginormous tariff on imported steel and aluminum, triggering the resignation of his chief economic adviser and something as close to a rebellion as you could imagine among the little weenies who make up the Republican members of Congress.Do you think it could possibly have all been for western Pennsylvania? Duh.The Republicans have been complaining that Saccone is a terrible candidate, which is a good way of getting off the hook themselves if he loses. It’s also sort of true. His ads are boring, and his previous social media was worse.“We’re here at The Hangar bar,” Saccone yells in a Facebook video from Moon Township itself. “Look at all the happy people here!” Actually, there seemed to be a goodly number of empty seats, even though Saccone was giving away free food (“ … we got pizzas, we got wings …”).In the state legislature, Saccone was a conservative who did not always behave like a guy who expected a congressional seat to open up in his backyard. He once voted against a bill strengthening Pennsylvania’s animal cruelty laws, which passed the House 167 to 20. It was called Libre’s Law in honor of a young Boston terrier abuse victim. Saccone never mentions Libre, although Lamb seems to bring that puppy up quite a bit.Lamb is selling himself as a bipartisan new-broom guy who would vote to get rid of Nancy Pelosi as Democratic House leader. (Coincidentally, he’s getting very little money from the official Democratic money stream, for which Pelosi is a tireless fund-raiser.)He’s driving right down the middle — pressing for stronger gun background checks while constantly mentioning that he’s a former Marine who “still loves to shoot.” One Lamb ad features him firing at a target with a semiautomatic rifle. Many Democrats attempt to get some gun cred by showing pictures of themselves at least pretending to be hunting, but when you’re chopping away with an AR-15 that’s serious business.Meanwhile Saccone, who started by attempting to pummel Lamb as an enemy of the Trump tax cuts, has pulled way back on that issue. If the race is an upset, or even very close, people are going to start re-evaluating the Republican theory that cutting taxes is a selling point so stupendous that it resembles a political Second Coming.Now instead, the Republican attack ads howl that as a prosecutor, Lamb made a plea bargain deal with a drug dealer.“People are laughing at you, Rick,” retorted Lamb in a debate, pointing out that the dealer in question went up the river for a decade and lost his two houses. “Ten years is a serious sentence.”He then demanded that the Republican say the ads were false.“Your ads are false,” retorted Saccone. It was that sort of encounter.Perhaps the most interesting moment came when Saccone dismissed Lamb as “someone who’s young and idealistic, who still hopes he can change the world.” Which may go down as the most depressing political attack in modern history.So … bottom line seems to be that it’s the idealist or the wingman. Guess who’s the Donald Trump candidate.I invite you to join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Samuel GoldmanFor American evangelicals, there is a term of praise for President Trump that falls like a question mark on most everyone else: “You are Cyrus.” That’s what the Christian pro-Israel activist Mike Evans promised to tell President Trump after his announcement that the United States would move its embassy to Jerusalem.Mr. Evans, who plastered Jerusalem with billboards praising the embassy decision, isn’t the only one to draw a connection to the ancient Persian king. In a 2016 book called “God’s Chaos Candidate,” the minister Lance Wallnau asked, “Could Trump be God’s Cyrus?”Even some Jews have gotten into the act. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu made the connection in a speech to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee this week, predicting the rise of a new Cyrus. Last week, the Mikdash Educational Center, an Orthodox group, produced a “temple coin” that superimposes an image of Mr. Trump over one of Cyrus.Obscure though it may seem, pro-Israel activists who suggest that Mr. Trump is a counterpart to Cyrus are drawing on a deep well of religious history that nourishes his current evangelical support. For centuries, American Christians have argued that United States foreign policy should follow biblical models. The desire to see America and its leaders as instruments for the fulfillment of divine intentions remains an important cause of their longstanding sympathy for Zionism and the State of Israel.King Cyrus, who is credited with allowing Jews to return to Jerusalem from exile in the Babylonian empire, represents the possibility that a nonbelieving leader and state could be used by God to reunite the chosen people and the promised land.The prominence of the Cyrus trope has revived fears about religious influences on United States foreign policy that have swirled around Republican presidents for decades. Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush were both accused of allowing their policies toward Israel to be influenced by interpretations of the Book of Revelation that foresee a literal Battle of Armageddon.And encouraging presidents to take up the mantle of Cyrus is also something of an American tradition. The Chicago-based preacher William Eugene Blackstone — who described himself as God’s “errand boy” — visited the White House in 1891 to present President Benjamin Harrison with a petition. It called on him to use his influence to extract Palestine from the Ottoman Empire and promote a Jewish state. The petition was signed by 413 prominent citizens, including the Supreme Court’s chief justice, Melville Fuller; the future president William McKinley; and the tycoons J. P. Morgan and John D. Rockefeller. Its cover letter explicitly compared the president to Cyrus, offering him a “privileged opportunity” to serve as patron of the Jewish people. For this service, five years before the publication of Theodor Herzl’s “Der Judenstaat,” Louis Brandeis reportedly described Blackstone as the real “father of Zionism.”Harrison was not even the first president to be imagined as a potential successor to Cyrus. In the 1790s, the New Jersey minister David Austin suggested that the United States under John Adams might help assist the world’s Jews in returning to Palestine. Austin went so far as to purchase ships and warehouses that could be used for this purpose.Austin’s practical efforts for the cause were unusual. But a fellow resident of Elizabeth, N.J., Elias Boudinot, an aide to George Washington who served as president of the Continental Congress, director of the United States Mint and other important posts, wrote several books urging the new republic to act as patron to the Jews and assist in their return to the territory God promised to Abraham. In a book published in 1816, Boudinot wrote, “Who knows but God has raised up these United States, in these latter days, for the very purpose of accomplishing his will in bringing his beloved people to their own land.”Why have American Christians been so interested in the fate of the Jews, even decades before the foundation of the international Zionist movement? One reason is that they were members of a society steeped in the Bible. Many historians emphasize the importance of republican sources like Cicero and Livy to the American political tradition. The problem with this argument is that relatively few Americans could read Latin or were familiar with Roman history. Unlike the classics of republican thought, the Bible was universally available and familiar even to those unable to read English. As such, it provided a shared idiom for thinking through matters of public concern.The availability and familiarity of Scripture made biblical analogies expedient. But the deeper reason the Cyrus model has particularly appealed to Americans is that it placed the United States and its colonial predecessors in what might be called “sacred history” — the Bible’s sweeping story of the creation, corruption and redemption. Since the Puritans, many Americans have wanted to believe that their own endeavors were part of that story. They faced a problem, though: The Bible revolves around the nation of Israel, makes no mention of the New World. By describing their experiences in terms of its central nations, places and figures, Americans have been able to see themselves as participants in the Biblical drama. Some Americans believed that they were themselves a replacement for the biblical Israel, but others contended that they were more accurately compared to Cyrus.In a political culture formed by the Bible, it has often seemed natural to support a reunion of the people and land that many Americans saw as the model for their own history. Far from representing a weird deviation from norms, evangelicals who see Mr. Trump as a successor to an ancient Persian king are participants in an old American tradition. When, in 1953, former president Harry Truman was introduced as the man who help establish the State of Israel, he grumbled: “What do you mean, ‘helped create’? I am Cyrus!”Samuel Goldman is an assistant professor of political science and director of the Loeb Institute for Religious Freedom at the George Washington University and the author of “God’s Country: Christian Zionism in America.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy JAMES PONIEWOZIKMARCH 26, 2018
“I don’t think anyone’s ever spoken to him like that.”Stephanie Clifford was talking, on “60 Minutes,” about her alleged sexual encounter with Donald J. Trump in 2006. Specifically, the pornographic film actress and director, who goes by the name Stormy Daniels, was describing the moment when she suggested spanking Mr. Trump with a magazine that had his picture on the cover. (According to her, he acquiesced.)But she could just as well have been describing the way she has told her story (which representatives for President Trump have denied). None of Mr. Trump’s many media antagonists have taken him on in quite this way, on his own terms, using some of the same tactics he did as a celebrity, candidate and president.Others have come at Mr. Trump with indignation, righteousness and appeals to decency. Ms. Clifford swatted Mr. Trump with a rolled-up network newsmagazine.Speaking to Anderson Cooper, Ms. Daniels was direct and conversational. She had playful one-liners. (“You didn’t even buy me breakfast,” she told Mr. Cooper.) She told a story. (Describing how she said Mr. Trump awaited her on the edge of a hotel bed — “perched” — she mimed his sitting position and bearing.)AdvertisementBut most important — most, dare I say it, Trumpian — she was unapologetic.There’s a familiar script for discrediting women who accuse powerful men. They’re attacked as opportunistic and promiscuous, out to make a buck. If they deny any of that, it still ends up making the moral conversation about them.AdvertisementMs. Clifford owned her story and her life. Yes, she’s stripped and had sex on camera for a living, a “legitimate — and legal, I’d like to point out — career.” Yes, she’s gotten job offers from her publicity: “Tell me one person who would turn down a job offer making more than they’ve been making.”That should sound familiar. Running for president, Mr. Trump jiu-jitsued facts that would have ended other candidacies into selling points. Did he give money to candidates he later attacked? That meant he knew how to work the system, and thus could fix it. Did he avoid paying income taxes? “That makes me smart.”His brazenness was the brazenness of reality TV, the argument of a finalist in a “Survivor” tribal council who tells the jury to hate the game, not the player.Just so, Ms. Clifford has used unshamability and quick-draw ripostes as a force field. When a critic on Twitter told her that “dumb whores go to hell,” she shot back, “Glad I’m a smart one.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Clifford’s story had plenty of tidbits, salacious (her statement that Mr. Trump did not use a condom), bizarre (her recounting of watching an entire “Shark Week” documentary with him) and disturbing (her charge that a man threatened her, in front of her infant daughter, if she spoke about Mr. Trump). But running through it was a theme: I know who I am, and that’s exactly why you should believe me.Mr. Cooper made the case that the story was worth covering, at double length, on CBS’s flagship newsmagazine. He recognized the story was about sex, asking for details up front and pressing Ms. Clifford on her motives — whether she might get a book deal, for instance. But he moved on to look, at some length, at the possibility that a $130,000 payment for Ms. Clifford’s silence might be an illegal campaign contribution.Even more, as the subject turned to threats, payoffs and nondisclosure agreements, the interview became about power, the ability of wealthy men to pay, pressure or coerce women into silence. (The alleged parking lot encounter aside, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have openly threatened Ms. Clifford with financial ruin.) It’s about who gets to decide when their stories get told and under what terms.Ms. Clifford made a point of emphasizing that she was “not a victim” in having sex with Mr. Trump, even though she described an encounter she was, at best, unenthusiastic about. “You put yourself in a bad situation and bad things happen, so you deserve this,” she said.AdvertisementA few days earlier, Mr. Cooper sat down on CNN with Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model who says she had an extended affair with Mr. Trump at around the same time as Ms. Clifford. Ms. McDougal described having been in love with Mr. Trump, then guilty and apologetic for having a relationship with a married man with a newborn child.Ms. Clifford, on the other hand, represented herself as having no illusions about herself or Mr. Trump. Asked if she thought he had offered her a role on “The Apprentice” to keep her romantically interested, she said, “Of course. I’m not blind.”To paraphrase one of Mr. Trump’s campaign lines, she was saying that she knew he was a snake when he took her in. With this admission, she implicitly told the audience: Look, we’re all adults here. We know how these things work.As an argument, that was 100 percent Trump. Mr. Trump did not put Ms. Clifford on his TV show. But she did make it on TV, where she proved an adept apprentice in his media techniques. Maybe even a master.A version of this review appears in print on March 27, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Stormy Daniels  Out-Trumps Trump.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Patrick ChappattePresident Trump signed executive orders imposing sweeping tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. He did so in defiance of fellow Republicans.Patrick Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist for The New York Times. View more of his work, visit his website or follow him on Twitter.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.OpinionPaul KrugmanOpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Norman J. OrnsteinEver since the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., law enforcement and other officials have been calling for changes in the Baker Act, a Florida law that allows involuntary commitment for 72 hours of people who are an imminent danger to themselves or others. If the Baker Act had been easier to deploy, they think, Nikolas Cruz, the accused shooter, would have been taken and treated before his horrible act.However this law may be reformed, it will never be able to get people with serious mental illness the treatment they need.I know something about the Baker Act. About halfway through my son Matthew’s decade-long struggle with serious mental illness, my wife and I invoked the Baker Act against him.This kind, brilliant, thoughtful young man, who experienced the sudden onset of mental illness at age 24, was living in a small condominium we owned near Sarasota, Fla. One day the manager called us with alarming allegations about his behavior and insisted that Matthew was in immediate danger.In a panic, we flew to Sarasota, went to the courthouse and filled out the forms to invoke the Baker Act. It was surprisingly easy.When we got to the condo, Matthew was already gone.We later learned what had happened next. He had just emerged from the shower when police officers cuffed him — without letting him dress or pick up his cellphone, or even explaining what was happening. He was transported to a county mental health facility.We followed, desperate to see our son. But the staff members wouldn’t let us in. In fact, they said privacy rules meant that they could not even confirm that he was there.Worst of all, we found out we had been duped. The condo manager who had called us had concocted the story as a pretext to get our son off the property. Because Matthew had long hair and a beard, smoked and tended to wander on the beach at 3 a.m., the manager thought he might scare away those renting other units — and he just wanted Matthew out.The Baker Act allows 72 hours of involuntary observation to see whether someone is in fact an imminent danger to himself or others. Matthew was not, and after three awful days, he was put in a taxi and sent home. We were not informed when he was released.Our relationship with our son was deeply damaged by this incident, making any further efforts by us to help him infinitely more difficult. It did nothing to help him deal with his condition and only increased his sense of being stigmatized and hounded. He moved out of Florida and died in an accident at age 34.That episode, and our 10-year journey, taught us that the entire mental health system is broken.First, the standard of “imminent danger to oneself or others,” which is sufficient to order a short period of involuntary commitment in many states, is ludicrous and often counterproductive. It results both in mistakes like ours and in worse problems at the other end of the spectrum, when it requires the release of individuals who are truly dangerous but who don’t meet the “imminent” standard.Even if an individual is confirmed to be dangerous, the Baker Act allows him or her to be held for 90 days; a judicial hearing can then extend the commitment by another 90 days — far from enough time to provide any meaningful or sustained treatment.Second, a system that keeps loved ones from any involvement in the treatment of people with serious mental illness, especially those who do not know or believe they are ill, is cruel and ineffective.Finally, a vast majority of those with serious mental illness are not dangerous. We need a way to treat them, while also recognizing that failure to treat the small share who might be violent can lead to tragedies like suicide and murder.The Baker Act is not going to solve these problems. We have far too few beds in mental health facilities, so most people who have a serious illness and are picked up for offenses like vagrancy from homelessness or drug possession (many people with mental illness self-medicate with drugs) end up in jails, where they lack treatment and almost invariably deteriorate.Common-sense reforms, like ending a foolish Medicaid restriction that cuts off money for some larger mental health facilities, would help. But what is really required is a comprehensive treatment framework and the money to pay for it.Ironically, a model exists near Parkland. Steve Leifman, a judge in Miami-Dade County, created a system in which those with serious mental illness who are charged with misdemeanors or nonviolent felonies are given a choice of going to trial or accepting an outpatient treatment plan, with a place to live and care from medical professionals and counselors. He has also provided crisis intervention and sensitivity training to police officers. Instead of languishing in jail, many of the beneficiaries are now getting good jobs and participating productively in their community. He has saved lives — and money.States should use this as a model for all outpatient treatment, not just for those who enter the criminal justice system. There must be safeguards to protect people’s civil liberties, but families and mental health professionals should be able to petition a court to order someone to accept a comprehensive treatment plan if that person has gone untreated and is unaware that he or she has a serious mental illness and would otherwise be homeless, cycling in and out of jail or worse.Instead, we are taking tiny steps forward, and giant steps back. Gov. Rick Scott of Florida has proposed spending $450 million to station guards in every school, with more funding for bulletproof windows, steel doors and so on, while adding a paltry $50 million for mental health care. Even as President Trump calls for bringing back “mental institutions,” his budget slashes Medicaid. Many Republicans in the meantime are demanding drug testing and work requirements for Medicaid recipients, which would cause many mentally ill people to lose their coverage — meaning no treatment and no housing.To reduce the incidence of mass murders — and suicides — we have to reform the gun laws. Clearly, people with serious mental illness should not be able to own guns (and no civilians should be able to buy weapons of war like AR-15s). The background-check system is a farce. States need to adopt “red-flag” laws, which allow police officers and family members to petition a court to bar dangerous individuals from possessing guns.But until we devote the needed resources to making the mental health system work, we will continue to have unnecessary tragedies. Locking people up for three days is no solution.Norman J. Ornstein is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and a co-author of “One Nation After Trump: A Guide for the Perplexed, the Disillusioned, the Desperate and the Not-Yet-Deported.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionNorman J. OrnsteinAdvertisementBy THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINEMARCH 28, 2018
Behind the Cover Jake Silverstein, editor in chief: “Defense Secretary Jim Mattis declined to sit for a formal portrait, so Mark Peterson followed him around and tried to get a cover-worthy shot during public appearances. We thought this one admirably captured some of the militaristic themes of Robert F. Worth’s story, as well as the sense of foreboding.”Read the cover story “Can Jim Mattis Hold the Line in Trump’s ‘War Cabinet’?” See all past covers here.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MEGAN SPECIA and RICK GLADSTONEMARCH 10, 2018
Kennedy would chide himself afterward for not doing his homework on Khrushchev. Nixon was unsure if he would even meet Mao despite months of quiet planning. And George W. Bush made what in hindsight was a classic first-impression misread of Vladimir V. Putin.President Trump’s abrupt decision last week to agree to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong-un within two months is a stunning change, after almost seven decades of hostility between two countries that never formally ended the 1950-53 Korean War.But Mr. Trump will not be the first modern-day American president to come face-to-face with the leader of an adversary, and those encounters have a mixed record. Here are some examples:It was a crucial moment in the Cold War when President John F. Kennedy met Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet leader, for informal talks to improve relations between two increasingly polarized nations.The one and only summit meeting between the two did not have the outcome the president might have wanted, in part because Kennedy was ill-prepared, he later revealed to a journalist.AdvertisementThere were no clear strategic goals for the meeting, something that historians say contributed to the nebulous result. The two leaders bickered over which country had spent more time manipulating elections, according to historical accounts of the meeting, and they argued over the merits of capitalism and communism.Advertisement“I never met a man like this,” Kennedy told Hugh Sidey of Time magazine. Kennedy said he “talked about how a nuclear exchange would kill 70 million people in 10 minutes, and he just looked at me as if to say, ‘So what?’”Khrushchev told Kennedy it would be up to the United States to decide if there would be war or peace between the two nations.“Then, Mr. Chairman,” Kennedy responded, “there will be war. It will be a cold winter.”Relations quickly grew more hostile. The Berlin Wall was erected a few months later, dividing the city between communist East and capitalist West. James Reston of The New York Times wrote in his memoir, “Deadline,” that the president came out of the meeting determined to show toughness.“And the place to do it, he remarked to my astonishment, was Vietnam!” Mr. Reston recalled.President Richard M. Nixon’s weeklong visit to China was the pivotal event that ended the Cold War hostility between China and the United States. It looked like a contradiction at the time: the American politician who had risen to fame as a virulent anti-communist was venturing into the world’s most populous communist country. But as Nixon himself had conceded years earlier, “We simply cannot afford to leave China outside the family of nations.”As he departed Washington for Beijing, Nixon was not even sure he would meet the Chinese leader, Mao Zedong.But it was not a spur-of-the-moment trip. On the contrary, it had taken months of secret discussions, which began in April 1971 when the United States table-tennis team arrived in China.In what became known as Ping-Pong diplomacy, the team’s groundbreaking visit led to a clandestine trip to China by Henry A. Kissinger, Nixon’s national security adviser, that laid the groundwork for Nixon’s arrival. Premier Zhou Enlai of China said, “Never before in history has a sport been used so effectively as a tool of international diplomacy.”AdvertisementThe Cold War-era meeting between President Ronald Reagan and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, then secretary general of the Soviet Communist Party, was the first time in six years that leaders of the two nuclear superpowers had come face to face.“We met, as we had to meet,” Mr. Reagan said upon his return to Washington. “I had called for a fresh start and we made that start. I can’t claim we had a meeting of the minds on such fundamentals as ideology or national purpose — but we understand each other better. That’s the key to peace.”Little substantive decision-making came from the summit meeting, but both said they would use it to jump-start greater cooperation.The next time the pair met, in Reykjavik, Iceland, in October 1986, the outcome was less positive. They failed to come to an agreement on arms control after Gorbachev insisted the talks include regulating America’s Strategic Defense Initiative — the so-called Star Wars antimissile defense system — a project Mr. Reagan had embraced. Talks between the two countries would not resume for more than a year.President George W. Bush, meeting Vladimir V. Putin for the first time during a June 2001 summit meeting in Slovenia, offered a surprising public display of warmth toward the Russian leader, just six months into Mr. Bush’s first term.Confounding aides who warned that Russia respected only toughness, Mr. Bush told reporters at a news conference with Mr. Putin: “I looked the man in the eye. I found him to be very straightforward and trustworthy. We had a very good dialogue. I was able to get a sense of his soul.”The effusive praise would later be interpreted as a sign of naïveté about Mr. Putin, the former K.G.B. spy who has come to be seen as a vexing adversary of the United States.President Barack Obama and Cuba’s Raúl Castro met in Panama in 2015, ending a half-century in which leaders of the two countries had not come face to face.AdvertisementThe meeting on the sidelines of the Summit of the Americas was part of a push by Mr. Obama to normalize diplomatic relations with Cuba after generations of hostility.“Our governments will continue to have differences,” Mr. Obama said at a news conference. “At the same time, we agreed that we can continue to take steps forward that advance our mutual interests.”Mr. Castro praised Mr. Obama’s “humble” background and said he had read his books.Mr. Castro’s older brother Fidel, the iconic revolutionary who took power in 1959, never met with any sitting American president while he was Cuba’s leader. When Castro visited the United States shortly after the revolution, President Dwight D. Eisenhower made a point of going to the golf course. Castro wound up meeting instead with Nixon, who was then the vice president.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:Re “Loans Flowed to Kushner Cos. After Visits to the White House” (front page, March 1):I can imagine some of President Trump’s supporters saying: “What is the big deal with foreign leaders trying to influence Jared Kushner? So he has a successful business. So what? It is a win-win for everyone.”It is a measure of the degree that common sense has been eroded that a deep concern about foreign influence in the Oval Office is not more intense and bipartisan.It is as though there is no understanding of the genuinely catastrophic results that can flow from foreign influence in the White House. It raises the question as to what is the difference between the nature and extent of Mr. Kushner’s dealings and the business dealings of his father-in-law.JOE GROSSMAN, BOULDER, COLO.AdvertisementBy ERICA L. GREENMARCH 20, 2018
WASHINGTON — Education Secretary Betsy DeVos will go before a House panel on Tuesday to defend her agency’s budget, including a sweeping overhaul of the Education Department that has strained relations within her agency and with Congress — and defies the White House’s budget office.In recent weeks, Ms. DeVos has clashed fiercely with department staff members over the plan, which they say she tried to withhold from Congress as she imposed on the department what they call an illegal collective bargaining agreement.Ms. DeVos will testify before the House Appropriations Committee, whose staff was told a week ago that her office had withheld vital information from it regarding the department’s budget for the fiscal year that begins in October. The budget request calls for a 5 percent spending cut, eliminates dozens of programs and pitches a $1 billion school choice proposal. It also includes a shake-up of several divisions that is already underway.A career department official unveiled details of Ms. DeVos’s “Education Reform Plan” in an email to staff members on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees. The email, obtained by The Times, said information driving budget decisions was omitted from budget justifications submitted to Congress.Advertisement“Our concern is about a breakdown in communication, a culture of secrecy and a fear of retaliatory action that has prevented Budget Service from providing House and Senate appropriators and staff, and for that matter, the public, with key information about the department’s plans for fiscal year 2019,” the email said. “Given the potential for some of these proposals to radically impact the way the department carries out its mission, Congress should probably see this.”AdvertisementAmong the proposals outlined in the 56-page plan, obtained by The Times, was the consolidation of a number of administrative offices, cutting the number of regional offices in the Office for Civil Rights and acquiring several programs run by the Department of Labor.Department officials said they have since abandoned the civil rights proposals, which were sure to be the most controversial part of the plan. They said the plan remained in flux. It was created last fall to comply with President Trump’s executive order to curb the reach of federal agencies and cut duplication and inefficiency.Liz Hill, the Education Department spokeswoman, said that it was “absolutely not true” that the department intentionally withheld details from Congress, and that “no final determinations have been made and therefore there is nothing to present.”“The deliberative reorganization document is just that — a deliberative document not in final form,” she said. “We are following normal protocols for department reorganization.”Though the plan presents a long-term vision, through 2022, some of its contents were presented in a 14-page presentation to employees in February shortly after the department’s budget requests were released. And last week, the department announced it would reassign its budget director, the first move toward disbanding the budget office. The decision was made over the opposition of the White House’s Office of Management and Budget, according to Politico. Several other staff changes were announced for 2019.Some department employees denounced the move as an effort to dismantle an agency that would provide a critical check on the department’s overhaul plans, but other experts said it made sense.“Budget offices, because they have so much power and institutional knowledge, can be seen as obstacles by reform-minded government leaders,” said Andy Smarick, a fellow at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. “Many new government officials think they’ll only have to fight policy battles, when in fact there are lots of ways, including in the budget process, for their efforts to get scuttled.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The plan aligns with measures Ms. DeVos has taken to shrink her agency, which she has described as bloated. She has shed hundreds of regulations, and hundreds of staff through attrition and buyouts.AdvertisementFor the most part, Ms. DeVos’s restructuring plan involves consolidating offices, such as merging the office that oversees charter and private schools with the main office that oversees elementary and secondary education in public schools. The plan would eliminate the Office of the Under Secretary, a position that has helped shape higher education policy, and create a new Office of Lifelong Learning. It would also reduce the number of political appointees.The proposal also seeks to acquire several programs run by the Department of Labor. The department proposed to take over adult and unemployed worker programs run by the Labor Department, and to redirect the funding for those programs to federal Pell grants so that unemployed workers can enroll in higher education and vocational programs. The department would acquire an “out-of-school youth” program from the Labor Department, as well as a program that helps reintegrate ex-prisoners.Details of the plan surfaced amid a bitter contract dispute between the DeVos administration and the union that represents the department’s 3,900 employees. Union leaders believe the contract gutted all protections that would allow its members to defend themselves in the department’s overhaul.Most notably, the contract cuts down the use of “official time,” which employees could use to do union activities, a benefit Congress extended 40 years ago, and instead requires that representatives take unpaid leave for such activities with permission from their supervisors.The goal of the collective bargaining agreement, Ms. Hill said, “is to treat all employees and the American taxpayers fairly.”Union officials say the agreement also stripped out previously negotiated provisions for pay increases and promotions, performance evaluations, work schedules, child care and overtime. It also limits the issues that can be brought up as a grievance and eliminates a guarantee against retaliation for filing one.“This agency contends that their mission is so very important, but how can it be when they’re creating a hostile work environment, where employees are coming and going and worried about what’s going to happen to them on a daily basis?” said Sharon Harris, executive vice president of the American Federation of Government Employees Council 252, which represents Education Department employees.The union said the agreement came “after months of anti-union proposals and hostile behavior at the table,” which concluded with the department’s bargaining team effectively walking away from negotiations before they even started.The department said the union failed to negotiate in good faith, ignoring multiple invitations to resolve the impasse and blowing multiple deadlines to submit counteroffers. The department imposed its final offer.AdvertisementThe fight speaks to a larger theme at the department, the employee wrote to congressional staffers.“Things have gotten pretty awful here,” said the email from the Education Department official, which noted that the department would start requiring screening of all communication with Congress. “And at this point, employees are willing to accept whatever fallout comes with exercising a right to make sure Congress gets information it needs. Employees are tired of seeing their colleagues deputized into misleading Congress.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By SHEILA KAPLANMARCH 17, 2018
One of the nation’s leading AIDS researchers and an expert in the treatment of heroin addiction is the leading candidate to oversee the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.A formal announcement about the candidate, Dr. Robert R. Redfield, could come as early as Tuesday, once the vetting has been finished, said an administration official with knowledge of the appointment, who was not authorized to speak publicly.The review process is likely to be thorough. President Trump’s first C.D.C. director, Dr. Brenda Fitzgerald, resigned in January after about six months amid reports that she held investments in tobacco and health care companies that posed potential conflicts of interest.A professor at the University of Maryland School of Medicine, Dr. Redfield founded the Institute of Human Virology along with Dr. Robert C. Gallo, who developed the blood test for the human immunodeficiency virus.AdvertisementBest known for his years as an AIDS researcher, Dr. Redfield, 66, oversees an extensive program providing H.I.V. care and treatment to more than 6,000 patients in the Baltimore-Washington area, according to the university’s website. The institute has received more than $138 million in C.D.C. grants to combat H.I.V./AIDS and other health issues in Kenya, Nigeria, Tanzania and Zambia.AdvertisementHe also has years of experience treating heroin addicts, who account for as many as half of the H.I.V. and AIDS patients the institute treats. And he has been a longtime proponent of medical assisted treatment for addiction.“I think he’s a superb candidate, first rate,” said Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, a Democrat and a former lieutenant governor of Maryland.Ms. Townsend, who got to know Dr. Redfield while serving on the board of the Institute of Human Virology, said his background in infectious diseases and the opioid epidemic made him the right person for the job. “Ebola could come up next year, either naturally or in an attack,” she said. “We have to be prepared, and he understands that.”She said Dr. Redfield once proposed that every hospital spend at least 10 percent of its budget to treat addiction.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Dr. Redfield’s career has not been without controversy. As an early AIDS researcher, he proposed mandatory testing, a prospect that was opposed by many liberals and gay activists.A graduate of Georgetown University and Georgetown University School of Medicine, Dr. Redfield did his residency in internal medicine at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. He is a member of the Presidential Advisory Council on H.I.V./AIDS and recently finished terms on advisory boards for the National Institutes of Health.Dr. Redfield is a practicing Catholic, whose faith plays a large role in his life, according to friends and family. He is married to a nurse, Joy, whom he met while delivering babies.The couple have six children and nine grandchildren.Dr. Fitzgerald was appointed by Tom Price, a fellow Georgian who served as President Trump’s first secretary of Health and Human Services. Mr. Price resigned in September under criticism for traveling extensively on private jets and billing the government more than $400,000 for the trips. Dr. Anne Schuchat has been acting director.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: AIDS Researcher at University of Maryland Is Being Vetted to Be Next Leader of C.D.C.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
MARCH 12, 2018

The pornographic film actress Stephanie Clifford, who is known professionally as Stormy Daniels and says she had an affair with Donald J. Trump before he was president, offered on Monday to return $130,000 she got from Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer if she can break her silence about the alleged relationship.
Related Article
Advertisement
The Daily By                     
 MICHAEL BARBARO
 
MARCH 22, 2018
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherFive days after details about Cambridge Analytica were made public, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, spoke with The New York Times.Five days after details about Cambridge Analytica were made public, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, broke his silence on his company’s role in the data breach.Minutes after posting a statement on Facebook, he spoke with The New York Times.On today’s episode:• Kevin Roose, a business columnist for The Times.Background reading:• Facebook, in crisis over the Cambridge Analytica data breach, vows to bolster security and privacy.Advertisement• A transcript of Mr. Zuckerberg’s conversation with Mr. Roose and another Times reporter, Sheera Frenkel.AdvertisementTune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Kevin Roose contributed reporting.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah and Clare Toeniskoetter, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By JIM TANKERSLEY and ALAN RAPPEPORTMARCH 11, 2018
WASHINGTON — The legislative blitz that rocketed the $1.5 trillion tax cut through Congress in less than two months created a host of errors and ambiguities in the law that businesses big and small are just now discovering and scrambling to address.Companies and trade groups are pushing the Treasury Department and Congress to fix the law’s consequences, some intended and some not, including provisions that disadvantage certain farmers, hurt restaurateurs and retailers and could balloon the tax bills of large multinational corporations.While Treasury can clear up uncertainty about some of the murky provisions, actual errors and unintended language can be solved only legislatively — at a time when Democrats seem disinclined to lend votes to shoring up a law they had no hand in passing and are actively trying to dismantle.On Thursday, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce released a 15-page request it had sent the Treasury Department for clarification on how the law affects multinational corporations, mutual fund investors and mom-and-pop pass-through entities.AdvertisementIt was a public display of the lobbying that businesses are waging primarily behind the scenes to change or shape enforcement of the law, most notably its byzantine new provisions intended to crack down on multinationals sheltering profits abroad for tax purposes.Advertisement“The question is whether our system is set up today in a way to do little midcourse corrections as time goes on, or is it not,” said Dana Trier, who left the Treasury Department last month after serving as deputy assistant secretary for tax policy during the drafting of the bill. “The mistakes or unintended consequences for this or that group won’t show up for months.”The result could be a tax-theme replay of the years after passage of the Affordable Care Act, when Republicans refused to cooperate with so-called technical corrections legislation, and a Democratic administration was forced to push the limits of its authority to address concerns in the enforcement of its signature policy accomplishment.Among the problematic portions to emerge so far is what has become known as the “grain glitch.” A late change to the legislation altered a deduction for United States production in a way that permitted farmers to deduct 20 percent of their total sales to cooperatives — agricultural organizations owned by groups of farmers that operate for the benefit of their members.This allows farmers to deeply reduce their tax bills, but it has caused an uproar among independent agriculture businesses that say they can no longer compete with cooperatives, since farmers would choose to sell to cooperatives to take advantage of the more generous tax break.The conservative Tax Foundation said that the flaw should be addressed quickly, saying that, if left in place, “the deduction would allow some farmers to effectively become tax-exempt.”Leaders of independent grain companies from Oklahoma, Minnesota and South Dakota traveled to Washington in late February to make their case to lawmakers that a fix was urgently needed, warning that businesses like theirs could collapse or be sold.“We will be much more receptive to selling our business if this happens,” said Todd Lafferty, co-chief executive of Wheeler Brothers Grain Company in Watonga, Okla. “It’s going to result in further consolidation of the industry, but that’s not what we want to do.”Mr. Lafferty, a Republican, said he was excited about the new tax legislation until he heard about the provision. Despite the other benefits of the law, he said, he would rather be governed by the old tax code than face a competitive disadvantage to nearby cooperatives.AdvertisementThomas Lien Jr., of Dakota Mill and Grain in Rapid City, S.D., said that he already regretted the $20 million investment his business made last year to build a shuttle loader grain elevator for moving large quantities of grain because farmers were now only interested in selling to cooperatives. Now he wondered how his business and others like it could survive.“It’s going to drive investments in rural America away,” Mr. Lien said. “We can’t compete.”Restaurants and retailers are also concerned about a drafting error that will mitigate the tax benefits they receive when renovating. The law was supposed to simplify depreciation rules for businesses making renovations or other property improvements so that they could deduct these expenses over 15 years. Because of a mistake in the writing of the bill, the cost of these investments must be deducted over 39 years, diminishing the intended benefit.The top lobbyist for the restaurant industry said that she was hopeful that lawmakers had heard their complaints.“It is our understanding that it was an honest mistake,” said the lobbyist, Cicely Simpson, the executive vice president of public affairs at the National Restaurant Association. “The bipartisan intent behind the law was a 15-year depreciation period, and we are confident Congress will have this resolved quickly.”But legislative fixes will be tough. Unlike the original tax bill, which passed along party lines, legislation correcting any portion of the tax bill will require Democratic votes to get through the Senate.The law passed Congress via the budget reconciliation process, which bypassed a Senate filibuster and enabled Republicans to approve it on a party-line vote in both chambers. A fix-it bill would need at least nine Democrats in the Senate to join Republicans.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For now, at least, Democratic leaders appear disinclined to provide those votes. They are still fuming over the partisan process that delivered the bill to President Trump’s desk.Advertisement“I’m willing to make technical changes, but they have to be substantive, too,” said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio and a member of the Finance Committee. “We’re not just going to sit down and fix the things they did badly because they did it in the dead of night with lobbyists at the table.”A second, much larger group of issues are those that need Treasury clarification — areas of the law that companies say could be construed in any number of ways, with vastly differing consequences for tax liabilities.That includes questions over which businesses, and what types of business income, qualify for a new 20 percent deduction for so-called pass-through entities, whose owners pay taxes on the companies’ profits through the individual code. For example, the Chamber of Commerce is pushing to ensure the deduction applies to investors in mutual funds that own stakes in real estate investment trusts.It also includes a dizzying number of concerns over the new system for taxing multinational corporations that the law created.Those corporations are upset over the possible scope of two provisions that collectively form a sort of alternative minimum tax for companies operating in the United States and overseas. The bill’s architects pitched those provisions as a means of cracking down on companies that shift profits to foreign parent companies or subsidiaries to avoid American taxes.But affected companies say they fear the legislation could be construed overly broadly by officials at Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service, subjecting activities that those companies do not consider forms of profit-shifting to the minimum tax.A Chevron executive called one of the minimum tax provisions “a disaster” last month at a public forum. At the same event, an Eli Lilly official said the provisions discouraged companies from holding intellectual property in the United States, counter to the intent of Congress, because they forced those companies to reimburse foreign affiliates doing work outside the country.Many companies are looking to Treasury to resolve those concerns. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s list of requests includes several suggestions for ways the department can limit the minimum tax’s reach.AdvertisementRepublican lawmakers who wrote the bill, however, are not looking kindly on efforts to change the intent of the law. Their staff members say they have asked businesses to make a data-based case for why their proposals are necessary.“I stress the importance of carrying out legislative intent,” Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and the chairman of the Finance Committee, wrote in a letter last month to Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. The intent, he added, was to remove “damaging tax-base erosion found in the former tax system” — a reference to eroding the tax base of the United States by shifting corporate profits abroad.Rohit Kumar, a former Senate leadership aide who now leads a tax policy group at the accounting firm PwC, said turmoil in the first months of a new and sweeping law was to be expected. “Everyone needs to stop and take a deep breath,” he said. “This is normal, against the magnitude of the change.”Still, companies that want change will undoubtedly continue pressuring Congress, Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service, Mr. Kumar said.“Nature favors the bold,” he added. “I suppose you could just sit back and wait, but a better strategy is to be engaging with Treasury and I.R.S., and engaging with the Hill.”David J. Kautter, the acting commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service and Treasury’s assistant secretary for tax policy, said last month that the agency had a detailed plan for introducing clarifications and, when possible, fixes to the legislation.“We have multiple work teams focused on the entire bill,” Mr. Kautter said. “We’re going full bore on guidance.”Republicans and lobbyists say they are optimistic that Congress will act soon on at least the grain glitch. Some lawmakers have been musing about stuffing more fixes into a big, must-pass spending bill expected this month.But that bill would require the support of the Democratic Party, and could give it an ability to demand something in return — such as rollbacks of limitations on state and local tax deductions, which primarily hurt taxpayers in liberal states.A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tax Law’s Errors  Upset Employers  As Leaders Feud.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:Re “Top Economic Adviser to Quit After Tariff Dispute” (front page, March 7):It seems rather odd that Gary Cohn chose not to resign over President Trump’s comments about the Charlottesville march (“very fine people on both sides”), and yet finds that the president’s trade war has crossed some sort of personal line in the sand. Moreover, as a Jew (as am I), he opted not to speak out in the face of anti-Semitic rhetoric sanctioned by his boss.Mr. Cohn’s service in this administration seems to be predicated solely on making sure the tax cut was enacted. Any thought that he is taking a principled stand on the trade issue is disingenuous and self-serving and rings hollow.SHARON RUZUMNABAINBRIDGE ISLAND, WASH.AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and ELIZABETH WILLIAMSONMARCH 29, 2018
President Trump’s hawkish choice for national security adviser doesn’t need the Senate’s approval. That may be lucky for him. The last time senators reviewed his record, many didn’t like what they saw.WASHINGTON — The last time — perhaps the only time — John R. Bolton inspired bipartisan agreement, it was over the shared conclusion that he was perhaps the least diplomatic personality a president could have ever picked to be an American diplomat.That was in 2005, when Mr. Bolton was last considered for a government job. Accounts of his red-faced tirades against intelligence analysts whose findings he disagreed with so concerned members of the Senate that they refused to approve his nomination as President George W. Bush’s ambassador to the United Nations.He wound up getting the job anyway through a recess appointment by Mr. Bush, who later regretted spending the political capital on such a divisive figure, telling conservatives, “I don’t consider Bolton credible.”Thirteen years later, another president has given Mr. Bolton the far more consequential job of national security adviser. But because that post does not require Senate confirmation, the five months in 2005 that the Senate took to decide whether Mr. Bolton should go to the United Nations remain the only extensive examination of his record and his temperament.AdvertisementThose who opposed him then, like Carl W. Ford Jr., along with many who supported him, say Mr. Bolton has not changed.AdvertisementIn an appearance before a Senate committee vetting Mr. Bolton’s nomination in 2005, Mr. Ford, a former assistant secretary of state for intelligence and research in the Bush administration, summed up Mr. Bolton, then an under secretary of state for arms control and international security, as a “kiss-up, kick-down sort of guy.”“I believed then, as I believe now, he lacks any of the qualities to be a senior government official,” Mr. Ford said last week. “It has been my experience that his mouth is much bigger than his brain.”John R. Bolton, President Trump’s choice for national security adviser, was portrayed during a 2005 Senate confirmation hearing as a threat to U.S. interests.The confirmation battle took place during the first years of the Iraq war, a conflict Mr. Bolton supported and defends to this day. In the run-up to the war, he was a key proponent of the administration’s argument for the invasion: that the president of Iraq, Saddam Hussein, possessed weapons of mass destruction that threatened the United States.“We are confident that Saddam Hussein has hidden weapons of mass destruction and production facilities in Iraq,” Mr. Bolton said in 2002. The claim was later shown to be false and based on flawed or selective intelligence.Amid the emotions that the war by then engendered, consideration of Mr. Bolton’s nomination turned into a five-month standoff as Senate Democrats scrutinized what they saw as Mr. Bolton’s efforts to subvert the government’s own findings in pursuit of his and his allies’ beliefs.The release of thousands of pages of documents revealed Mr. Bolton, an ally of Vice President Dick Cheney, to be a volatile, aggressive infighter, who seemed willing to cherry-pick intelligence, steamroll analysts he did not agree with and end-run his State Department bosses in pursuit of an agenda considered bellicose even among Bush administration hawks. He shared that penchant with Mr. Cheney, who repeatedly confronted intelligence professionals and agencies whose analytical assessments did not support his conclusions in favor of the Iraq war.“A lot of officials in Washington behave badly, so that, sadly enough, was unlikely to be disqualifying,” said Antony J. Blinken, the committee’s Democratic staff director. But in examining reasons for Mr. Bolton’s behavior, “That’s when threads started emerging, and when we pulled on them, we started to find things that were truly disturbing, including to Republican members of the committee.”AdvertisementBut not all Republicans, according to Dan Diller, who was deputy staff director for the committee majority.“There was some validity” to accusations of Mr. Bolton’s behavior during the investigation, Mr. Diller wrote in an email, but it “found no clear ethical transgressions. He was an aggressive, sharp-elbowed bureaucratic operator who always tried to get his way, but would relent in the end rather than engaging in insubordination.”When Mr. Bush nominated Mr. Bolton for the United Nations job in March 2005, Condoleezza Rice, then the secretary of state, praised him as a “tough-minded diplomat” with a successful track record as an under secretary for arms control and an assistant secretary of state for international organizations.It later emerged that Ms. Rice and other top diplomats were keen to ship Mr. Bolton off to New York, comfortably away from his portfolio at the State Department. Ms. Rice, now teaching at Stanford, declined to comment for this article.At the opening of Mr. Bolton’s confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee about a month after he was nominated, the committee chairman, Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, a Republican, tried for a balanced assessment.“Opponents of Mr. Bolton have criticized some statements of the nominee as abrasive, confrontational and insensitive,” Mr. Lugar said. “Some of these same statements have been celebrated by supporters of the nominee as demonstrating a tough-minded, refreshingly blunt approach to diplomacy.”Testifying before the committee, Mr. Bolton presented himself as a reformer who would go to the United Nations and help “build institutions that serve as the cornerstone of freedom in nascent democracies,” curb the proliferation of nuclear weapons and support a global war on terror promised by the Bush administration.He also sought to explain his comment — famous even by then — that if the top 10 stories of the 38-story United Nations Secretariat building were lopped off, “it wouldn’t make a bit of difference” by asserting that it “was a way of saying there’s not a bureaucracy in the world that can’t be made leaner and more efficient.”AdvertisementMr. Bolton’s public statements, it turned out, were the least of his problems.Over seven hours on that first day, Democrats explored allegations by intelligence officials that Mr. Bolton had gone after two analysts who disagreed with his views on Cuba’s biological weapons capability.Mr. Bolton was preparing for a speech in which he would accuse a range of nations, including Libya, Iran, Iraq, North Korea and Syria, of possessing chemical and biological weapons when he sought clearance from the intelligence officials for an assertion he wanted to make that Cuba was developing a biological weapons program, a claim that was not, in fact, fully supported by American intelligence.Christian Westermann, a State Department intelligence analyst specializing in biological and chemical weapons, and an unnamed national intelligence official responsible for Latin America disagreed with the claims about Cuba that Mr. Bolton sought to make.Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, told the committee that “trying to remove someone as an analyst from their job because you disagree with what they’re saying, I think, is dreadfully wrong.”Mr. Bolton responded that he had targeted the two officers for reassignment, not for firing, because “If I may say so, their conduct was unprofessional and broke my confidence and trust.”The next day, Mr. Ford, who had run the bureau where Mr. Westermann worked, rattled the committee by describing Mr. Bolton as a “serial abuser” of lower-level staffers.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“There are a lot of screamers that work in government,” Mr. Ford said. “But you don’t pull somebody so low down the bureaucracy that they are completely defenseless. It’s an 800-pound gorilla devouring a banana.”Reflecting on the hearing in an interview this week, Mr. Dodd called Mr. Ford’s testimony “a galvanizing moment.”During the week after Mr. Ford’s appearance, more testimony emerged about Mr. Bolton’s efforts to tailor, suppress or selectively use intelligence as well as intimidate intelligence analysts and other professionals who disagreed with the views held by him or Mr. Cheney and his allies.AdvertisementRexon Ryu, a former State Department official, told the panel he encountered Mr. Bolton’s ire after he neglected to forward a cable related to United Nations weapons inspections in Iraq. Mr. Bolton then tried to block Mr. Ryu’s appointment as a liaison on nonproliferation issues. Mr. Ryu was transferred elsewhere at the State Department, and then recently joined the staff of Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, a committee Republican.The unnamed national intelligence officer for Latin America was revealed to be Fulton Armstrong, who in an interview last week said that Mr. Bolton had targeted him for “vicious attacks,” “rumor campaigns” and “infantile” character assassination.It also emerged that Mr. Bolton had prevented Ms. Rice and her predecessor, Colin Powell, from seeing some State Department findings crucial to drafting policy on Iran, and had kept Ms. Rice out of the loop as he worked to replace Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, seen by Mr. Bolton and his administration faction as too soft on Iran.There was more.The panel also learned that Mr. Bolton had bullied intelligence analysts who made more conservative assessments of Syria’s illicit weapons programs in the run-up to a 2003 speech and had requested classified intercepts from the National Security Agency, including the names of American companies and officials, raising concerns that he was seeking information about ideological opponents.At an emotional committee meeting barely more than a week after the first hearing, two Democrats — Mr. Dodd and Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware — demanded three additional weeks to investigate the charges against Mr. Bolton and seek documents from the White House.Mr. Lugar accused Democrats of stalling and pushed for the committee to vote. But visibly shaken, Senator George Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, said he had heard enough to understand that Mr. Bolton was an ideologue who “fosters an atmosphere of intimidation.” Anyone who behaves in such a way, he concluded, should not be “the face of the United States to the world.”On May 12, 2005, with Mr. Voinovich still unconvinced, the committee lacked the support to recommend Mr. Bolton’s nomination to the full Senate. Instead, they voted along party lines to forward the nomination for a Senate vote “without recommendation,” a relatively rare move.Mr. Bolton’s fate was sealed.Twice, Republicans failed to garner enough votes to break a Democratic filibuster and proceed to a full vote. Before the second attempt, the White House offered to release information related to Mr. Bolton’s Syria speech, but not the list of names from National Security Agency intercepts that Mr. Bolton had sought. Democrats rejected the offer, and in August, Mr. Bush ended up making Mr. Bolton an ambassador in a recess appointment, denouncing what he said were “partisan delaying tactics.”AdvertisementControl of Congress returned to the Democrats the next year, virtually guaranteeing that Mr. Bolton’s time at the United Nations would be short. He left in late 2006. By that time, Mr. Voinovich, who died in 2016, had changed his view of Mr. Bolton.“While Bolton is not perfect,” he wrote, “he has demonstrated his ability, especially in recent months, to work with others and follow the president’s lead by working multilaterally.”Mr. Hagel, who voted in support of Mr. Bolton in 2005 and later became secretary of defense in the Obama administration, also changed his assessment.“The president and America needs a wise, steady and thoughtful national security advisor,” Mr. Hagel wrote in an email last week. “John Bolton is not that person.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Bolton Senate Battle  Reveals a Fiery Man Seen as Unchanged.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa FriedmanThe Environmental Protection Agency is considering a major change to the way it assesses scientific work, a move that would severely restrict the research available to it when writing environmental regulations.Under the proposed policy, the agency would no longer consider scientific research unless the underlying raw data can be made public for other scientists and industry groups to examine. As a result, regulators crafting future rules would quite likely find themselves restricted from using some of the most consequential environmental research of recent decades, such as studies linking air pollution to premature deaths or work that measures human exposure to pesticides and other chemicals.The reason: These fields of research often require personal health information for thousands of individuals, who typically agree to participate only if the details of their lives are kept confidential. The proposed new policy — the details of which are still being worked out — is championed by the E.P.A. administrator, Scott Pruitt, who has argued that releasing the raw data would let others test the scientific findings more thoroughly. “Mr. Pruitt believes that Americans deserve transparency,” said Liz Bowman, an E.P.A. spokeswoman. Critics, though, say that Mr. Pruitt’s goal is not academic rigor, but to undermine much of the science that underpins modern environmental regulations governing clean water and clean air. Restricting the application of established science when crafting new E.P.A. rules could make it easier to weaken or repeal existing health regulations, these people say. The proposal is “cloaked in all of these buzzwords, in all of the positive things that we want to be for: ‘science,’ ‘transparency,’” said Dr. Ivan Oransky, co-founder of Retraction Watch, an independent blog that monitors scientific journals and exposes errors and misconduct. While Dr. Oransky said he agreed that it was critical to hold the scientific process accountable, he said he believed Mr. Pruitt’s intent was to inject doubt into areas of public health where none exists. “Data he doesn’t like will get disqualified,” Dr. Oransky said.The pending E.P.A. policy would have implications for much of what the agency touches, whether it is new rules addressing climate change or regulations for pesticides and protecting children from lead paint. “This affects every aspect of environmental protection in the United States,” said David Michaels, assistant secretary of labor for occupational safety and health under President Barack Obama. Mr. Michaels, now a professor at George Washington University, called the plan “weaponized transparency.”Opponents and supporters agree that the proposed new policy has its roots in the fossil fuel industry’s opposition to a groundbreaking 1993 Harvard University study that definitively linked polluted air to premature deaths. The “Six Cities” study, widely considered one of the most influential public health examinations ever conducted, tracked thousands of people for nearly two decades and ultimately formed the backbone of federal air pollution regulations. In that study, which began in the mid-1970s, scientists signed confidentiality agreements so they could track the private medical and occupational histories of more than 22,000 individuals in six cities around the country. They combined that personal data with home air-quality data in order to study the link between chronic exposure to air pollution and mortality. Academics aren’t typically required to turn over such private data when submitting studies for peer review by other specialists in the field, or for review and publication in scientific journals, which is the traditional way that this kind of research is evaluated. If academics were to turn over the raw data to be made available for public review, the agency would have to spend hundreds of millions of dollars, according to a federal estimate, to redact private information. The bottom line, critics say, is that if the E.P.A. is limited to considering only studies in which the data is publicly available, the agency will have a narrower and incomplete body of research to draw on when considering regulations. “It sends a pretty chilling message to scientists that their work can’t be used or won’t be used,” said Sean Gallagher, a government relations officer with the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a nonprofit science advocacy organization.Mr. Pruitt laid out his plans for the new transparency policy in an interview last week with The Daily Caller, a conservative news site. The proposal is based on legislation named the Honest and Open New E.P.A. Science Treatment Act, also known as the Honest Act, a bill sponsored by Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican. The bill has failed to gain support in Congress for years despite having the support of the energy, manufacturing and chemical industries. That legislation aimed to preclude the E.P.A. from using any studies that could not be independently reproduced. According to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group that tracks campaign finance data, versions of the bill have received support from Exxon Mobil, Peabody Energy, Koch Industries and the American Chemistry Council, which provides policy and research for major chemical companies including Arkema, DuPont and Monsanto.Mr. Smith, the sponsor of the stalled Congressional legislation, applauded the E.P.A.’s proposed move. “Our citizens have a right to see the data that the E.P.A. says justifies their regulations,” he said in a statement. He has argued that E.P.A. regulations in the past were justified by data that was impossible to verify independently.Industry lobbyists who welcome the proposed changes agreed with that assessment. “Peer reviews, and reviews in general, can tell you what you want them to tell you, depending on who is in charge of the department,” said Colin Woodall, senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association. Mr. Woodall, who supported Mr. Smith’s bill as well as the proposed new E.P.A. policy, said he believed studies used under the Obama administration to support clean air regulations, protect national waterways and, in particular, target agriculture’s role in climate change, were flawed. If the underlying data were online, he said, industry groups could “go to our own scientists and say, ‘Can you confirm those conclusions are accurate?’”Opponents of the proposed E.P.A. policy say the effort all comes back to the fossil fuel industry’s decades-long frustration over the Six Cities study and a related one sponsored by the American Cancer Society. Those studies, which have been independently evaluated and have had their findings confirmed, underpinned the first Clean Air Act regulations on fine particulate matter. Based on the research, the E.P.A. in 1997 estimated the rule would prevent 15,000 premature deaths annually and hundreds of thousands of cases of asthma and bronchitis.“They didn’t like the regulation, so they tried to attack the science underlying the regulation,” said Mr. Gallagher of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He said the demand for transparency was in fact an effort to undermine scientific independence. “It has become very clear to us that this is not about science. This is a means to an end.”Since taking the helm of the E.P.A., Mr. Pruitt has clashed with the scientific community several times. In October, the agency forbade three agency scientists from speaking about climate change at a conference on the health of the Narragansett Bay in Rhode Island. Shortly after that, Mr. Pruitt ruled that scientists who receive E.PA. grants would no longer be allowed to serve on the agency’s advisory boards, a move that effectively blocked more than a dozen academic researchers from providing expertise about the latest science as the E.P.A. considered regulations. Last year, more than 200 scientists left the agency, reflecting what many have described as frustration over Mr. Pruitt and President Donald Trump’s policies.Late last year, Mr. Pruitt also proposed holding public debates on the merits of scientific findings that indicate human activity is responsible for climate change — research that is widely accepted within the scientific community. That plan was thwarted by John F. Kelly, the president’s chief of staff. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered eight international climate talks.  @LFFriedmanAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bret StephensI grew up in Mexico City and remember vividly the things that impressed me most as a child whenever I visited the United States. Water you could drink straight from the tap. Cops who didn’t demand bribes. Competitive elections.Unremarkable things for those who live in the U.S. Remarkable things for those who don’t. If you really want to fall in love with America, try leaving it for a while.Since then, I have lived in Chicago, London, Brussels, Jerusalem, New York and Hamburg. I suppose this makes me a “globalist” in certain eyes, though I’ve never seen myself that way. So does the fact that I am convinced of the overwhelming benefits to ordinary Americans of free trade, immigration (both skilled and “unskilled”) and our overseas military alliances.Oh, and I’m Jewish. Which, some say, is what happens to globalism after it’s been circumcised.I note these details since the term “globalist” is in the news again, thanks to a curious statement from Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, following Gary Cohn’s resignation as the president’s top economic adviser.“As a right-wing conservative and founding member of the Freedom Caucus, I never expected that the co-worker I would work closest, and best, with at the White House would be a ‘globalist,’ ” Mulvaney said in a tweet. “Gary Cohn is one of the smartest people I’ve ever worked with. Having the chance to collaborate with him will remain one of the highlights of my career in public service.”That was meant to be gracious, I suppose — in the way that Joe Biden’s 2007 description of Barack Obama as “the first mainstream African-American who is articulate and bright and clean” was meant to be. Putting “globalist” in quotes suggests a jest or in-joke of sorts, so it’s at least possible this wasn’t intended as some kind of anti-Semitic dog whistle.Then again, with this administration you never know. Maybe what Mulvaney was trying to say is that some of his best friends are Jewish.Whatever the case, it’s a revealing remark. Globalist belongs in a class of words (“cuck” is another one, as is “othering”) that tends to say a great deal more about the person who uses it than it does about the person he says it about.To be a globalist means almost nothing — even “Davos Man” has to trundle home somewhere after the annual forum draws to a close. Rex Tillerson is as much a globalist as Samantha Power. Ditto for John Bolton and John Kerry, Charles Koch and George Soros, Mike Pompeo and Julian Assange. A term that embraces opposites has almost no explanatory power.To be an anti-globalist, on the other hand, does specify something. It means someone who is convinced that serious business is transacted at conferences like Davos or Bilderberg or Munich, and that 500 or so people run the world at the expense of everyone else. It means the notion that American prosperity would be well served by a return to a Smoot-Hawley world of punitive tariffs and other beggar-thy-neighbor economic policies. It means the suspicion that Americans whose cultural and geographic horizons are broader than America’s borders are deficient in patriotism.In short, anti-globalism is economic illiteracy married to a conspiracy mind-set. The dark truth about Davos isn’t that it’s sinister or significant. It’s that it’s booooring.With Cohn’s departure, Trumpworld may have lost the last person who knew what hokum anti-globalism is — and was willing to say so directly to the president. Re-reading the Mulvaney tweet, what’s striking about it isn’t the possible hint of anti-Semitism. It’s its toadyism, as if he’s bidding simultaneously to replace Cohn at the National Economic Council next week or work for him in the private sector next year. Who in the White House is left to tell the president he’s nuts when he tries to pull out of Nafta?Maybe it’s time now to make “globalist” mean something after all. An earlier generation of globalists — they called themselves internationalists — had learned the lessons of the 1930s and understood that the U.S. could not cut itself off from the world and expect to remain safe from it. Successive generations of Americans — military and foreign-service officers, businessmen and teachers, humanitarians and entertainers — went out into the world and sought to make it a better place.In 2016, the State Department estimated that as many as nine million Americans lived abroad, which is more people than live in Virginia. Even more so than the free trade champions at the Cato Institute or the foreign policy hawks at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, these expats are our real globalists, representing the things that make America great: adventure, engagement, commerce, openness to new ideas, and a love of America honed by a combination of critical distance and a new depth of appreciation.The White House could use those same virtues. Too bad globalists need not apply.I invite you to follow me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementBy MARK LANDLERMARCH 6, 2018
Several times over the years, negotiations between the United States and North Korea have appeared successful. Each time, the agreement fell apart.WASHINGTON — Diplomacy between the United States and North Korea has gone through familiar cycles of long stagnation, followed by brief bursts of hope and then inevitable disappointment, typically after North Korea reneged. President Trump’s three predecessors each went through the cycle.In October 1994, Bill Clinton concluded what was perhaps the most ambitious nuclear agreement ever reached between Washington and Pyongyang — called, appropriately, the Agreed Framework.Under the deal, North Korea agreed to halt construction of two nuclear reactors that the United States believed would be used to produce fuel for a nuclear bomb. In return, the White House pledged to give North Korea two alternative nuclear power reactors that could not be used in a weapons program — as well as fuel to tide it over before the new reactors were ready.The agreement headed off a threat by North Korea to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and eased what had been one of the tensest periods on the Korean Peninsula since the armistice that ended the Korean War.AdvertisementThe Clinton administration tried to expand the scope of the Agreed Framework after North Korea began testing ballistic missiles in 1998. That effort culminated with a trip to Pyongyang by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright in 2000, and what another American official, Wendy Sherman, later wrote were negotiations that came “tantalizingly close” to a broader agreement.AdvertisementBut no deal was consummated before President George W. Bush took office, and Mr. Bush initiated his own policy review. The disclosure that North Korea was developing a capability to enrich uranium led the Bush administration to conclude that the Agreed Framework was not worth upholding, and construction on the new reactors was suspended.At the end of 2002, North Korea expelled inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency, restarted its nuclear facilities and announced it was withdrawing from the nonproliferation treaty. The Agreed Framework was dead.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.From then on, negotiations occurred within a framework of six parties: North Korea, the United States, South Korea, China, Russia and Japan. Those talks, led on the American side by Christopher R. Hill, went on fitfully from 2002 to 2005, when North Korea promised to “abandon nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programs.”After years of haggling over how to verify the North Korean pledge, the six-party talks broke down in 2009, leaving President Barack Obama to deal with a North Korea that had made progress in its nuclear program and remained opaque and suspicious of the outside world.The Obama administration showed little appetite for reviving the Six-Party process, and instead embarked on a policy of steadily tightening economic pressure on North Korea. But American diplomats began quietly meeting with their North Korean counterparts.On Feb. 29, 2012, the two sides announced a deal — the so-called Leap Day Agreement — under which North Korea would halt operations at its Yongbyon nuclear reactor and allow in inspectors to verify its suspension of nuclear and missile testing. In return, the United States pledged to offer food aid to North Korea.Within a month North Korea was threatening to launch a satellite, effectively nullifying the deal.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By GLENN THRUSHMARCH 22, 2018
WASHINGTON — Ben Carson, the secretary of housing and urban development, took responsibility on Thursday for buying a $31,000 dining room set for his office, two days after saying his wife and assistant oversaw a purchase that has jeopardized his place in President Trump’s cabinet.Mr. Carson faced withering criticism from Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee, which oversees the Department of Housing and Urban Development. One senator, Sherrod Brown of Ohio, suggested that he regretted being one of the few Democrats to support the secretary’s nomination a year ago.“I voted to confirm you,” said Mr. Brown, who is up for re-election this year. “Four other Democrats on this committee voted to confirm you. I’m not sure I made the right decision.”In recent days, Mr. Carson’s aides have repeatedly advised him to apologize for the purchase, arguing that doing so was the only way to move on, according to several people with knowledge of the situation. But Mr. Carson, who has privately fumed about what he regards as the unfairness of being singled out for criticism, resisted doing so until Thursday’s hearing, when one of the panel’s Republicans, Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, gently prodded him to be more contrite.Advertisement“I take responsibility,” Mr. Carson said.Later, he suggested the episode had been a personal ordeal, saying that he modeled his reaction to the criticism on advice that Jesus gave in the Sermon on the Mount, which he summarized as “don’t worry about what people are saying about you, and do the right thing.”AdvertisementMr. Carson’s tone was markedly different on Tuesday, when he told a House subcommittee that he had dealt himself out of the decision-making chain on the dining room set, despite internal department emails showing that he had participated in the selection of specific pieces of furniture last summer.“I invited my wife to come and help,” Mr. Carson said on Tuesday. “I left it to my wife, you know, to choose something. I dismissed myself from the issues.” And it was his wife, Candy, he said, who “selected the color and style” of the furniture, “with the caveat that we were both not happy about the price.”Despite his mea culpa, Mr. Carson took issue with the characterization of the purchase as “extravagant” and press reports that suggested he had authorized $31,000 in taxpayer funding for a single table.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It’s not a table; it’s 17 pieces of furniture,” said Mr. Carson, who canceled the order when it was revealed in the press last month.Mr. Scott, the lone African-American Republican in the Senate, said he was sympathetic to Mr. Carson, joking that he had become “a piñata.” But he also expressed publicly what many Republicans have said much more forcefully in private — that Mr. Carson needed to stop blaming others.The scandal, Mr. Scott said, “has not been helpful, and I appreciate you taking responsibility.”Legislators also confronted Mr. Carson with questions about the firing this week of HUD’s chief information officer, Johnson Joy, after The Guardian disclosed links to a colleague accused of fraud.“I lost confidence in his ability to lead,” Mr. Carson said.When Mr. Brown asked if he was aware of any problems with Mr. Joy, Mr. Carson said, “I generally don’t get involved in lower-level staffing decisions,” adding that Mr. Joy “had a tremendous amount of experience in technological advancement” that the department needed.During the hearing, Mr. Carson continued to show support for Mr. Trump’s 2019 budget request, which included a $6 billion cut to HUD, hours after Senate and House negotiators bypassed the White House to allocate big increases to his agency’s budget.Mr. Carson played no role in the congressional negotiations, House and Senate staff members involved in the process said.A version of this article appears in print on March 23, 2018, on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Carson Backs Down On Purchase Of Furniture.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
The Daily By                     
 MICHAEL BARBARO
 
APRIL 2, 2018
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherPresident Trump’s son-in-law badly wants to overhaul the prison system, while his attorney general bitterly opposes such a move. That has set the scene for a highly personal battle inside the White House.President Trump’s son-in-law wants to overhaul the prison system. The president’s attorney general bitterly opposes such a move.That has set the scene for a highly personal battle inside the White House.On today’s episode:• Matt Apuzzo, a New York Times reporter based in Washington.Background reading:• Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Jared Kushner square off, and prisoners hang in the balance.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.AdvertisementIf you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.AdvertisementFrom your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah and Clare Toeniskoetter, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NICK CORASANITIMARCH 28, 2018
UNION CITY, N.J. — Senator Robert Menendez officially announced his intention to run for re-election at a raucous rally on Wednesday, a remarkable turn two months after federal prosecutors dismissed corruption charges against the New Jersey Democrat.With nearly every state Democratic luminary inside a packed high school gymnasium here, it was an unusual show of force for a candidate who already enjoys a considerable lead in early polling.In his kickoff speech, sometimes delivered in Spanish, Mr. Menendez vowed that he would continue to fight against President Trump’s agenda.“There is a president in Washington who spends his days dividing us and distracting us, but never delivering for us,” Mr. Menendez said, drawing some of his loudest cheers.AdvertisementIn January, it was far from assured that Mr. Menendez would even be on the stage. For 11 weeks last year, the senator was a defendant in a federal corruption trial with headlines tracing the prosecution’s case, which accused him of abusing his office to help his friend and co-defendant, Dr. Salomon Melgen, an eye doctor and political benefactor from Florida.AdvertisementBut after jurors could not reach a verdict, the judge declared a mistrial and Mr. Menendez pronounced himself vindicated. Then the situation quickly changed. First, the Department of Justice announced that it would retry Mr. Menendez. Then the federal judge who oversaw the trial acquitted Mr. Menendez of several charges, severely hampering the retrial effort. Within days, the Department of Justice had dropped the case.If Mr. Menendez was ever worried about his political future, he seemed determined to dispel any notion of that on Wednesday. His campaign playlist featured numbers like “The Champion” by Carrie Underwood and “I Won’t Back Down” by Tom Petty.The people lining the rows in front of the stage at the rally, in the town where he began his political career, were a who’s who of New Jersey Democratic politics: Senator Cory Booker, Gov. Philip D. Murphy, Brian P. Stack, the mayor of Union City, and John Currie, the state party chairman.“I asked the question this morning, ‘Where would we be without Bob Menendez?’ ” Mr. Murphy said.While none of the speakers made explicit reference to Mr. Menendez’s legal battle, a common theme emerged: that the senator was, and always has been, “a fighter.”“This is the man that we need in this fight,” said Mr. Booker, whose 10-minute introduction reached such a crescendo that his voice grew hoarse. “This is the man who will help us to stand against the storm, this is the man that is ready to continue to defend the State of New Jersey.”Nearly the entire 2,800-student population of Union City High School, excused from four periods of classes, filled the gymnasium, waving campaign fliers and bopping to the music of Marc Anthony and Luis Fonsi.AdvertisementMr. Menendez focused much of his speech on the youth in the crowd, recalling the nationwide protests for stronger gun laws and how the students at the School had their own protest. It was the youth, he said, that motivated him to run again.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“While some of you are not old enough to vote, I am not here to ask for your vote, I am here because I am your vote in the United States Senate,” he said.Mr. Menendez’s path to the Democratic nomination is fairly clear. If successful, his likely Republican opponent in the general election will be Bob Hugin, a former pharmaceutical executive with ties to former Gov. Chris Christie. Mr. Hugin’s ability to tap his fortune to finance his campaign could make the contest expensive and possibly more competitive than expected.The race could also turn nasty. At the rally, members of the state Republican Party handed out Monopoly-like cards with Mr. Menendez’s face on a cartoon prisoner and a photo of Mr. Menendez and Mr. Melgen vacationing together.If Mr. Menendez’s corruption trial dampened enthusiasm among Democrats it could spell trouble for other Democratic candidates in November. Democrats across the country are looking to House races in New Jersey as opportunities to pick up seats as they seek to wrest control from Republicans, but Democrats in those races will need a strong turnout to stand a chance.For his part, Mr. Menendez has a keen understanding of local politics, having climbed nearly every rung on the political ladder, from school board member to mayor to state senator to congressman to United States senator, a position he assumed in 2005, when he was appointed by Gov. Jon S. Corzine.He has been re-elected twice, in 2006 and 2012, and has been a prolific fund-raiser, having raised $17 million for his 2012 re-election, according to Federal Election Commission records.Mr. Menendez on Wednesday referred to his roots and a career that started in this city’s school district as evidence of an American dream fulfilled.“That is the promise of America,” he said, offering a subtle dig at Mr. Trump’s immigration policies. “That is the American dream. The idea that anything is possible because everyone is welcome.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KATIE ROGERSMARCH 2, 2018
WASHINGTON — Nearly a month after Rob Porter, the White House staff secretary, resigned amid accusations of domestic abuse, John F. Kelly, the president’s chief of staff, acknowledged on Friday that he had stumbled in response to initial reports of the allegations.“We didn’t cover ourselves in glory,” Mr. Kelly, who had issued a statement in Mr. Porter’s defense, told a group of reporters gathered in his office. He said that Mr. Porter had “presented himself as the ultimate gentleman” while he worked at the White House.“I never saw him mad or abusive in any way,” Mr. Kelly said.The White House has struggled to clarify who knew what about Mr. Porter and when. Mr. Kelly, who worked closely with Mr. Porter and eventually accepted his resignation, had declined to publicly clear up the matter, even as the case  exposed internal frustrations with his sharp-elbowed attempts to end dysfunction in the West Wing.On Friday, Mr. Kelly offered his version of the events, adding to the White House’s ever-winding timeline on Mr. Porter while leaving many questions unaddressed. This time, Mr. Kelly agreed with a chronology provided by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I., who said that information about Mr. Porter had been delivered to the White House security office nearly a year ago.Advertisement“What Chris Wray said was accurate,” Mr. Kelly said. “We had received some information at the White House security office on Rob Porter in March.”AdvertisementMr. Kelly also said that Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, had been unaware of an issue with Mr. Porter’s background investigation, even though Mr. Porter had mentioned to Mr. McGahn in January 2017 that he was worried that his former wives had damaging information against him. (That month, his first wife, Colbie Holderness, sent an F.B.I. agent a set of photographs that showed her with a black eye that she said Mr. Porter had given her.)Mr. Kelly did not say what was in the initial cache of information sent by the F.B.I. last March, or what the bureau sent in subsequent bundles in July and November, delivered after the White House had requested follow-up information on the investigation into Mr. Porter.In the days after Mr. Porter’s resignation, multiple people familiar with the situation said top officials, including Mr. McGahn, Mr. Kelly and Joe Hagin, the deputy chief of staff, had learned in November that there were problems with Mr. Porter’s background investigation.But Mr. Kelly said that he had not personally known about accusations against Mr. Porter until the afternoon of Feb. 6. Over a few hours that day, Mr. Kelly said, he had issued a statement in strong support of Mr. Porter after Mr. Porter’s second former wife, Jennifer Willoughby, accused him of abuse. Mr. Kelly said that Ms. Willoughby had “made no mention of any type of physical abuse.”On Friday, Ms. Willoughby said that Mr. Kelly’s comments “added to my opinions of how poorly the White House has handled the situation for weeks,” and questioned why her account was not enough for Mr. Kelly to fire Mr. Porter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“He didn’t feel Rob should resign until he was accused of physical abuse. That is disturbing,” she said in an email, adding: “I had filed a protective order and called the police on several occasions and I detailed being pulled naked from the shower. That Gen. Kelly does not consider that ‘abuse’ is terrifying to me.”Mr. Porter offered to resign on Feb. 6, but how seriously Mr. Kelly took Mr. Porter’s initial offer remains unclear. Mr. Kelly said he then departed to Capitol Hill for a meeting on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program — “Where did that go?” he joked on Friday — but by the time he returned, Ms. Holderness had come forward with accusations of physical abuse. Mr. Kelly said that he then accepted Mr. Porter’s resignation, emphasizing that that was before he had seen the photos of Ms. Holderness’s black eye. “No pictures, by the way,” he told reporters.On Friday, current and former White House officials disputed the timeline Mr. Kelly gave, and said that Mr. Porter was never outright fired, as Mr. Kelly has privately suggested.AdvertisementMr. Kelly’s timeline still does not explain why Mr. Porter returned to the White House the next day, or why the White House said the next day that Mr. Porter would remain on staff for a time before leaving. But Mr. Kelly said he would take the blame.“I should have collected everyone that works here,” Mr. Kelly said when asked about the fuzziness in the hours after the first report of abuse. “All 1,100 people.”In the meeting on Friday, Mr. Kelly sought to allay speculation that he had faced pressure to resign over the scandal surrounding Mr. Porter, and denied reports that he had offered to do so.“I have absolutely nothing to even consider resigning over,” he said.Mr. Kelly declined to discuss questions that have arisen about security clearances since Mr. Porter resigned. Days ago, Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and a senior adviser, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance after months of delays in completing his background check.Mr. Kelly said that he had been the one to bring order to the process over security clearances at the White House when he arrived last summer. He said that about six weeks into the job, he started trying to organize administrative paperwork and saw that background investigations into “a couple of spreadsheets’ worth” of people were still not complete.“It came to my notice that the kind of things I was used to” in previous jobs, including at the Defense Department, Mr. Kelly said, were not “up to the standards I’d been used to.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.A version of this article appears in print on March 3, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Kelly Admits Mishandling Allegations About Aide.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 3:27 P.M. E.D.T.
GREENWICH, Conn. —  A property once owned by President Donald Trump and Ivana Trump is back on the market for $45 million.The Wall Street Journal reports the Greenwich, Connecticut, mansion shared by the now president and his then-wife is relisted.Owners Robert and Suzanne Steinberg have been trying to sell the 20,000-square-foot house for years. The home is listed as having eight bedrooms, 13 bathrooms and eight fireplaces. It also features a putting green, swimming pool and dock leading to the Long Island Sound.Coldwell Banker says the Depression-era home was purchased by Donald and Ivana Trump in the early 1980s for $4 million. The couple divorced in 1992. Ivana Trump sold it to the Steinbergs for $15 million in 1998.The Steinbergs plan to build a new home elsewhere.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 3:15 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  A porn star who said she had an affair with President Donald Trump and is suing so she can discuss the alleged relationship can't have a jury trial or question the president under oath because the request is premature, a federal judge in Los Angeles ruled Thursday.Stormy Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, had been seeking to invalidate the non-disclosure agreement she signed days before the 2016 presidential election and offered to return the $130,000 she was paid to "set the record straight."Daniels' attorney, Michael Avenatti, on Wednesday asked for a jury trial and sought sworn testimony from Trump and his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, about the payment that was made to Daniels as part of the nondisclosure agreement.Trump's attorneys filed documents in federal court in Los Angeles earlier this month seeking to compel private arbitration in the case and argued that Daniels could owe about $20 million for violating the agreement.AdvertisementDaniels argues the agreement is legally invalid because it was only signed by Daniels and Cohen, but was not signed by Trump.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She's said she had sex with Trump once in 2006 and their relationship and continued for about a year. Trump married his current wife, Melania Trump, in 2005, and their son, Barron, was born in 2006.AdvertisementThe White House has said Trump denies having an affair.Cohen's attorney, David Schwartz, told CBS that the filing seeking to compel Trump and Cohen's testimony was a "reckless use of the legal system."Avenatti is planning to refile his motion as soon as Trump's attorneys formally demand an arbitration proceeding in the case, he said Thursday.The ruling, handed down on Thursday, said the case "is not the most important matter on the court's docket."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:05 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  There are no specific U.S. policy changes at the moment with regard to Amazon.com Inc, but the Trump administration is always looking at different options, a White House official told Reuters on Wednesday.The comments came after Axios reported President Donald Trump has talked about changing Amazon's tax treatment because he is worried about mom-and-pop retailers being put out of business.(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Editing by Tom Brown)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 10:42 A.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  The Latest on relations between Russian President Vladimir Putin and U.S. President Donald Trump: (all times local):6:25 p.m.The White House has confirmed that U.S. President Donald Trump invited Russia's Vladimir Putin to Washington.Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Monday that the White House was among "a number of potential venues" Putin and Trump discussed during a March 20 telephone conversation.Huckabee Sanders said: "As the President himself confirmed on March 20, hours after his last call with President Putin, the two had discussed a bilateral meeting in the 'not-too-distant future' at a number of potential venues, including the White House."She says the administration has no further comment on the matter.___5:45 p.m.An aide to Russian President Vladimir Putin says U.S. President Donald Trump has invited the Russian leader to the White House, but the two countries haven't started any preparations for such a visit.AdvertisementTrump and Putin had a telephone conversation on March 20 in which Trump congratulated Putin on winning the Russian presidential election two days earlier. The White House and the Kremlin said at the time the two presidents discussed meeting in person.Putin aide Yuri Ushakov told Russian news agencies on Monday that Trump specifically invited Putin to the White House during the call.AdvertisementUshakov added that their governments didn't have time to start arranging a meeting before the United States joined Britain and more than two dozen allies in sanctioning Russia over the nerve-agent poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in England.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:11 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, who was fired by the Trump administration but has said he was terminated because he is a crucial witness in the Russia investigation, has raised more than $292,000 in seven hours to help cover costs defending against other ongoing government probes, the funding website showed.A statement on the GoFundMe internet page unveiled earlier on Thursday said the goal was to raise $150,000 from the public but it was raised to $250,000 because of a response that "has been remarkable and beyond our expectations."The action represents an escalation of the battle between McCabe and the administration over his firing amid heavy criticism by President Donald Trump. It also raises the prospect that McCabe could legally challenge his termination in the future."Andrew McCabe’s FBI career was long, distinguished, and unblemished," the statement said. "His reward for that has been a termination that was completely unjustified, amidst repeated ad hominem attacks by the President of the United States." https://www.gofundme.com/andrewmccabelegaldefensefundAdvertisementThe page features a photo of McCabe with his wife, two children and the family dog, Jeremiah.On March 16, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced  that he was terminating McCabe after the Justice Department's inspector general concluded that the Federal Bureau of Investigation veteran had leaked information to the press and misled investigators about his actions.AdvertisementThe report used as the basis for the firing has still not been made public. Following McCabe's termination, Trump took to Twitter, where he declared it was a "great day for Democracy."McCabe’s dismissal came less than two days before his 50th birthday, when he would have been eligible to retire from the Federal Bureau of Investigation with his full pension.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.McCabe has disputed the findings by the inspector general's office. He said he believes he is facing administration retaliation because he is a crucial witness into whether Trump may have tried to obstruct a criminal probe now being led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller into alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election.While he was the FBI's No. 2 official, McCabe was deeply involved in overseeing investigations related to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server, and whether Russia colluded with Trump's campaign. Trump has denied that any collusion occurred and Russia has denied meddling.Reuters has reported that McCabe kept contemporaneous notes following his conversations with Trump, as well as notes related to former FBI Director James Comey's conversations with Trump.Trump fired Comey in 2017, prompting Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to appoint Mueller as special counsel. Trump later acknowledged in a televised interview that he fired Comey over "this Russia thing."(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Additional reporting by Eric Walsh; Editing by Toni Reinhold)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOpEd ContributorBy HengPresident Trump was sidelined as North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, made a secret visit to President Xi Jinping of China. The unexpected meeting took place ahead of Mr. Trump’s plans for talks with Mr. Kim about denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 10:01 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):9:55 p.m.The Mexican foreign ministry says U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has told Mexico's top diplomat that U.S. National Guard troops being deployed to the border "will not carry arms or carry out migration or customs control activities."Mexican Foreign Secretary Luis Videgaray is in Washington on a visit. A foreign ministry statement issued Wednesday night says Nielsen told Videgaray that the troops will only be providing support for Department of Homeland Security work.It says the deployment will be similar to ones in 2006 under President George Bush and in 2010 with President Barack Obama.Trump signed a proclamation earlier Wednesday ordering the secretary of defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and migrants.Advertisement___8:30 p.m.Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey says his state welcomes the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border.AdvertisementIn a statement Wednesday, Ducey says he looks forward to working closely with federal officials on the issue.President Donald Trump has ordered the Secretary of Defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and people.Ducey says "Washington has ignored this issue for too long and help is needed."The governor says he's been in touch with Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen multiple times this week and Arizona will cooperate fully with the Trump administration.___8:15 p.m.President Donald Trump has signed a proclamation directing the National Guard to be deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border.Trump says Wednesday in a memorandum to his secretaries of defense and homeland security and to his attorney general that the "situation at the border has now reached a point of crisis."The document orders the Secretary of Defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and people.And it orders the agency heads to submit a report within 30 days outlining what other steps can be taken.AdvertisementTrump says that "lawlessness" at the southern border is "fundamentally incompatible with the safety, security, and sovereignty of the American people." And he says his administration "has no choice but to act."___7:35 p.m.New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez says she appreciates the Trump administration's efforts to involve states as the federal government takes steps to better secure the border.Martinez spokesman Mike Lonergan said Wednesday that the Republican governor offers her full support to the New Mexico National Guard as the Trump administration announced it would deploy Guardsmen to the southwest border.The governor's office says the U.S. wouldn't be in the current situation if Congress would act on immigration reforms that address border security.Martinez often has framed immigration issues as a matter of public safety for New Mexico, and she has been a proponent of close cooperation between local law enforcement and Immigration and Customs Enforcement.She clashed with Trump on his comments about Mexican immigrants during his campaign for president.___6:55 p.m.Mexican senators are urging President Enrique Pena Nieto to temporarily suspend cooperation with the U.S. on immigration and security issues, responding to angry tweets from President Donald Trump about their country.The nonbinding statement was approved unanimously Wednesday. It asks Mexico's government to freeze joint efforts "in the fight against transnational organized crime" until Trump acts "with the civility and respect that the people of Mexico deserve."AdvertisementThe senators condemn the "baseless and offensive comments about Mexico and Mexicans," reject efforts to militarize the countries' shared border and ask the U.S. Congress to insist the president deal with Mexico "on the basis of respect and collaboration."Pena Nieto told reporters his government is waiting for clarifications about U.S. intentions to send troops to the border before presenting a "very clear" position on the issue.___6:05 p.m.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott's office says he will add more National Guard members to the roughly 100 already deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border in the state.Abbott said in a statement Wednesday that he welcomed the Trump administration's announcement that it will "immediately" deploy guardsmen to the southwest border. The Republican governor said the announcement "reinforces Texas' longstanding commitment to secure our southern border."Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry ordered 1,000 guardsmen to the border in July 2014 during a large spike in crossings by unaccompanied migrant children. State leaders announced months later that they would wind down most of that deployment.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Texas also has state troopers stationed at its border to assist the Border Patrol and local law enforcement.___5:45 p.m.Republicans who lead congressional Homeland Security committees are supporting President Donald Trump's plan to deploy National Guard troops on the U.S.-Mexico border.Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the House homeland panel, calls the move "a positive step toward providing the safety this nation has long demanded" on the border.Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, chairman of the Senate homeland panel, also backs Trump's action and says he is working with the administration to fix the "broken" immigration system and close legal loopholes that encourage illegal immigration.AdvertisementJohnson says the president and Congress have a duty to protect American citizens and secure the border.Democratic Sen. Tom Udall of New Mexico denounced the plan as "another pitiful attempt to distract attention from the dangerous chaos" Trump has created.___3:45 p.m.The Trump administration says it is working with governors to "immediately" deploy the National Guard to combat illegal immigration at the U.S.-Mexico border.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said Wednesday that DHS and the Pentagon will be working closely with governors in the affected states.She says that deployment will be done as expeditiously as possible and that Guard troops could begin heading to the border as soon as Wednesday night.Trump announced his plan to send the military to the border during a meeting with Baltic leaders Tuesday.Trump has been frustrated by Congress' refusal to fund building a wall along the length of the U.S. border as well as an increase in illegal border crossings.___3:30 p.m.President Donald Trump will be signing a proclamation directing the departments of Defense and Homeland Security to work together with governors to deploy the National Guard to the southwest border.AdvertisementHomeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen made the announcement at the White House on Wednesday. She says he'll sign the proclamation later in the day.Nielsen is also railing against the country's current immigration laws and calling on Congress to make changes.She says the current system "rewards bad behavior" and "it's time to act."She says details are still being worked out, but National Guard personnel are expected to assist with U.S. Customs and Border Protection's mission.Trump announced on Tuesday that he plans to deploy the military to the southern border until his long-promised wall is built.___7:35 a.m.President Donald Trump is promising "strong action today" on immigration.Trump says on Twitter: "Our Border Laws are very weak while those of Mexico & Canada are very strong. Congress must change these Obama era, and other, laws NOW! The Democrats stand in our way — they want people to pour into our country unchecked....CRIME! We will be taking strong action today."The president did not detail what that action would be. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Trump said Tuesday that wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised border wall is erected. The White House later said Trump wanted to mobilize the National Guard.___6:45 a.m.President Donald Trump wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his "big, beautiful wall" is erected.AdvertisementHe said during a news conference Tuesday: "Until we can have a wall and proper security, we're going to be guarding our border with the military."He has been frustrated by the lack of progress on fulfilling the signature promise of his campaign.Federal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., unless specifically authorized by Congress. But over the past 12 years, presidents have twice sent National Guard troops to the border to bolster security and assist with surveillance and other support.The administration appears to be considering a model similar to a 2006 operation deployed by President George W. Bush.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 7:19 P.M. E.D.T.
MEMPHIS, Tenn. —  A half century after the assassination of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., U.S. civil rights leaders say they are fearful President Donald Trump could reverse progress made on civil rights in the United States since King's death.The racism that King's leadership helped subdue has returned, said E. Lynn Brown, a former associate of King's who is bishop of the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church near Memphis, Tennessee, pointing to a resurgence of white supremacists since Trump launched his campaign for president."They were afraid to show their ugly heads in a prominent way. Now, Trump has given them a voice and created a climate where they are not afraid to show their ugly heads," Brown said.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.King died of an assassin's bullet in Memphis, Tennessee, on April 4, 1968, ending his leadership of a nonviolent campaign for equal rights for African-Americans. His death shook the United States in a year that would also bring race riots, violent anti-war demonstrations and the assassination of presidential candidate Robert Kennedy.AdvertisementTo be sure, Trump praised King in glowing terms upon the celebration of King's birthday in January, and the president has pointed to historically low unemployment for African-Americans as evidence that blacks are benefiting from his presidency.AdvertisementBlack leaders were proud to have Barack Obama as president and some have lamented that Trump succeeded him.The maverick Republican has drawn criticism for praising pro-Confederate demonstrators in Charlottesville, Virginia, last August as "some very fine people." He has also picked Twitter fights with black athletes and appointed few minorities to high office.Some conservative African-Americans have seen the critique of Trump as unfair, saying white supremacists, neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan existed while Obama was president."We have to be very careful at pointing fingers at the White House when in fact racial progress happens at our house," said U.S. Senator Tim Scott, a Republican from South Carolina.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Even so, Scott criticized Trump for his comments after Charlottesville as unhelpful but said the history of race relations was unrelated to the occupant of the White House."We're too quick to say that someone is racist if we don't hear in their words what we want to hear," said Ward Connerly, a conservative African-American who has long fought against racial preferences for minorities. "There are many things I think you can say about Trump, but I don't think that he's a racist."Still, some civil rights leaders have not forgiven Trump for his reaction to the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, in which white nationalists demonstrated to preserve pro-slavery monuments and neo-Nazis chanted anti-Semitic slogans.After a white nationalist killed a counter-demonstrator when he drove his car into a crowd, Trump said there was blame "on many sides."Advertisement"When I heard Mr. Trump say there were good people, some good people on both sides, and saw the violence in Charlottesville, it made me cry. I really cried," said U.S. Representative John Lewis, a Democrat from Georgia who endured life-threatening injuries as a civil rights leader in the 1960s."But it also made me more determined to do all I could to help our country move forward," Lewis said.(Reporting by Kia Johnson; Additional reporting by Kevin Fogarty and Daniel Trotta; Writing by Daniel Trotta; Editing by Frank McGurty and Chris Reese)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 11:35 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - The Trump administration is mulling a crackdown on Chinese investments in technologies that the U.S. considers sensitive by employing a law reserved for national emergencies, among other options, Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the matter.The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, enacted in 1977, allows the president to declare a national emergency in response to an "unusual and extraordinary threat."After declaring such an emergency, the president can block transactions and seize assets.Earlier this month, U.S. President Donald Trump blocked a potential takeover of Qualcomm Inc by Broadcom Ltd, citing national security concerns.The U.S. government and the Treasury department were not immediately available for comments.(Reporting by Parikshit Mishra in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 5:51 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Looking to get ahead in President Donald Trump's Washington? Borrow his media playbook.With suggestive statements, cryptic tweets, provocative lawsuits and must-see television interviews, Trump's adversaries are using some of his own tactics to grab — and keep — the spotlight. From adult film star Stormy Daniels to former FBI Director James Comey, each has become a must-see supporting character in the president's daily drama.At the moment, the most visible is Daniels, who received a $130,000 payment to stay silent about an alleged affair with Trump and is now seeking to invalidate a non-disclosure agreement. She and her attorney Michael Avenatti have teased out details of her relationship with Trump for weeks, with Avenatti giving explosive interviews almost daily and Daniels taunting the president on social media.Avenatti and Daniels have also hinted she might have proof of the affair. Avenatti tweeted a photo of a CD-Rom that purported to contain evidence. And when Daniels was asked on CBS' "60 Minutes" if she had texts, images or other items, she replied: "I can't answer that right now."AdvertisementIt was, of course, the kind of cliffhanger Trump has perfected.He mastered the art of the tease, building suspense in the name of more attention, long before he ran for office. He's employed similar tactics in the White House, bringing reality show stylings to the often mundane functions of government.Advertisement"He does like to create some mystery around the great Oz behind the curtain," said George Rush, former gossip columnist at the New York Daily News.As a Manhattan real estate developer, Trump dished out news scoops and gossip items — sometimes about his properties, sometimes about his personal life — in order to boost his own celebrity and interest in his buildings. He'd play one New York tabloid off the other to increase the buzz for his brand.He took it further as the star of "The Apprentice," a reality TV show that portrayed Trump as America's CEO, and built suspense by firing a cast member each week.Now in the White House, Trump plays every decision for maximum suspense.He paraded prospective Cabinet secretaries before a press pack at his private golf club and through the lobby of his Manhattan skyscraper. He's dragged out global policy decisions, tossing out a "stay tuned" last fall when asked if he'd negotiate with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. And he has kept Washington guessing on how he would respond to the investigations of Russian election meddling, often employing the same suspenseful, and perhaps ominous, catchphrase: "We'll see what happens.""Trump helped create an atmosphere of media chaos," said Jeffrey McCall, a communications professor at DePauw University. "Into that atmosphere you have any number of people wanting to show up."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Indeed, Daniels' lawyer has become a daily presence on cable TV, seeming almost to taunt the president and daring Trump to respond.Her "60 Minutes" interview came just days after former Playboy model Karen McDougal tearfully told CNN about a monthslong affair with Trump that she described as a "real relationship." McDougal has filed suit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer.A third woman is also taking Trump on in court. A New York City judge has ruled that a defamation lawsuit by Summer Zervos, a former contestant on "The Apprentice," can move forward while the president is in office. Zervos has accused Trump of unwanted sexual contact in 2007 after she had appeared on the show with him, and sued after he dismissed the claims as made up. Her lawyers have said they want to depose Trump.AdvertisementThen there's Comey, the former FBI director who was fired by Trump last year. Comey has an upcoming book, "A Higher Loyalty," which has already topped Amazon.com's best-seller list. He's been keeping interest alive on Twitter and has a series of high-profile interviews set up.In February, Comey tweeted a picture of himself in a recording booth and said: "Lordy, this time there will be a tape. Audio book almost finished." It was a reference to one of Trump's teases — a tweet he sent out, saying Comey "better hope that there are no 'tapes' of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!" Eventually Trump acknowledged that he did not tape any conversations."Comey, he hasn't been just a flash in the pan," said McCall. "Comey, he keeps surfacing, he disappears from the agenda and he finds a way to get back in."Other Trump-land characters seeking the spotlight include former aide Omarosa Manigault Newman, who exited the White House recently and headed straight for "Celebrity Big Brother," where she suggested she was thinking of writing a tell-all book.Offering a mantra for the Trump era, she said: "I have to tell my truth. I'm tired of being muted."___Follow Lucey on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@catherine_lucey and Lemire at http://twitter.com/@JonLemireWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE NEW YORK TIMESMARCH 8, 2018
Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim were said to have agreed to direct talks, a first between a U.S. president and a North Korean leader.The following is a transcript of the remarks made on Thursday by South Korea’s national security adviser, Chung Eui-yong,  at the White House after a meeting with President  Trump.Good evening.Today, I had the privilege of briefing President Trump on my recent visit to Pyongyang, North Korea. I’d like to thank President Trump, the vice president and his wonderful national security team, including my close friend General McMaster. I explained to President Trump that his leadership and his maximum pressure policy, together with international solidarity, brought us to this juncture. I expressed President Moon Jae-in’s personal gratitude for President Trump’s leadership.I told President Trump that, in our meeting, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said he is committed to denuclearization. Kim pledged that North Korea will refrain from any further nuclear or missile tests. He understands that the routine joint military exercises between the Republic of Korea and the United States must continue. And he expressed his eagerness to meet President Trump as soon as possible.President Trump appreciated the briefing and said he would meet Kim Jong-un by May to achieve permanent denuclearization.AdvertisementThe Republic of Korea, along with the United States, Japan, and our many partners around the world remain fully and resolutely committed to the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Along with President Trump, we are optimistic about continuing a diplomatic process to test the possibility of a peaceful resolution.The Republic of Korea, the United States and our partners stand together in insisting that we not repeat the mistakes of the past, and that the pressure will continue until North Korea matches its words with concrete actions.AdvertisementThank you.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 5:38 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Latest on adult film star Stormy Daniels and Donald Trump (all times local):5:30 p.m.Adult film star Stormy Daniels is now suing President Donald Trump's personal attorney Michael Cohen for defamation.The new allegation is part of a revised complaint filed Monday by Daniels' lawyer Michael Avenatti. It comes a day after a ratings-grabbing "60 Minutes" interview in which Daniels said she'd had sex with Trump years ago and has been threatened to keep her silence.The suit now alleges that Cohen made a false statement that damaged Daniels' reputation when he released a statement in February that intimated she was lying.It also alleges the confidentially agreement Daniels signed is invalid for a new reason: because the payment she received in exchange for her silence violated campaign finance law.AdvertisementAvenatti told MSNBC that Cohen has "misled the American people" and that Daniels is telling the truth.Advertisement___2:20 p.m.CBS says its "60 Minutes" interview with Stormy Daniels drew the news magazine's biggest audience in a decade.The Nielsen company estimates that slightly more than 22 million viewers tuned in Sunday to hear the adult film star talk about an alleged 2006 sexual encounter with Donald Trump and the aftermath.If that figure holds, it would mean more people watched the Daniels interview than watched the 2016 "60 Minutes" interview with President-elect Trump and his family on Nov. 13, 2016.CBS says that interview drew 20 million viewers.In the "60 Minutes" interview, Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, said that she had one encounter of consensual sex with the future president. Daniels also said she was threatened by an unidentified man to keep quiet about it.___The White House says President Donald Trump is continuing to deny allegations by adult film star Stormy Daniels that she had an affair with Trump in 2006.White House spokesman Raj Shah says Trump has repeatedly denied the claims and says he's the only one who's been consistent in his story.He says that the White House did not violate federal campaign finance law in its dealings with Daniels. And he's referring questions about Trump lawyer Michael Cohen and the campaign's actions to them.AdvertisementDaniels said in a "60 Minutes" interview that aired Sunday that she was threatened by an unidentified man in Las Vegas to keep quiet about her alleged relationship with Trump.Shah says Trump doesn't believe she was threatened.He says, "There's nothing to corroborate her claim."___10:15 a.m.An attorney for Trump lawyer Michael Cohen says his client had nothing to do with an alleged threat made against adult film star Stormy Daniels.Lawyer Brent Blakely said in a letter late Sunday that Daniels and her lawyer Michael Avenatti made "false and defamatory statements" in an episode of "60 Minutes" that aired Sunday night.Daniels said in the interview she'd been threatened by an unidentified man to keep quiet about her alleged relationship with Trump.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Blakely says Cohen "had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident, and does not even believe that any such person exists, or that such incident ever occurred."He's accusing the pair of libel and demanding they "cease and desist from making" false and defamatory statements" and apologize to Cohen publicly.__8:15 a.m.A lawyer for Michael Cohen, a Trump attorney who has said he paid $130,000 to Stormy Daniels as part of a nondisclosure agreement, says Daniels lied in her "60 Minutes" interview about having an affair with Donald Trump in 2006."The lying is all over that piece," says David Schwarz, Cohen's lawyer, on ABC "Good Morning America."AdvertisementTrump has denied an affair. Daniels received the payment days before the 2016 presidential election for her silence and has sought to invalidate the nondisclosure agreement.Schwartz also says the suggestion by Daniels' lawyer, Michael Avenatti, that someone associated with Trump or his organization was behind a threatening incident in 2011 is "speculation" and "guesswork."Daniels said in the "60 Minutes" interview that in 2011 man approached her in a parking lot as she was going to a fitness class with her daughter. She says the man told her: "Leave Trump alone. Forget the story."Schwartz disparaged Daniels' claim, saying she didn't go to the police over the incident, but simply proceeded "to her Pilates class."__8 a.m.The lawyer representing adult film star Stormy Daniels is declining to specify what evidence he is still holding back in support of allegations Daniels had an affair with Donald Trump and was threatened if she didn't keep silent.Michael Avenatti tells NBC on Monday that his client is "not going to get into the details of everything we have at this time." But he insists "there will be more evidence."He made the rounds of television talk shows the morning after Daniels' "60 Minutes" interview on CBS. On Monday, Avenatti was asked about his tweet last week of a photo of a CD or DVD that he told CBS was a "warning shot." But he declined to say more about the image, which is unlabeled and indistinct.Daniels said on "60 Minutes" that she was threatened by an unidentified man to keep silent about her alleged sexual encounter with Donald Trump in 2006.AdvertisementAvenatti says he is still working to verify the man's identity. He says he has no direct evidence tying the threat to Trump or his lawyer "other than common sense."__12:34 a.m.Adult film star Stormy Daniels says she was threatened to keep silent about an alleged sexual encounter with Donald Trump in 2006, telling her story in a highly anticipated interview with CBS' "60 Minutes."Daniels said she was threatened by an unidentified man in Las Vegas to keep quiet about her alleged relationship with Trump, an incident that she said happened while she was with her young daughter. She said in the interview that aired Sunday that she had one encounter of consensual sex with the future president.The adult film actress, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, provided little new evidence of her alleged 2006 affair with Trump but said she faced intimidation tactics aimed at ensuring her silence in 2011.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 7:04 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The largest American business lobby group came to the defense of Amazon.com Inc on Tuesday after a multi-day Twitter attack by U.S. President Donald Trump that included unsubstantiated criticism of the world's biggest online retailer.The value of Amazon shares held by Jeff Bezos, the online retailer's chief executive and single largest shareholder, had taken a $10 billion hit in the week since Trump began attacking him and his company on Twitter.Citing an unspecified report, Trump told reporters at the White House that the company was not paying the U.S. Postal Service a fair rate, and that it was costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars and forcing other retailers out of business, and he threatened to raise rates.Late on Tuesday afternoon, a source familiar with proceedings at the White House said no specific actions addressing Trump's concerns about Amazon were on the table at the White House at this time, but that could change given Trump's dissatisfaction with the company.AdvertisementThe U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest business lobby group in the country, stepped in on Tuesday to defend Amazon, which is a member.Advertisement"It’s inappropriate for government officials to use their position to attack an American company," Neil Bradley, chief policy officer of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement, citing the value of the free enterprise system and the rule of law. "The record is clear: deviating from those processes undermines economic growth and job creation.”It is not the first time Trump, or another U.S. president, has been publicly critical of a company. Trump has previously criticized automakers, Carrier Corp, which is owned by United Technologies Corp and Boeing Co.In 2015, then-President Barack Obama criticized office supply company Staples Inc for not embracing the Affordable Care Act, drawing a quick rebuke from Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.Trump has progressively escalated his criticism of Amazon and Bezos, who also privately owns The Washington Post, which has published stories that have angered the president.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Bezos, ranked by Forbes magazine as the world's richest man with an estimated net worth of $115.6 billion, owns 78.89 million Amazon shares, worth about $110 billion at Tuesday's market close.Amazon shares closed up 1.5 percent at $1,392.05. The shares started the day higher but fell as low as $1,355.33 after Trump's latest Amazon-related tweet.Trump has accused Amazon of not paying enough tax, taking advantage of the U.S. postal system and putting small retailers out of business, but he has offered no evidence to back up his criticisms."The post office is losing billions of dollars ... because it delivers packages for Amazon at a very low rate," Trump told reporters on Tuesday. "If you look at the cost that we're subsidizing, we're giving a subsidy to Amazon."AdvertisementTrump offered no details about the report he cited or how he might charge the company more through USPS.Amazon also ships packages through providers such as FedEx Corp and United Parcel Service Inc as well as its own experimental shipping service.Representatives of Amazon and USPS had no comment on Trump's tweet on Tuesday and could not be immediately reached regarding his latest comments to reporters.(Reporting by Ginger Gibson and Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Jeff Mason, Makini Brice and Lisa Lambert; Writing by Susan Heavey Editing by Bill Rigby and Leslie Adler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 1:07 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Stormy Daniels says she got paid $130,000 to keep quiet about a 2006 sexual encounter with Donald Trump. The porn star's claim has created an uproar — but did anything illegal happen?Some questions and answers:WAS THE $130K ILLEGAL?President Trump has denied the encounter, through his representatives. But his lawyer, Michael Cohen, has said he paid Daniels $130,000 out of his own pocket days before the 2016 election. That has prompted questions about whether it was effectively a campaign contribution. Cohen denies the payment was related to the campaign.The transaction itself does not seem to be illegal, but the failure to report it either as a campaign contribution or on government ethics forms might be.___WHO OBJECTS?Two complaints have been filed by watchdog groups. Common Cause says in a complaint to the Federal Election Commission that the payment may violate federal campaign finance law in several respects. It said it should have been reported as an in-kind campaign contribution and was far above the $5,400 Cohen could give Trump's campaign. Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington also has asked the Justice Department and the Office of Government Ethics to investigate whether the payment to Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, may have violated federal law because Trump did not list it on his financial disclosure forms.AdvertisementCohen has said neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment. However, Daniels' attorney Michael Avenatti told "60 Minutes" he has documents showing Cohen using his Trump Organization email address in setting up the payment and that the nondisclosure agreement was sent by FedEx to Cohen at his Trump Organization office in Trump Tower.Advertisement___ISN'T THIS JUST A TECHNICALITY?The groups that filed these complaints say their beef isn't just about technical violations of obscure election and ethics laws. They say the complaints may open the door to more serious allegations that could force Cohen, and potentially Trump, to testify under oath.  Common Cause vice president Paul S. Ryan said Cohen should be asked under oath about Trump's involvement in the payment. "Michael Cohen knows whether Donald Trump is directly involved in all of this," Ryan said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___WHAT'S THE PENALTY FOR ILLEGAL CONTRIBUTIONS?There can be both civil and criminal penalties if investigators determine that the campaign or Cohen intended to keep the payment secret. This is not an easy standard to prove in court. Prosecutors failed to get a conviction against former presidential candidate and Sen. John Edwards on charges that he received illegal contributions and falsified documents to pay for the silence of his pregnant mistress as he campaigned for president in 2008. Ryan said a case against Trump could be stronger because the payment to Daniels was made days before the election when she was likely to go public with her story.___ANY CONNECTION TO THE RUSSIA PROBE?Russia's election meddling and the alleged Daniels affair do not appear to be linked. But special counsel Robert Mueller has broad investigative authority, and Cohen has been linked to other aspects of the investigation, including efforts in 2015 to pursue a Trump Tower real estate development in Moscow. If Mueller believed he could leverage Cohen's testimony about Russian matters, he could have reason to look into the payment to Daniels.___WHAT OTHER LAWSUITS ARE INVOLVED?Daniels has filed a lawsuit to free herself from the non-disclosure agreement she signed when she accepted the money. Cohen also is pursuing claims through arbitration against Daniels for violating the non-disclosure agreement. Cohen says Daniels could owe $20 million for violating the agreement. It's possible that if Cohen does not drop the effort, Daniels' lawyer could try to question Trump about the arrangement.___DOES A SITTING PRESIDENT HAVE TO TESTIFY?Probably. The Supreme Court ruled in 1997 that President Bill Clinton was not protected from a civil sexual harassment lawsuit filed in federal court by former Arkansas state employee Paula Jones. The high court has never definitively said whether a president must answer questions in a criminal proceeding, including the kind of grand jury that Mueller has empaneled. But it has suggested he would have to comply. Trump also is facing a defamation lawsuit in a New York court that was filed by Summer Zervos, a former contestant on "The Apprentice." A judge ruled the lawsuit can move forward while the president is in office.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 12:07 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday that a decision had been made on the future of American troops in war-torn Syria and the White House would make it public soon.Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats said the decision was reached at an "all hands on deck" National Security Council meeting on Tuesday.President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable. [nL2N1RG1HN]At the same time, Trump's advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilize areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.AdvertisementTrump said at a news conference the United States would "not rest until ISIS is gone," using an acronym for the militant group. But he also suggested that victory was imminent."It's time," Trump told reporters, when asked if he was inclined to withdraw American forces.The Pentagon and State Department have said a longer term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State's defeat is a lasting one.Advertisement(Reporting by Jonathan Landay; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by David Gregorio)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 10:05 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Latest on President Donald Trump and Syria (all times local):11:10 a.m.The White House says the U.S. military mission to eradicate the Islamic State group in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" but offers no timetable for withdrawal.President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he wants to bring troops home to start rebuilding the U.S.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that the U.S. and its partners remain committed to eliminating the small Islamic State group presence that continues in Syria.Sanders says the administration will continue to consult with allies regarding future plans.Trump discussed Syria in a meeting with his national security team on Tuesday.___9:20 a.m.The director of national intelligence says the White House will announce a decision about U.S. involvement in Syria "relatively soon."AdvertisementDan Coats told reporters Wednesday that top national security officials met Tuesday in an "all hands on deck" meeting and that "some decisions were made."AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we've almost completed that task."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump's comments conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of who spoke at a separate event in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries.__12:11 a.m.President Donald Trump expects to decide very quickly whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission of defeating the Islamic State group is almost completed.Trump's comments at a White House event on Tuesday conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of who spoke at a separate event in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group.Later on Tuesday, Trump met with his national security team to discuss Syria.According to officials familiar with the preparations for the meeting, Trump's entire national security team strongly advised against a hasty withdrawal from Syria. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal talks.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLettersTo the Editor:Re “Network Rediscovers Trump Country With Reboot of ‘Roseanne’ ” (front page, March 30):The premiere of the revived “Roseanne” on Tuesday night was a real breath of fresh air.To many viewers, the show probably seemed decadent and politically incorrect, but it wasn’t at all. It was a much-needed dose of honesty undeterred by the far left’s efforts to ostracize anyone with opposing opinions, and in direct defiance of the mainstream media’s brutally ceaseless anti-Trump narrative.Finally, something other than the same biased opinions over and over again. Finally, another side of the story.The divisive vitriol and blatant partisanship coming from artists, journalists and tech titans are doing nothing to bridge America’s divide.At least Roseanne Barr is attempting to start a conversation, and based on the ratings it appears to be a conversation many Americans want to have.GARY TAUSTINE, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Re “ ‘Roseanne’ Is Funny. And Scary” (Op-Ed, March 30):Kudos to Roxane Gay. Donald Trump ran on a divisive, racist, sexist and xenophobic platform, which still informs his presidency. Roseanne Barr is well aware of that.Enough of whitewashing this under the “I voted for Donald Trump because he talked about jobs,” while children are being separated from their parents under his vile immigration policy.There are lots of other viewing options. Resist!JANIE GROFF, BROOKLYNTo the Editor:Roxane Gay, though seemingly impressed with Roseanne Barr’s critically acclaimed new TV show, lashed out quite harshly at Ms. Barr herself.She missed the point on how the show so aptly chose to navigate and neutralize the political rage on both sides, by confronting and reminding us that heartfelt love and decency resonate more powerfully than anger and bullying.Rather than focusing on the leftover scars from the Trump versus Clinton slugfest, all Americans want their hopes lifted. And the fictitious Roseanne Conner family demonstrated that beautifully.STEVEN COHEN, NEW YORKAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOpEd ContributorBy HengDonald Trump said he was protecting American industry from China when he announced new tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. But experts say the impact on China will be minimal, while instead the United States’s allies in Asia — South Korea, Japan and Taiwan — are likely to take a hit.AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 5:17 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The White House's top infrastructure adviser is leaving the administration as President Donald Trump's plans to inject funding to repair the nation's roads and bridges will most likely have to wait until after the midterm elections.The White House says DJ Gribbin, who formulated the Trump plan released in February, is leaving to pursue other opportunities. Trump's proposal would pair $200 billion in federal funding with state, local, and private investment. According to the White House's calculations, that investment would unleash $1.5 trillion in infrastructure spending over the next decade.Gribbin is the latest departure in a wave of exits — some forced and others voluntary — that have the White House on edge.Trump conceded last week that his plan would probably "have to wait until after the election."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      Compiled by MICHAEL GONCHAR

MARCH 27, 2018

Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows?How well did you follow the news this past week? How many of these 10 questions can you get right?Please note: Our next Weekly News Quiz will publish on April 10.Standing before vast crowds from Washington to Los Angeles to Parkland, Fla., on Saturday, the speakers — nearly all of them  — delivered an anguished and defiant message: They are “done hiding” from gun violence, and will “stop at nothing” to get politicians to finally prevent it.Democratic governorsgrandmothers of gunshot victimsstudents, some still in elementary schoolteachers and college professorsThe  Stephanie Clifford told “60 Minutes” that she struck a $130,000 deal for her silence about an alleged affair with Donald J. Trump in the final days of the 2016 presidential campaign because she was worried about her safety and that of her young daughter.multi-billion-dollar hedge-fund managerOlympic synchronized swimmerpornographic film starTV weather womanPresident Trump, hours after threatening to veto  bill and throwing the capital into turmoil, signed it into law on Friday, yielding to advisers and Republican leaders who urged him against manufacturing a government shutdown crisis.a $1.3 trillion spendinga gun safetyan immigration reforma Russian sanctionsTwo people were killed and five others wounded in a series of bombings centered on , this month. The police have said the attacks are linked, and on Wednesday a man suspected of being the bomber blew himself up as officers approached him.Austin, Tex.Boise, IdahoKansas City, Mo.Memphis, Tenn.President Trump on Thursday imposed tariffs on as much as $60 billion worth of  to combat the rising threat from a nation that the White House has called “an economic enemy.”Chinese goodsGerman carsMexican petroleumRussian technologyHundreds of protesters filled the streets of Sacramento on Thursday, blocking traffic on a major highway and shutting down an arena after  four days earlier.Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents raided several California businesses and arrested dozens of peoplethe Kings defeated the Celtics at the the Golden 1 Centerthe police fatally shot a young black man in his backyardPresident Trump held a rally on the steps of the California State Capitol building President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russians from the United States on Monday, adding to a growing cascade of similar actions taken by Western allies in response to Russia’s alleged .ballot box rigging during the recent Russian presidential electionpoisoning of a former Russian spy in Britainsystematic doping in the recent Winter Olympicstrade with North Korea in violation of United Nations sanctions President Trump named , a former American ambassador to the United Nations, as his third national security adviser on Thursday, continuing a shake-up that creates one of the most hawkish national security teams of any White House in recent history.Stephen BannonJohn BoltonHope HicksAnthony ScaramucciAt least 64 people died when a fire burned through a  in the Siberian city of Kemerovo on Sunday.coal minemunitions factoryshopping mallski resort lodgeThree of the articles below about Facebook were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?Cambridge Analytica Suspends C.E.O. Amid Facebook Data ScandalFacebook’s Role in Data Misuse Sets Off Storms on Two ContinentsHow Calls for Privacy May Upend Business for Facebook and GoogleMark Zuckerberg Promises That Misuse Of Facebook User Data Will Happen Again And Again AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 10:31 A.M. E.D.T.
HOSPERS, Iowa —  In Sioux County, where swine barns interrupt the vast landscape of corn-stubbled fields, exports of meat, grain and machinery fuel the local economy. And there's a palpable sense of unease that new Chinese tariffs pushed by President Donald Trump — who received more than 80 percent of the vote here in 2016 — could threaten residents' livelihood.The grumbling hardly signals a looming leftward lurch in this dominantly Republican region in northwest Iowa. But after standing with Trump through the many trials of his first year, some Sioux County Trump voters say they would be willing to walk away from the president if the fallout from the tariffs causes a lasting downturn in the farm economy."I wouldn't sit here today and say I will definitely support him again," said 60-year-old hog farmer Marv Van Den Top. "This here could be a real negative for him."Last week, Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on a range of Chinese goods, a move aimed at punishing Beijing for stealing American technology. The Chinese government responded with a threat to tag U.S. products, including pork and aluminum, with an equal 25 percent charge.AdvertisementThat sent a chill through places like Sioux County, which ranks first among Iowa's 99 counties in agricultural exports. In 2016, the county sold $350 million in meat, grain, machinery and chemicals overseas. Far closer to the sparsely populated crossroads of South Dakota and Minnesota than Iowa's bustling Des Moines metro area, Sioux County is home to just 34,000 people, but more than 1 million hogs, 6 million chickens and nearly as impressive numbers of cattle and sheep.AdvertisementBrad Te Grootenhuis sells about 25,000 hogs a year and could lose hundreds of thousands of dollars if the tariffs spark a backlash from China. He said it's possible he would abandon Trump if pork's price decline continues and lasts."Any time you're losing money, nobody's happy," the 42-year-old farmer said. "I've got payments to make, plain and simple."Nationally, opinions on Trump's tariffs, which were a central part of his campaign pledges to get tough on China, are mixed.Although GOP congressional leaders have argued tariffs would prompt a trade war and have urged Trump to reverse course, 61 percent of Americans who identify as Republicans nationwide favor a tariff, according to a national poll taken this month by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. Still, 39 percent of Republicans say it will lead to a decrease in jobs, according to the poll, compared to 32 percent who think it will lead to an increase. That's similar to the views of all voters, the survey shows.Countermeasures by China, which is second only to Canada in importing Iowa products, could cause pain across the American agricultural sector, according to economists. For instance, a pork tariff imposed by China, which spent $42 million on Iowa pork products in 2017, would back up the Iowa market and force prices sharply downward.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Retaliatory tariffs from China would have a devastating impact on U.S. agricultural exports, especially if they focus on products like soybeans and hogs," said Adam Kamins, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics. "This puts northwest Iowa and the Great Plains more broadly on the front line in a trade war."For hog farmer Tim Schmidt, the fallout of a geopolitical spat with China would force him to hold off on any new construction or maintenance on the decades-old buildings on his family-run farm along the Missouri River."There is an uncertainty to exactly what the next two to three years are going to look like," Schmidt said. A Trump voter in 2016, Schmidt said that if "things are bad and someone better comes along, we're willing to take a look."AdvertisementSioux County seed dealer Dave Heying echoed a common refrain that any downturn in the farm economy would curb spending throughout the local economy, with direct impact on farm machinery dealers, mechanics and agricultural construction, among other businesses."Protecting our U.S. industries is important, but my concern is, at what expense to the farmer?" Heying said of Trump's trade moves. "It is too early to say whether or not I would support him. These types of decisions give you hesitation."As a presidential candidate, Trump was a somewhat awkward fit for Sioux County, where a third of its residents are members of the Dutch Reformed Church of America, which holds strictly conservative social positions. In striking contrast, the bombastic New Yorker has been married three times and shadowed by allegations of sexual harassment and infidelity.Trump finished fourth in Sioux County in Iowa's Republican presidential caucus, but carried 81.3 percent of the vote in the general election, his second-highest county share in the state. And a large core of voters in Sioux County, where Franklin Roosevelt was the last Democratic presidential candidate to win, remains with Trump, even if the farm economy suffers as a result of his trade policies."You have to have faith in our innovation and entrepreneurialship in this country," said Ed Westra, a grain cooperative manager and Trump devotee. "You've got to think of the big game."___AP polling director Emily Swanson contributed to this report from Washington.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.MARCH 5, 2018
“This is a purely commercial dispute that just spun out of control, and today this dispute has been settled by the judges and the authorities of this country.”ORESTES FINTIKLIS, the majority owner of a hotel in Panama City that won a legal battle to have the Trump Organization removed as managers of the property.A version of this quote appears in print on March 6, 2018, on Page A3 of the New York edition with the headline: Quote of the Day.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 4:36 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The White House is disputing adult film star Stormy Daniels' claim that she was threatened to keep quiet over her alleged affair with Donald Trump and said the president continues to deny the relationship.Daniels' detailed her allegations in a widely watched interview with "60 Minutes" that sparked new legal wrangling between attorneys for the porn star and the president's team. A lawyer for Michael Cohen, Trump's personal attorney, demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client for suggesting he was involved in her intimidation. Daniels responded by filing a revised federal lawsuit accusing Cohen of defamation.Trump, who frequently takes on his foes in person and on social media, remained uncharacteristically quiet about the matter Monday. He sent a cryptic tweet saying "fake news" has "never been more voluminous or more inaccurate" but it was unclear what exactly he was referring to.Instead, he left the denials to his White House staff. Spokesman Raj Shah declined to say whether the president had watched Daniels' interview, but said Trump did not believe any of the claims she made.Advertisement"The president strongly, clearly and has consistently denied these underlying claims, and the only person who's been inconsistent is the one making the claims," Shah said.AdvertisementBut Daniels was on Trump's mind this weekend in Palm Beach, Florida, where he had dinner Saturday night with Cohen at his Mar-a-Lago estate.Trump, according to one person who spent time with him, told guests that Daniels now owes him $21 million for breaking her silence, and that every time she talks, she owes him a million more. Trump appeared in good spirits, laughing off the fact that Daniels will be bringing her "Making America Horny Again" strip show to a nearby venue next month, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to disclose private conversations.Mar-a-Lago member Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax, told ABC Sunday that Trump told him "much of the Stormy Daniels stuff" is a "political hoax."Trump returned to Washington Sunday night, though first lady Melania Trump stayed behind in Florida. A spokeswoman for Mrs. Trump said she is "focused on being a mom and is quite enjoying spring break at Mar-a-Lago while working on future projects."In her interview, Daniels said she'd slept with Trump once, shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to the president's youngest son.  She also said that a man approached her in a Las Vegas parking lot in 2011, when she was with her infant daughter, and threatened her with physical harm if she went public with her story.In a letter late Sunday night, an attorney for Cohen demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client."In truth, Mr. Cohen had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident, and does not even believe that any such person exists, or that such incident ever occurred," wrote Brent H. Blakely. He said Daniels and her lawyer, Michael Avenatti, should "cease and desist from making any further false and defamatory statements about my client."AdvertisementDaniels, in the revised lawsuit she filed Monday, alleges Cohen made a false statement that damaged her reputation when he released a statement in February that intimated she was lying.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a round of television interviews Monday morning, Avenatti said he was holding back certain details of the alleged affair, including the contents of a CD or DVD he tweeted a picture of last week, for strategic reasons. "It would make no sense for us to play our hand as to this issue and we're not going to do it right now," he said on NBC's "Today" show.Daniels received a $130,000 payment days before the 2016 presidential election for her silence and has sought to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement she signed. Cohen has said he paid the $130,000 out of his own pocket while asserting Trump never had sex with the porn actress.Previously, Cohen has said neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment.During Monday's briefing, Shah said neither the White House nor Trump had violated campaign finance laws that restrict political contributions."The White House didn't engage in any wrongdoing," Shah said of Trump's behavior, adding that there was "nothing to corroborate" Daniels' intimidation claims.In the interview, Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with him talking about himself and showing her an issue of a magazine with his picture on the cover.She said she ordered him to drop his pants and, in a playful manner, "I just gave him a couple swats." At one point she said he told her: "Wow, you — you are special. You remind me of my daughter."The interview gave "60 Minutes" its biggest audience in a decade, with slightly more than 22 million viewers tuning in, according to Nielsen Co. estimates.AdvertisementDaniels is not the only woman accusing Trump. Former Playboy model Karen McDougal told Cooper in a CNN interview broadcast Thursday that her affair with Trump began at a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 2006. McDougal said she ended the relationship in 2007 out of guilt concerning Trump's wife, Melania.McDougal has filed suit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election.The lawsuit alleges that McDougal was paid for the rights to her story of an affair, but the story never ran. It also alleges that Cohen was secretly involved in her discussions with American Media.___Associated Press writers Ken Thomas, Kevin Freking and Zeke Miller contributed to this report.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 4:37 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Latest on embattled Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt and the ethical questions surrounding his travel and ties to Washington lobbyists (all times local):4:30 p.m.The White House says President Donald Trump is not OK with recent revelations involving embattled Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt.The statement from spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders came as Pruitt spoke in a series of interviews with Fox News and other conservative media, attempting to shore up his eroding position.Pruitt is denying he knew about big raises given to two of his closest aides while insisting he did nothing wrong in renting a bargain-priced condo tied to an energy lobbyist.Sanders said Wednesday that the White House is reviewing the allegations against Pruitt and declined to confirm reports by The Associated Press and others that the president called Pruitt in recent days to offer support.Advertisement___12:07 a.m.President Donald Trump is offing a measured gesture of support for Environmental Protection Agency Aministrator Scott Pruitt. But those words of encouragement also came with a White House warning about the ethical questions surrounding his travel spending and ties to Washington lobbyists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump told reporters Tuesday, "I hope he's going to be great."  But he declined to reiterate publicly his private praise for Pruitt's work.In a phone call Monday, Trump told the EPA chief that "we've got your back" and urged him to "keep his head up" and "keep fighting," according to two administration officials. Trump's call was quickly followed by one from chief of staff John Kelly, who laid out the White House's displeasure over being caught blindsided by some of the ethical problems raised, according to two other officials.AdvertisementThose officials said the praise referred to Pruitt's work in loosening environmental regulations and his success at getting under the skin of environmental groups. But they added that the tone of Trump's call was not entirely positive.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 10:28 A.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France and the United States are committed to stamping out Islamic State, Emmanuel Macron's office said on Wednesday after the French president spoke with his U.S. counterpart Donald Trump."France and the United States are determined to pursue their actions within the international coalition to fight to the end this terrorist organization," the Elysee Palace said in a statement"Nothing should distract us from the objective of preventing Islamic State's resurgence in the region and allowing an inclusive political process in Syria," it added.(Reporting by Leigh Thomas; editing by Richard Lough)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 7:26 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Consumers getting financial assistance under former President Barack Obama's health care law will pay lower premiums this year, even though the "list price" for their health insurance shot up.That odd result is reflected in a report issued Tuesday by the Trump administration.After federal aid, the average monthly premium paid by subsidized customers on HealthCare.gov is dropping to $89 from last year's $106. That's a 16 percent savings even though the "list price" premium went up about 30 percent, now averaging $639 for those subsidized customers.The bottom line is counterintuitive, but it shows how "Obamacare" subsidies cushion consumers from rising premiums.Seema Verma, head of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, says more affordable health care options are needed for people who aren't eligible for the Affordable Care Act's income-based financial assistance.AdvertisementBut independent analysts say a big part of this year's premium increases is due to actions by the Trump administration, including the cancellation of major payments to insurers.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Insurers jacked up premiums to make up for the loss of federal dollars to cover discounted copays and deductibles that the companies were required to provide to low-income customers. Congressional authorization of the payments was under a legal cloud, and President Donald Trump pulled the plug. Bipartisan efforts to restore the money recently fell apart over disputes about abortion coverage."These numbers show for the first time how the Trump administration's termination of payments to insurers in a sense backfired," said Larry Levitt of the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. "The result, which is a little bizarre, is that consumers eligible for government premium subsidies are actually paying less out of their own pockets for insurance on average than last year."AdvertisementAbout 11.8 million people signed up for coverage this year through HealthCare.gov and state insurance markets, a slight dip from last year.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:37 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump fired Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin and nominated White House doctor Ronny Jackson to replace him following a bruising ethics scandal and a mounting rebellion within the agency.A Navy rear admiral, Jackson is a surprise choice to succeed Shulkin, a former Obama administration official and the first nonveteran to head the VA. Trump had been considering replacing Shulkin for weeks but had not been known to be considering Jackson for the role.In a statement, Trump praised Jackson as "highly trained and qualified." It was a decision that signaled Trump chose to go with someone he knows and trusts, rather than choosing a candidate with a longer resume, to run a massive agency facing huge bureaucratic challenges.Shulkin said he was undone by advocates of privatization within the administration. He wrote in a New York Times opinion piece that they "saw me as an obstacle to privatization who had to be removed." He added: "That is because I am convinced that privatization is a political issue aimed at rewarding select people and companies with profits, even if it undermines care for veterans."AdvertisementJackson has served since 2013 as the physician to the president, one of the people in closest proximity to Trump day in and day out.AdvertisementHis profile rose after he conducted a sweeping press conference about the president's medical exam in January in which he impressed Trump with his camera-ready demeanor and deft navigation of reporters' questions as he delivered a rosy depiction of the president's health, according to a person familiar with the president's thinking but not authorized to discuss private conversations.Jackson eagerly embraced the idea of moving to the VA, according to a White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss personnel matters. Ironically, it was Shulkin who had recommended Jackson for an undersecretary position at the agency in fall. Jackson was vetted during that time on his policy positions and other issues, the official said.The promotion of Jackson marks the latest Trump hire to be driven at least as much by personal familiarity with the president as by his vision for the role at government's second-largest department, responsible for 9 million military veterans in more than 1,700 government-run health facilities.Brig. Gen. Dr. Richard Tubb, who trained Jackson, said in a letter read at Jackson's briefing that the doctor had been attached like "Velcro" to Trump since Inauguration Day."On any given day," he wrote, "the 'physician's office,' as it is known, is generally the first and last to see the President."A White House official said Shulkin was informed of his dismissal by chief of staff John Kelly before the president announced the move on Twitter on Wednesday.A major veterans' organization expressed concern over Shulkin's dismissal and Trump's intention to nominate Jackson, whom they worried lacked experience to run the huge department.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We are disappointed and already quite concerned about this nominee," said Joe Chenelly, the national executive director of AMVETS. "The administration needs to be ready to prove that he's qualified to run such a massive agency, a $200 billion bureaucracy."AdvertisementRep. Phil Roe, chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, said he believed Shulkin did a "fantastic job" and didn't think he should have been dismissed, but "at the end of the day, Cabinet secretaries serve at the pleasure of the president.""I respect President Trump's decision, support the president's agenda and remain willing to work with anyone committed to doing the right thing on behalf of our nation's veterans," said Roe, a Republican from Tennessee.Shulkin is the second Cabinet secretary to depart over controversies involving expensive travel, following Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price's resignation last September. Trump said in a statement he is "grateful" for Shulkin's service.Shulkin had agreed to reimburse the government more than $4,000 after the VA's internal watchdog concluded last month that he had improperly accepted Wimbledon tennis tickets and that his then-chief of staff had doctored emails to justify his wife traveling to Europe with him at taxpayer expense. Shulkin also blamed internal drama at the agency on a half-dozen or so rebellious political appointees, insisting he had White House backing to fire them.But the continuing VA infighting and a fresh raft of watchdog reports documenting leadership failures and spending waste — as well as fresh allegations that Shulkin had used a member of his security detail to run personal errands — proved too much of a distraction.It was the latest in a series of departures of top administration officials, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and national security adviser H.R. McMaster.The VA change comes as Trump is trying to expand the Veterans Choice program, fulfilling a campaign promise that major veterans' groups worry could be an unwanted step toward privatizing VA health care. His plan remains in limbo in Congress.Having pushed through legislation in Trump's first year making it easier to fire bad VA employees and speed disability appeals, Shulkin leaves behind a department in disarray. Several projects remain unfinished, including a multibillion-dollar overhaul of electronic medical records aimed at speeding up wait times for veterans seeking medical care as well as expanded mental health treatment for veterans at higher risk of suicide.Trump selected Robert Wilkie, undersecretary of defense for personnel and readiness, to serve as the acting head of the VA.Advertisement___Associated Press writers Jill Colvin and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:05 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Investigators probing whether Donald Trump's presidential campaign colluded with Russia have been questioning witnesses about events at the 2016 Republican National Convention, according to two sources familiar with Special Counsel Robert Mueller's inquiries.Mueller's team has been asking about a convention-related event attended by both Russia's U.S. ambassador and Jeff Sessions, the first U.S. senator to support Trump and now his attorney general, said one source, who requested anonymity due to the ongoing investigation.Another issue Mueller's team has been asking about is how and why Republican Party platform language hostile to Russia was deleted from a section of the document related to Ukraine, said another source who also requested anonymity.Mueller's interest in what happened at the Republican convention in Cleveland, Ohio in July 2016, is an indication that Trump campaign contacts and actions related to Russia remain central to the special counsel's investigation.AdvertisementTrump, who was nominated as the Republican Party candidate for the November 2016 election during the convention, has denied any collusion with Russia during the campaign. Moscow has denied U.S. intelligence agencies' findings that it interfered in the campaign to try to tilt the election in Trump's favor.AdvertisementInvestigators have asked detailed questions about conversations that Sessions, then a Trump campaign adviser, had at a convention event attended by then-Russian Ambassador to the United States Sergei Kislyak, said the first source, who was questioned by Mueller about the event.The same source said Mueller's team also has been asking whether Sessions had private discussions with Kislyak on the sidelines of a campaign speech Trump gave at Washington's Mayflower Hotel in April 2016.Sessions' spokespersons have denied repeatedly that he had any private discussions with Kislyak at the Mayflower. Sessions told lawmakers last year he could not recall any conversations with Russian officials at the hotel but could not rule out that a "brief interaction" with Kislyak may have occurred there.Spokespersons for Mueller and Sessions declined to comment on Mueller's interest in Sessions' activities at the convention and other convention-related events.UKRAINE LANGUAGEThe special counsel's investigators have also interviewed attendees of the committee meetings that drafted the Republican Party platform in Cleveland.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At one committee meeting, according to people in attendance, Diana Denman, a member of the platform committee's national security subcommittee, proposed language calling for the United States to supply "lethal defensive weapons to Ukraine's armed forces and greater coordination with NATO on defense planning."But the final platform language deleted the reference to "lethal defensive weapons," a change that made the platform less hostile to Russia, whose troops had invaded the Crimean peninsula and eastern Ukraine.After the convention, Denman told Reuters in 2016, J.D. Gordon, a Trump foreign policy adviser, told her he was going to speak to Trump about the language on Ukraine, and that Trump's campaign team played a direct role in softening the platform language.AdvertisementThe Trump campaign has denied playing any role in the weakening of the party's position regarding Ukraine. Gordon has called Denman's version of events "inaccurate."Stephen Yates, co-chair of the platform committee's national security subcommittee, said he has "heard nothing about other members of the subcommittee being called in for questioning, and I have had no interaction with anyone working on the investigation."Sessions recused himself last year from the federal probe into Russian election meddling after it emerged that he had failed to say during his Senate confirmation hearing to be attorney general that he had met with Russia's ambassador in 2016.(This version of the story corrects paragraph 8 to show Sessions did not rule out a "brief interaction" with Kislyak instead of he admitted to speaking briefly to Kislyak)(Reporting By Mark Hosenball; Editing by John Walcott and Frances Kerry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 12:38 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The White House on Monday disputed adult film star Stormy Daniels' claim that she was threatened to keep quiet over her alleged affair with Donald Trump and said the president continues to deny the relationship.Daniels' detailed her allegations in a widely watched interview with "60 Minutes" that sparked new legal wrangling between attorneys for the porn star and the president's team. A lawyer for Michael Cohen, Trump's personal attorney, demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client for suggesting he was involved in her intimidation. Daniels responded by filing a revised federal lawsuit accusing Cohen of defamation.Trump, who frequently takes on his foes in person and on social media, remained uncharacteristically quiet about the matter Monday. He sent a cryptic tweet saying "fake news" has "never been more voluminous or more inaccurate" but it was unclear what exactly he was referring to.Instead, he left the denials to his White House staff. Spokesman Raj Shah declined to say whether the president had watched Daniels' interview, but said Trump did not believe any of the claims she made.Advertisement"The president strongly, clearly and has consistently denied these underlying claims, and the only person who's been inconsistent is the one making the claims," Shah said.AdvertisementBut Daniels was on Trump's mind this weekend in Palm Beach, Florida, where he had dinner Saturday night with Cohen at his Mar-a-Lago estate.Trump, according to one person who spent time with him, told guests that Daniels now owes him $21 million for breaking her silence, and that every time she talks, she owes him a million more. Trump appeared in good spirits, laughing off the fact that Daniels will be bringing her "Making America Horny Again" strip show to a nearby venue next month, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to disclose private conversations.Mar-a-Lago member Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax, told ABC Sunday that Trump told him "much of the Stormy Daniels stuff" is a "political hoax."Trump returned to Washington Sunday night, though first lady Melania Trump stayed behind in Florida. A spokeswoman for Mrs. Trump said she is "focused on being a mom and is quite enjoying spring break at Mar-a-Lago while working on future projects."In her interview, Daniels said she'd slept with Trump once, shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to the president's youngest son.  She also said that a man approached her in a Las Vegas parking lot in 2011, when she was with her infant daughter, and threatened her with physical harm if she went public with her story.In a letter late Sunday night, an attorney for Cohen demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client."In truth, Mr. Cohen had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident, and does not even believe that any such person exists, or that such incident ever occurred," wrote Brent H. Blakely. He said Daniels and her lawyer, Michael Avenatti, should "cease and desist from making any further false and defamatory statements about my client."AdvertisementDaniels, in the revised lawsuit she filed Monday, alleges Cohen made a false statement that damaged her reputation when he released a statement in February that intimated she was lying.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a round of television interviews Monday morning, Avenatti said he was holding back certain details of the alleged affair, including the contents of a CD or DVD he tweeted a picture of last week, for strategic reasons. "It would make no sense for us to play our hand as to this issue and we're not going to do it right now," he said on NBC's "Today" show.Daniels received a $130,000 payment days before the 2016 presidential election for her silence and has sought to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement she signed. Cohen has said he paid the $130,000 out of his own pocket while asserting Trump never had sex with the porn actress.Previously, Cohen has said neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment.During Monday's briefing, Shah said neither the White House nor Trump had violated campaign finance laws that restrict political contributions."The White House didn't engage in any wrongdoing," Shah said of Trump's behavior, adding that there was "nothing to corroborate" Daniels' intimidation claims.In the interview, Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with him talking about himself and showing her an issue of a magazine with his picture on the cover.She said she ordered him to drop his pants and, in a playful manner, "I just gave him a couple swats." At one point she said he told her: "Wow, you — you are special. You remind me of my daughter."The interview gave "60 Minutes" its biggest audience in a decade, with slightly more than 22 million viewers tuning in, according to Nielsen Co. estimates.AdvertisementDaniels is not the only woman accusing Trump. Former Playboy model Karen McDougal told Cooper in a CNN interview broadcast Thursday that her affair with Trump began at a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 2006. McDougal said she ended the relationship in 2007 out of guilt concerning Trump's wife, Melania.McDougal has filed suit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election.The lawsuit alleges that McDougal was paid for the rights to her story of an affair, but the story never ran. It also alleges that Cohen was secretly involved in her discussions with American Media.___Associated Press writers Ken Thomas, Kevin Freking and Zeke Miller contributed to this report.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 12:55 P.M. E.D.T.
TEGUCIGALPA —  A top Honduran official on Tuesday rejected President Donald Trump's threat to cut U.S. foreign aid unless a so-called caravan of more than 1,000 Central American migrants headed to the U.S. border with Mexico is stopped."We don't know what President Trump is talking about when he says that Honduras doesn't do anything" to stop illegal immigration, presidential spokesman Ebal Diaz said on a local TV program."I think he is not well informed, I think he is unfairly using Honduras in a political debate he has with the U.S. Congress," Diaz said, adding that Honduras deserved respect.Trump threatened in a Twitter post on Tuesday to cut off aid to Honduras in his latest criticism of the migrant caravan that set off from Mexico's southern border with Central America late last month.AdvertisementThe U.S. president has stepped up his immigration rhetoric in recent days and his administration has moved to further crack down on people who are in the United States illegally.Advertisement"The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our 'Weak Laws' Border, had better be stopped before it gets there. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!" Trump wrote on Twitter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Organized caravans of predominantly Central American migrants, including many escaping drug and gang-related violence in Honduras, have crossed Mexico since 2010, according to Mexico's government."The causes of immigration are violence, drug violence, drug trafficking. What has President Trump done to reduce the demand for the drugs that enters that market (in the United States) that generates violence in our country?," said Diaz.Honduras’ murder rate has been falling steadily in recent years, after hitting 85.5 murders per 100,000 people in 2011. Nonetheless, Honduras remains one of the world’s deadliest peacetime nations."We appreciate the help from the United States but we deserve respect as a nation ... Honduras will continue to grow, with or without the support of President Trump," said Diaz.(Reporting by Gustavo Palencia; Writing by Anthony Esposito and Tom Brown)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 8:21 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Latest on former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin. (all times local):8 a.m.Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin describes his would-be successor as "a very honorable man who wants to do the right thing."Trump announced last week that he was choosing his personal physician, Dr. Ronny Jackson, to lead the massive Department of Veterans Affairs.The White House and Shulkin have since waged a public campaign about whether or not Shulkin was fired. He says yes. The White House says no.Shulkin was asked on CNN whether he was concerned about Jackson's lack of managerial experience. Shulkin says "I have comfort because I know Dr. Jackson."AdvertisementShulkin says the job of transforming the VA is no doubt challenging, but the key will be surrounding Jackson with a good team because "no one person can do this alone."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___12:57 a.m.The White House is hitting back at former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin for claiming that he was fired from his job and that he was only informed about it shortly before President Donald Trump tweeted about his replacement.AdvertisementThe Trump administration says he left his job willingly amid a bruising ethics scandal and mounting rebellion within the agency. The semantics of whether Shulkin resigned or was fired could be relevant to Trump's ability to name an acting secretary to temporarily fill his place.On Sunday, chagrined by Shulkin's public statements blaming his ouster on unfair "political forces" in the Trump administration, the White House circulated a "talking points" memo to some veterans groups in a bid to discredit him.Shulkin maintains that he never submitted a resignation letter.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 5:29 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  As Republicans run into a buzz saw of conservative criticism over a deficit-expanding new budget, GOP leaders and the White House are looking for ways to undo the damage by allowing President Donald Trump to rescind some of the spending he signed into law just 10 days ago.Rolling back the funds would be a highly unusual move and could put some lawmakers in the potentially uncomfortable position of having to vote for specific spending opposed by a president from their party. But it would also offer Republicans a way to save face amid the backlash over the bill that conservatives, and Trump himself, complain gives too much money for Democratic priorities.Trump has been talking with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., about the plan over the past couple of days, according to an aide to the House leader who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the private talks. It is not clear how widely the idea has been embraced by other top Republicans, including House Speaker Paul Ryan or Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, whose offices declined to discuss it."There are conversations right now," said Matt Sparks, a spokesman for McCarthy. "The administration and Congress and McCarthy are talking about it."AdvertisementThe idea emerged as lawmakers get hammered back home for the $1.3 trillion spending package that, while beefing up funds for the military, also increases spending on transportation, child care and other domestic programs in a compromise with Democrats that Trump derided as a "waste" and "giveaways."AdvertisementTrump's decision to sign the bill into law, after openly toying with a veto, has not quelled the unrest and may have helped fuel it."People are mad as hell about it and mad as hell that they put the president in that situation — that he sign the bill or shut the government down," said Amy Kremer, a founder of the tea party and co-chairman of Women for Trump.Kremer said Republicans in Congress have lost sight of the voters who propelled them to the majority on an agenda of fiscal restraint. "They are no better than the Democrats," she said.Lawmakers home on spring recess are feeling the brunt of the criticism. Rep. Mark Amodei, R-Nev., said he encountered a finger-wagging voter back home almost as soon as he stepped off the airplane.Fox News host Sean Hannity asked, "What happened to the Republican Party?" after Trump signed the bill. "Republicans should be ashamed of themselves," he added.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In some ways, the rescission proposal is as close as Trump can get to the line-item veto, which he called on Congress to enact even though the Supreme Court decided in 1998 that it would violate the authority the Constitution gives Congress on legislation.The idea centers on a rarely used provision of the 1974 Congressional Budget and Impound Control Act. It allows the White House to propose rescinding funds and sets a 45-day clock for the House and Senate to vote.Congress could simply ignore the president's request and keep the funds in place.Sparks didn't specify how much spending could be rescinded or in what categories. But Trump would likely seek to focus on domestic spending he has attacked in recent tweets.AdvertisementTrump has been particularly upset the package did not include $25 billion he sought for the border wall with Mexico, even after the bill burst through previously set budget caps for military and domestic spending.Ryan and Trump have not yet talked this week, an aide to the speaker said, but likely will by week's end.Voting, though, could be difficult, even for fiscally conservative Republicans, since Trump's targets may be popular projects or programs back home, said Gordon Gray, the director of Fiscal Policy at the center-right American Action Forum, who notes the rescission tool is not as popular as it was when introduced in the Nixon era more than 40 years ago.Passage would not be certain, especially in the Senate, where Republicans hold a slim 51-49 majority.____We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 7:13 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  U.S. President Donald Trump's strategy for dealing with illegal immigration coming through the border with Mexico includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said in a statement on Tuesday.The statement followed a meeting at the White House attended by Trump, Defense Secretary James Mattis, Homeland Security Secretary Kirsten Nielsen, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Joseph Dunford.(Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 9:21 P.M. E.D.T.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Wednesday:1. KIM JONG UN TRAVELS TO BEIJINGNorth Korea's reclusive leader meets with China's president in his first known trip to a foreign country since he took power in 2011.2. WHAT'S WELCOME NEWS FOR WHITE HOUSEA growing American economy and passage of a Republican tax overhaul appear to be helping Trump lift his approval ratings from historic lows.3. FORMER MICHIGAN STATE DEAN CHARGEDThe university's sexual abuse scandal widens as an ex-dean is accused not only of failing to keep disgraced sports doctor Larry Nassar in line but of preying on female students.4. WHY DEMOCRATS ARE CRYING FOULThe Trump administration's decision to ask people about their citizenship on the 2020 census stokes fear that immigrants will dodge the survey altogether, diluting political representation for states that tend to vote Democratic.Advertisement5. EARLY ON, MOVE MADE TO REIN IN WEINSTEINThe Hollywood mogul's assistant says she tried to stop him abusing women two decades ago, making him sign a legal agreement that required him to seek therapy.Advertisement6. WHOSE MONEY TRUMP MIGHT TAPThe president floats the idea of using the U.S. military's budget to pay for his long-promised border wall with Mexico.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.7. 'MOST OF THE YOUTH SEE THIS AS A FARCE'With the outcome not in doubt, officials are using a mixture of incentives, bullying and cajoling to try to boost turnout in Egypt's election.8. FRESH DELAY FOR NASA'S EYE IN SKYThe agency is again pushing back the launch of its next-generation space telescope — its highest science priority — until at least 2020.9. 'ROSEANNE' BACK ON THE AIRThe TV reboot picks up where the show left off in 1997, with one notable difference — Roseanne and her sister Jackie, played by Laurie Metcalf, can't agree on Trump.10. WHICH MESS NFL IS CLEANING UPThe league simplifies the infamous catch rule to eliminate confusion — and, the league hopes, controversy about receptions.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 8:49 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's strategy for the U.S.-Mexico border includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said on Tuesday, after Trump had earlier spoken publicly to reporters about "guarding our border with the military" to stop illegal immigrants.The White House statement was released after Trump met with Defense Secretary James Mattis, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and other officials on border issues. It gave no details on whether or when Trump's strategy might be implemented.The National Guard, part of the U.S. military's reserve forces, has been used in recent years for surveillance and intelligence on the border, but not direct law enforcement.The president's earlier remarks sharpened his recurring anti-immigration rhetoric. He said he wanted to deploy U.S. military forces until his long-promised border wall is built.Advertisement"Until we can have a wall and proper security we’re going to be guarding our border with the military," Trump told reporters at the White House, lamenting what he called "horrible" U.S. laws that left the southern border poorly protected.AdvertisementTrump railed against a "caravan" of Central American migrants traveling from the Mexico-Guatemala border in the last 10 days toward the United States, journeys that have occurred annually since 2010 in an effort to draw attention to the plight of people fleeing violence in their countries.On Tuesday night, Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said on Twitter that the caravan "dispersed gradually and at the decision of its participants." Mexican officials say privately that they believe Trump has exaggerated the caravan's importance to renew pressure on Mexico over the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement.After 14 months in office, Trump still hammers regularly on an anti-immigration theme that helped to energize conservative  Republican voters who helped him win the presidency in the 2016 election. Trump took a hard line on illegal immigration during the campaign and has also sought to curtail legal immigration.His efforts have thus far failed to produce a comprehensive overhaul of America's immigration laws or full funding for his border wall in the Republican-led Congress. No major legislation was expected before November's congressional elections.LEGAL QUESTIONS RAISEDHis latest comments immediately raised questions in Congress and among legal experts about troop deployments on U.S. soil.The Posse Comitatus Act, a federal law on the books since the 1870s, restricts using the U.S. Army and other main branches of the military for civilian law enforcement on U.S. soil, unless specifically authorized by Congress.But the military can provide support services to law enforcement and has done so on occasion since the 1980s.AdvertisementUnder Republican President George W. Bush, the National Guard between 2006 and 2008 provided border-related intelligence analysis, but had no direct law enforcement role.In 2010, President Barack Obama sent National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexican border to provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support to U.S. Border Patrol agents.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some specific statutes authorize the president to deploy troops within the United States for riot control or relief efforts after natural disasters."The details really matter here," said Stephen Vladeck, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law."The real question is going to be if the president is serious about this, what kind of legal arguments do we get out of the White House and the Pentagon for such a deployment."A senior Republican aide in the U.S. House of Representatives said key lawmakers had not been briefed on the White House plan. The aide said there was no indication that a specific plan had even been formulated yet.Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico's ambassador in Washington, said he had spoken to U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen about Trump's remarks on the border and that Mexico had formally asked the U.S. government to clarify them."It's certainly not something that the Mexican government welcomes," Gutierrez told CNN.Nielsen, who took part in the meeting with Trump, said in a Twitter message late on Tuesday that she had been told by  Mexican officials "the caravan is dissipating."In southern Mexico, officials screened the dwindling number of hundreds of largely Central American migrants on Tuesday.AdvertisementAt a campaign rally, Mexican leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is leading most polls by double digits before the July 1 presidential election, said that if the U.S. government militarizes the border, thousands of his supporters would protest by forming a "big human chain of Mexicans for peace."Some members of Congress said they were uncomfortable with the idea of using the military at the border.Democratic Senator Brian Schatz said Trump should have to seek approval from Congress for any such troop deployment. "We should put that new law to a vote in the Senate," he said on Twitter. “I predict fewer than 20 votes."In a Twitter post earlier on Tuesday, Trump said the caravan "heading to our 'Weak Laws' Border, had better be stopped before it gets there. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!" Congress is on vacation until next week.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Susan Heavey, Makini Brice, Amanda Becker, Richard Cowan, Eric Beech, Mohammad Zargham and Phil Stewart in Washington; Karen Freifeld in New York and the Mexico City newsroom; Writing by John Whitesides; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:Re “New Policy Lets Transgender Troops Stay in Service, but With Restrictions” (news article, March 24): Our children are being shot to death in their schools. We are destroying the environment. Our infrastructure is crumbling. Millions of Americans run out of food between paychecks. Health care and higher education are out of reach of many. But the Trump administration’s priority is to enact a policy that humiliates and demeans citizens who wish to serve their country. I find it revolting.SUSAN RAPPOPORTFALLBROOK, CALIF.AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 7:04 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Stormy Daniels sued Donald Trump's lawyer Michael Cohen on Monday for defamation, according to court documents, escalating a legal battle between the American president and the porn star that the White House was struggling to contain.Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, made the claim a day after her widely watched TV interview on "60 Minutes" on CBS. Daniels said she was threatened with violence to keep quiet about her alleged 2006 tryst with Trump.At the White House, a spokesman in a briefing with reporters cast aspersions on her account. The White House has denied allegations that Trump had a sexual relationship with Daniels.CBS Corp said the show drew its biggest audience in more than eight years, with 21.3 million Americans tuning in, more than double the previous week's edition of "60 Minutes."AdvertisementPresidential spokesman Raj Shah told the briefing, "The president doesn't believe any of the claims Ms. Daniels made in the interview last night were accurate."AdvertisementAsked if Trump believed Daniels was threatened, Shah said, "No, he does not. ... There's nothing to corroborate her claim."Daniels' "60 Minutes" appearance also drew a denial from the president's personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, that he was involved in the alleged threat of violence against her.Daniels originally sued Trump on March 6, saying he never signed an agreement for her to stay silent about what she called their "intimate" relationship. Monday's filing in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles amended the original lawsuit to say Daniels was defamed.Her attorney, Michael Avenatti, said Cohen "meant to convey that Ms. Clifford is a liar, someone who should not be trusted, and that her claims about her relationship with Mr. Trump" were not true.Daniels' defamation allegation was based on a Feb. 13 statement by Cohen that she said hurt her reputation.The latest filing also said $130,000 Cohen paid Daniels in October 2016 just before the presidential election to secure her silence amounted to an illegal campaign contribution, and that the agreement should be declared void.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Cohen has said he paid Daniels out of his own pocket, but has not explained why or if Trump was aware of the payment.In filings with the Justice Department and Federal Election Commission, watchdog groups have said the $130,000 may have exceeded campaign contribution limits, violating U.S. law. Cohen has denied this.AdvertisementCalifornia attorney Michael Overing, who specializes in defamation law, said it would be difficult for Daniels to prevail on her defamation claim because she is a public figure.To prove libel, she would have to show that a false statement was made with either reckless or purposeful disregard for the truth, Overing said.Trump attorney Cohen's denial of involvement in the alleged threat against Daniels came in a "cease-and-desist" letter sent to Avenatti shortly after "60 Minutes" aired that demanded a retraction and an apology. A copy of the letter was seen by Reuters on Monday.The letter said, "Mr. Cohen had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident, and does not even believe that any such person exists, or that such incident ever occurred."Daniels said the threat of harm was made by a stranger in a Las Vegas parking lot in 2011.Avenatti said on NBC on Monday that the man who threatened her while she was with her infant daughter was not Cohen, but "had to be someone that is related to Mr. Trump or Mr. Cohen."Last week CNN interviewed former Playboy model Karen McDougal, who described a 10-month affair with Trump starting in 2006.Trump was married to his wife, Melania, during both alleged relationships. In addition to denying Trump had sex with Daniels, the White House has said he denies having an affair with McDougal.(Reporting by Lisa Lambert and Makini Brice; Additional reporting by Jan Wolfe; Editing by Jonathan Oatis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 7:27 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  With a handshake and a presidential kiss on the cheek, Hope Hicks bid farewell to the White House on Thursday, the press-shy communications director taking a rare moment in the spotlight on her final day in Donald Trump's administration.The exit of the president's most trusted aide, coming one day after yet another Cabinet departure, highlights continuing uncertainty among Trump aides and White House staff about who might be the next to go.Hicks departed the administration on her own terms and was given a gracious goodbye by Trump outside the Oval Office in view of reporters. That stands in stark contrast to the White House treatment of David Shulkin, the Veterans Affairs secretary who was fired amid ethics questions and replaced by a White House physician who has no experience running a bureaucracy or working with veterans.As Trump allies defended the choice of Navy Rear Adm. Ronny Jackson, scrutiny quickly shifted to a number of other Cabinet members facing ethics questions and with strained relationships with the president, as well as a White House chief of staff who has found his influence diminished. Trump aides and outside advisers suggested that other changes weren't imminent, but no one could say how long that would last.Advertisement"I'll have to get back to you on that," said deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters when asked on Air Force One if Trump now had his ideal Cabinet.AdvertisementWhite House officials are apprehensive about Hicks' departure, given her unrivaled position in the president's orbit. Despite her title as communications director title, Hicks was more accurately described by White House officials as Trump's right-hand-woman and media gatekeeper, providing needed doses of affirmation to the president and able to deliver bad news to him with few repercussions.The internal jockeying to replace her — if Trump even chooses to do so — has featured backstabbing and planted news stories that, in turn, bash the leading candidates: Mercedes Schlapp, the White House strategic communications director, and Tony Sayegh, assistant secretary for public affairs at the Treasury Department.Many close to the White House, however, expect senior adviser Kellyanne Conway or press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders to assume the role, at least temporarily. Sanders has grown close to the president since taking over the press secretary's job after the resignation of Sean Spicer last summer — and has been spending more time in the Oval Office lately.The job of communications director — which involves developing and executing the administration's long-term messaging strategy — has never been a particularly important one to the president. Aides joke he is his own communications director, who upends carefully laid plans with a tweet or digression.Trump, never disciplined, has taken to freelancing more of late, as he moves to surround himself with aides less likely to try to rein him in. A speech outside Cleveland on Thursday meant to be about infrastructure instead felt like a campaign rally. And he has broken free of more of the restraints placed upon him by chief of staff John Kelly.Trump hired John Bolton as national security adviser last week over Kelly's objections and didn't include his chief of staff in the Oval Office meeting in which the job offer was extended. And Kelly, who frequently listens in on the president's calls, was not on the call Trump made from the White House residence earlier this month during which, over staff objections, he congratulated Russian President Vladimir Putin on his re-election.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Though Kelly's job did not appear to be in danger, Trump has mused to outside allies of late about setting a West Wing structure with no chief of staff, reminiscent of his Trump Tower operation.Aides said controversies around Trump's staff need to hit a certain decibel level to get the president's attention.AdvertisementIn the case of Shulkin, who was found to have inappropriately accepted gifts and travel, his parting came as he was under fire from all corners, including GOP-leaning veterans groups and good-government watchdogs. And Trump himself vented to confidants that the questions surrounding Shulkin undermined his campaign promise to help veterans, according to three White House officials and outside advisers who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss personnel matters.Officials said ethical questions swirling around other Cabinet members are not attracting the attention of the president in the same manner but caution that could change quickly.Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson came under scrutiny after reports his agency was spending $31,000 for a new dining set. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt has faced questions about $25,000 spent on a soundproof "privacy booth" inside his office to prevent eavesdropping on his phone calls and another $9,000 on biometric locks.White House ethics officials, directed by Kelly, have warned Carson, Pruitt and others that further negative attention could change the dynamic and send them packing. But another Cabinet member, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, may have inadvertently stepped into Trump's line of fire this week.Trump has been livid at Sessions for months for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, belittling him publicly and privately but not yet moving to dismiss him. But Sessions on Thursday appeared on the cover of Time magazine, Trump's favorite publication.Trump has been known to boast about his appearances on Time covers — fake ones have been installed at his golf courses — and was angry last year when former chief strategist Steve Bannon appeared on one. One Trump ally said the president has previously said, only half-jokingly, that he should appear on the cover every week.___Lemire reported from New York. Associated Press writer Jill Colvin contributed to this report.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Miller at http://twitter.com/@zekejmillerWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:32 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Japan will have little choice but to enter into a bilateral trade deal with the United States similar to one President Donald Trump clinched with South Korea, a former top Japanese currency diplomat said.Naoyuki Shinohara, who was also deputy managing director at the International Monetary Fund, said Washington will keep pushing for a bilateral free trade agreement (FTA) with Japan given Trump's "America First" agenda - and Tokyo's calls to use a multilateral framework will only buy it some time."The United States is only interested in a bilateral deal and probably won't listen to Japanese calls for a multilateral approach on trade," said Shinohara, who retains close contact with international financial diplomats."Japan will eventually have to enter FTA talks" and face U.S. pressure to open up its auto and farm markets, he told Reuters on Friday.AdvertisementGlobal markets were shaken this month when Trump moved to impose tariffs on Chinese goods and Beijing threatened similar measures, stoking fears of a global trade war.AdvertisementShinohara said there was a small but real risk of a United States-China trade war, which could spiral out of control given Trump's unpredictability."A trade war is a worse-case scenario and doesn't make economic sense as both sides will lose. But once there's a war, it's hard to stop shooting. The possibility is small but not unthinkable," he said.An escalating trade spat could spread, including to Japan, said Shinohara, currently a professor at a University of Tokyo research institute.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.SIMILAR APPROACH SEENJapanese policymakers worry that Trump could use a similar approach to what he took with South Korea, which agreed on a trade pact with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation.Shinohara, who coordinated Asian policies during his IMF stint, said there was a "pretty good chance" Washington will make similar demands to Japan - entering talks for a bilateral FTA, with a side deal on currencies.Trump will use such talks to demand more U.S. access to Japan's auto and highly-protected agricultural markets, he added.Japan and the United States remain at loggerheads on how to frame trade talks, with Tokyo pushing back against U.S. calls for negotiations on a bilateral FTA.Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso has ruled out opening up talks for a bilateral trade deal, stressing that this would do no good for Japan.Trade will likely feature as a topic when Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe hold a summit next month.Advertisement(Reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Richard Borsuk)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:29 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  The Bank of Japan could face criticism from U.S. President Donald Trump as keeping the yen artificially weak if it persists in maintaining ultra-loose policy until its elusive inflation target is met, Japan's former top currency diplomat said.Rather than considering its target as a rigid one, the BOJ should communicate by the end of this year a plan on when and how it could whittle down its massive stimulus programme, Hiroshi Watanabe said on Thursday.Watanabe, who retains close contact with international financial diplomats, said the BOJ may struggle to justify its policy of capping yields at zero with the economy in good shape and the job market near full employment."The BOJ may say it's capping yields at zero because inflation is distant from its 2 percent target. But if the economy is growing at, say 1.3 or 1.4 percent, the United States may not buy that argument," Watanabe told Reuters.Advertisement"Keeping yields at zero for too long could draw U.S. calls the BOJ is focusing more on currencies rather than inflation. The United States may not say directly the BOJ is resorting to currency manipulation, but could signal as such."AdvertisementJapan is safe now but could face such criticism from Trump if the dollar rises to around 115 yen and U.S.-Japanese interest rate differentials widen to around 350 basis points, he said."The BOJ should be mindful that at some point, the United States could argue that it's using monetary policy" to keep the yen weak, Watanabe added.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The dollar is currently around 106 yen.Global markets were shaken this month when Trump moved to impose tariffs on Chinese goods and Beijing threatened similar measures, stoking fears of a global trade war and bolstering demand for the safe-haven yen.Japanese policymakers worry that Trump could use a similar approach he took against South Korea, which agreed on a trade pact with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation.The BOJ deployed a massive asset-buying programme in 2013 to achieve its 2 percent inflation target, which helped reflate growth by boosting manufacturers' profits via a weak yen.With inflation still distant from its target, however, the BOJ revamped its policy framework to one targeting interest rates from the pace of money printing. It now guides short-term rates at minus 0.1 percent and long-term rates around zero percent.The BOJ argues its policy is aimed at hitting its price goal and not at weakening the yen, though Trump had accused Japan in the past of using "money supply" to devalue its currency.(Additional reporting by Yoshifumi Takemoto; Editing by Kim Coghill)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Best of Late Night By                     
 GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
 
MARCH 27, 2018
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Stephen Colbert on Monday was eager to dig into Anderson Cooper’s “60 Minutes” interview with Stephanie Clifford, the former pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels. Colbert was thrilled to hear Clifford’s account of her alleged affair with President Trump — but even the juiciest details didn’t shock him.“The interview covered everything: The president had sex with a porn star, she spanked him with a magazine with his face on it, he didn’t wear a condom, later they watched ‘Shark Week,’ then his lawyer paid her to keep her mouth shut, and now Trump’s suing this porn star for $20 million. It’s an insane, salacious tale about a sitting president — and the least surprising story I have ever heard.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“It all felt real, it all felt true. That felt truer than him getting elected.” — STEPHEN COLBERTAt one point in the interview, Clifford described turning the tables on Trump. Early in their first romantic encounter, she said, she suggested the president should stop talking about himself as much, and spanked him with a magazine featuring his photograph. After that, she said, Trump opened up to her, and started acting “more appropriate.”“Hmm, a couple of spanks and Donald Trump started acting more appropriate. John Kelly, you know what to do.” — STEPHEN COLBERTTrevor Noah had his own thought about who might have been watching.“You know Bob Mueller is watching this interview, right? You know that. Now he’s going to walk into the interrogation room with a rolled-up magazine, like, ‘O.K., Donald, time to talk about Russia.’” — TREVOR NOAHHere’s Colbert on the moment when, according to Clifford, Trump told her that she reminded him of his daughter Ivanka.“Wow, that is awkward. But not nearly as awkward as when he said to Ivanka, ‘Honey, you remind me of this porn star I had sex with.’” — STEPHEN COLBERTAdvertisementJames Corden gave his own take on the interview — which he described as the first time for many men that “they had watched Stormy Daniels without having to immediately delete their browser history.” He focused on Clifford’s statement that she had not been physically attracted to Trump.“She wasn’t physically attracted to him, which if you think about it is actually scarier. Can you imagine liking Trump for his personality?” — JAMES CORDENAdvertisementThen Corden poked fun at Trump for a tweet on Monday morning that seemed to come in response to Clifford’s interview. Corden was struck by Trump’s literary vocabulary.
            So much Fake News. Never been more voluminous or more inaccurate. But through it all, our country is doing great!        “Voluminous — wow. Fox News must have been running a lot of shampoo commercials this morning.” — JAMES CORDEN“Right before the Stormy Daniels interview aired, President Trump flew from Florida back to Washington, D.C., leaving his wife, Melania, behind. Or as the Secret Service calls it, whisking the president away for his own safety.” — CONAN O’BRIEN“You know why Trump probably did this, right? Someone told him, ‘Sir, if you sign this, everyone working for Russia has to leave the U.S.,’ and he was like, ‘Yea, I’m free! Putin, I’m coming home, baby!’” — TREVOR NOAH, on Trump’s decision to expel 60 Russian personnel from the United StatesHere’s Conan O’Brien, the master of late-night-sketch absurdism, planning a romantic getaway to Italy with his least-favorite employee.The hosts of “Desus and Mero” were surprised to see Killer Mike — the rapper, activist and outspoken supporter of Bernie Sanders — endorsing the N.R.A.Samantha Bee traveled to Washington over the weekend to attend the March for Our Lives. On Tuesday night, she visits Colbert, her old “Daily Show” colleague, presumably to talk about the march.Stormy Daniels’s tactics with the news media are reminiscent of Trump’s, our chief television critic writes.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 11:06 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin downplayed concerns about his potential successor's lack of managerial experience Monday, saying the key for improving the VA will be surrounding White House doctor Ronny Jackson with a good team "because no one person can do this alone."Shulkin and the White House have engaged in a highly public campaign surrounding his departure from the VA last week. Shulkin said he was fired. The White House said he resigned.On Monday, Shulkin told CNN there was no reason he would resign. He said he had been given a heads-up on his ouster by Chief of Staff John Kelly moments before President Donald Trump tweeted it.Shulkin said he supports the person President Donald Trump selected to replace him."I have comfort because I know Dr. Jackson," Shulkin said. "Dr. Jackson is a very honorable man who wants to do the right thing."AdvertisementShulkin's comments represented a different tone from the fractious back-and-forth Sunday when the White House hit back at Shulkin for claiming that he was fired from his job and that he was only informed about it shortly before President Donald Trump tweeted about his replacement.AdvertisementThe Trump administration says he left his job willingly amid a bruising ethics scandal and mounting rebellion within the agency.On Sunday, chagrined by Shulkin's public statements blaming his ouster on unfair "political forces" in the Trump administration, the White House circulated a "talking points" memo to some veterans groups in a bid to discredit him.The three-page memo, obtained by The Associated Press, points out seven "lies" that it said Shulkin had spread. They include statements in which he minimizes a VA watchdog report in February that concluded he violated ethics rules by accepting free Wimbledon tennis tickets. The VA inspector general has previously found Shulkin made misleading statements about the trip to investigators and the news media.In television interviews earlier Sunday, Shulkin said he had not submitted a resignation letter, or planned to, and was only told of Trump's decision to replace him shortly before the Twitter announcement. He said he had spoken to Trump by phone earlier that day about VA improvements, with no mention of his job status, and was scheduled to meet with the president the next morning."I came to run the Department of Veterans Affairs because I'm committed to veterans," Shulkin said. "And I would not resign because I'm committed to making sure this job was seen through to the very end."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last week, Trump named Defense Department official Robert Wilkie to the acting position, bypassing Shulkin's deputy secretary, Tom Bowman. Bowman has come under criticism for being too moderate to push Trump's agenda.Under federal law, a president has wide authority to temporarily fill a federal agency job if someone "dies, resigns, or is otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office." There is no mention of a president having that authority if the person is fired. Still, it's unclear if courts would seek to draw a legal distinction between a firing and a forced resignation, if that is indeed what happened to Shulkin.The day after announcing he was replacing Shulkin, Trump told a rally in Richfield, Ohio, that he had been dissatisfied with efforts to improve the VA. Shulkin had enjoyed Trump's support for much of his first year in the administration, but that eroded in February after mounting ethics questions and political infighting at the VA.AdvertisementWilkie, now listed on the VA website as acting secretary, took over Shulkin's duties last week.The back and forth over the circumstances behind Shulkin's departure — and what it could mean for Wilkie's status — comes as the nomination of Jackson is drawing concern among lawmakers and veterans groups. They worry the Navy rear admiral and lifelong physician lacks the experience to manage an enormous agency paralyzed over Trump's push to expand private care.Trump's new Cabinet nominees also are beginning to pile up in the Senate, likely leading to weeks of confirmation battles and other delays in the run-up to congressional midterm elections in November. That could mean an extended reign for an acting VA secretary.Shulkin's dismissal comes amid a broader shakeup of top Trump administration officials and accusations of excessive spending by Cabinet officials. Also currently under fire are Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson.Shulkin had agreed to reimburse the government more than $4,000 after the VA's internal watchdog concluded last month that he had improperly accepted Wimbledon tennis tickets and that his then-chief of staff had doctored emails to justify his wife traveling to Europe with him at taxpayer expense. Shulkin also blamed internal drama at the agency on a half-dozen or so rebellious political appointees, insisting he had White House backing to fire them.___Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed from Palm Beach, Florida.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 7:50 A.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  General Motors expects a revised trade deal between South Korea and the United States would "help ease investment risks", South Korea's trade ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.Seoul said on Monday it and Washington have agreed in principle to revise a trade pact sharply criticised by U.S. President Donald Trump, with U.S. automakers winning improved market access.(Reporting by Dahee Kim, Hyunjoo Jin, editing by Louise Heavens)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 10:45 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - A little-known former prosecutor with a doctorate in medieval history will play a central role on U.S. President Donald Trump's legal team, as many top-tier lawyers shy away from representing him in a probe into Russia's meddling in the 2016 election.Andrew Ekonomou, 69, is one of a handful of lawyers assisting Jay Sekulow, the main attorney representing Trump in Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation.Sekulow told Reuters on Tuesday that after the departure of Washington attorney John Dowd from Trump's personal legal team last week, Ekonomou will assume a more prominent role.Ekonomou said he has been working with Sekulow on the Mueller probe since June.The elevation comes at a crucial time in the Mueller probe, as Trump's team is negotiating the terms under which the president himself may be interviewed. Sekulow is now the last man standing of a trio of personal lawyers hired last spring to assist Trump on the probe. Combative New York lawyer Marc Kasowitz exited the team last summer.AdvertisementSekulow said Ekonomou, who works under contract as an assistant district attorney in Brunswick, Georgia, was a "brilliant strategist" who has handled complex investigations for decades. Ekonomou assisted Sekulow in a famous case involving the religious group Jews for Jesus before the Supreme Court in the 1980s.AdvertisementWhile Ekonomou has also worked on criminal matters, he has not handled cases as high-profile and complex as the Mueller probe.In an interview, Ekonomou told Reuters that he "prosecutes a lot of murders for the D.A."When asked about his biggest cases of late, Ekonomou said, "That's basically it. Nothing earthshaking."Ekonomou said he is up to the task of defending Trump, saying he has practiced law for more than four decades."I've been tested plenty of times," Ekonomou said. "Just because you're not a Beltway lawyer doesn't mean you don’t know what you're doing."Mueller is investigating Russian attempts to influence the 2016 U.S. election, and possible collusion by Trump aides. Russia has denied U.S. intelligence agencies' conclusion that it meddled in the election, and Trump has said there was no collusion between his campaign and Moscow officials.Trump has tried to tap top-tier lawyers to represent him but been repeatedly rebuffed, according to people familiar with the matter. For example, on Monday, Dan Webb, a former U.S. attorney in Illinois, said Trump had reached out to him and a Washington colleague, but business conflicts prevented them from representing the president.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Savannah Law School professor Andrew Wright, former associate counsel in the Obama White House, said it is unusual for a president to turn to lawyers like Ekonomou who are untested on the national scene and not part of the elite white-collar bar."He's well past the A-team grab space," Wright said.Ekonomou said that since he began working with Sekulow, he has attended meetings with Mueller's team. He said he brings more criminal experience to the table than Sekulow.AdvertisementEkonomou is a member of The Lambros Firm LLC, a boutique firm in Atlanta, which mostly handles civil and criminal racketeering cases for D.A.s around the state.In the late 1970s and early '80s, Ekonomou spent several years in the U.S. Attorney's office in Atlanta, where he was chief of the office's criminal division and briefly served as acting U.S. attorney in 1982.Since the Jews for Jesus case in the '80s with Sekulow, Ekonomou has done some work for the American Center for Law and Justice, a non-profit which advocates for religious and constitutional freedoms and is known for supporting Christian causes. Sekulow is the center's chief counsel.Following what he called a "mid-life crisis," Ekonomou said he went back to school and got his doctorate in medieval history at Emory University in 2000. Ekonomou said he is the author of a book on Byzantine Rome and the Greek popes.Drew Ashby, a trial lawyer who worked for Ekonomou between 2007 and 2010, said Ekonomou has a commanding presence that would likely serve him well when dealing with Trump."He is a force of nature," Ashby said. "Andy has the kind of presence and the kind of mind that I would think would make Donald Trump listen."(Reporting by Karen Freifeld; Additional reporting by Jan Wolfe and Nathan Layne; Editing by Noeleen Walder and Leslie Adler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 8:09 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  America's most sweeping expulsion of Russian diplomats since the Cold War may have seemed like a dramatic escalation in Washington's response to Moscow, but the groundwork for a more confrontational U.S. posture had been taking shape for months -- in plain sight.While President Donald Trump's conciliatory rhetoric toward Moscow has dominated headlines, officials at the U.S. State Department, Pentagon and White House made a series of lower-profile decisions over the past year to counter Russia around the world - from Afghanistan to North Korea to Syria.The State Department earlier in March announced plans to provide anti-tank missiles to Ukraine to defend against Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. Trump's predecessor as president, Barack Obama, had declined to do so over fears of provoking Moscow.In Syria last month, the U.S. military killed or injured as many as 300 men working for a Kremlin-linked private military firm after they attacked U.S. and U.S.-backed forces. The White House, meanwhile, firmly tied Russia to deadly strikes on civilians in Syria's eastern Ghouta region.AdvertisementBoth the White House and Pentagon's top policy documents unveiled in January portrayed Russia as an adversary that had returned to the center of U.S. national security planning.AdvertisementThat was all before the United States said on Monday it would expel 60 Russian diplomats, joining governments across Europe in punishing the Kremlin for a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain that they have blamed on Moscow.Russia has denied any involvement.With Monday's announcement, however, it was unclear whether Trump is promoting - or just acquiescing to - the tougher U.S. stance developed by his advisers and generals.Trump's critics sought to portray him as a reluctant actor in any get-tough approach to Russia, even though one senior administration official described him as involved "from the beginning" in the expulsions of Russian diplomats."It is disturbing how grudgingly he came to this decision," said U.S. Representative Adam Smith, the top Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee.Still, the Trump administration's actions run counter to widespread perception, fueled by the president's own statements, that Trump has softened America's stance toward Russian President Vladimir Putin amid a U.S. investigation into Moscow's meddling in the 2016 presidential election.Regardless of the tough actions, the inconsistent messaging may undermine Washington's strategy to deter Moscow's aggressive behavior, experts warn."U.S. signaling is all undercut by Trump's lack of seriousness about Russia," said Andrew Weiss, a Russia expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Just last Tuesday, Trump congratulated Putin on his re-election, drawing sharp criticism from fellow Republicans.AdvertisementBut in another sign of mixed messaging, Trump two days later  named John Bolton, a strident Russia hawk, to become his national security adviser.DOWNWARD SPIRALAlthough the nerve agent attack was the official trigger for the U.S. expulsions, Trump administration officials warned that the attack should not be viewed in isolation, citing a series of destabilizing and aggressive actions by Moscow.In Afghanistan, Trump's top commander on the ground accused Russia again last week of arming Taliban militants.On North Korea, Trump himself told Reuters in January that Russia was helping Pyongyang evade United Nations sanctions.And less than two weeks ago, the Trump administration imposed the first sanctions against Russia for election meddling and cyber attacks, though it held off on punishing business magnates close to Putin.U.S. officials and experts widely expect ties to further deteriorate, at least in the near term, and caution that Russia's next steps could extend far beyond retaliation against American diplomats."The risk of escalation doesn't just come from tit-for-tat punishments," said Matthew Rojansky, a Russia expert at the Wilson Center think tank in Washington, citing the potential for more aggressive moves from the Middle East to the cyber realm.U.S. officials have said the Trump administration still seeks to avoid a complete rupture in bilateral relations. One official said Russian cooperation was still sought to address thorny diplomatic issues like North Korea and Iran.(Additional reporting by John Walcott; editing by Mary Milliken and G Crosse)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 9:34 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  America's most sweeping expulsion of Russian diplomats since the Cold War may have seemed like a dramatic escalation in Washington's response to Moscow, but the groundwork for a more confrontational U.S. posture had been taking shape for months -- in plain sight.While President Donald Trump's conciliatory rhetoric towards Moscow has dominated headlines, officials at the U.S. State Department, Pentagon and White House made a series of lower-profile decisions over the past year to counter Russia around the world - from Afghanistan to North Korea to Syria.The State Department earlier in March announced plans to provide anti-tank missiles to Ukraine to defend against Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. Trump's predecessor as president, Barack Obama, had declined to do so over fears of provoking Moscow.In Syria last month, the U.S. military killed or injured as many as 300 men working for a Kremlin-linked private military firm after they attacked U.S. and U.S.-backed forces. The White House, meanwhile, firmly tied Russia to deadly strikes on civilians in Syria's eastern Ghouta region.AdvertisementBoth the White House and Pentagon's top policy documents unveiled in January portrayed Russia as an adversary that had returned to the centre of U.S. national security planning.AdvertisementThat was all before the United States said on Monday it would expel 60 Russian diplomats, joining governments across Europe in punishing the Kremlin for a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain that they have blamed on Moscow.Russia has denied any involvement.With Monday's announcement, however, it was unclear whether Trump is promoting - or just acquiescing to - the tougher U.S. stance developed by his advisers and generals.Trump's critics sought to portray him as a reluctant actor in any get-tough approach to Russia, even though one senior administration official described him as involved "from the beginning" in the expulsions of Russian diplomats."It is disturbing how grudgingly he came to this decision," said U.S. Representative Adam Smith, the top Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee.Still, the Trump administration's actions run counter to widespread perception, fuelled by the president's own statements, that Trump has softened America's stance towards Russian President Vladimir Putin amid a U.S. investigation into Moscow's meddling in the 2016 presidential election.Regardless of the tough actions, the inconsistent messaging may undermine Washington's strategy to deter Moscow's aggressive behaviour, experts warn."U.S. signalling is all undercut by Trump's lack of seriousness about Russia," said Andrew Weiss, a Russia expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Just last Tuesday, Trump congratulated Putin on his re-election, drawing sharp criticism from fellow Republicans.AdvertisementBut in another sign of mixed messaging, Trump two days later  named John Bolton, a strident Russia hawk, to become his national security adviser.DOWNWARD SPIRALAlthough the nerve agent attack was the official trigger for the U.S. expulsions, Trump administration officials warned that the attack should not be viewed in isolation, citing a series of destabilising and aggressive actions by Moscow.In Afghanistan, Trump's top commander on the ground accused Russia again last week of arming Taliban militants.On North Korea, Trump himself told Reuters in January that Russia was helping Pyongyang evade United Nations sanctions.And less than two weeks ago, the Trump administration imposed the first sanctions against Russia for election meddling and cyber attacks, though it held off on punishing business magnates close to Putin.U.S. officials and experts widely expect ties to further deteriorate, at least in the near term, and caution that Russia's next steps could extend far beyond retaliation against American diplomats."The risk of escalation doesn't just come from tit-for-tat punishments," said Matthew Rojansky, a Russia expert at the Wilson Center think tank in Washington, citing the potential for more aggressive moves from the Middle East to the cyber realm.U.S. officials have said the Trump administration still seeks to avoid a complete rupture in bilateral relations. One official said Russian cooperation was still sought to address thorny diplomatic issues like North Korea and Iran.(Additional reporting by John Walcott; editing by Mary Milliken and G Crosse)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 10:44 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - A little-known former prosecutor with a doctorate in medieval history will play a central role on U.S. President Donald Trump's legal team, as many top-tier lawyers shy away from representing him in a probe into Russia's meddling in the 2016 election.Andrew Ekonomou, 69, is one of a handful of lawyers assisting Jay Sekulow, the main attorney representing Trump in Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation.Sekulow told Reuters on Tuesday that after the departure of Washington attorney John Dowd from Trump's personal legal team last week, Ekonomou will assume a more prominent role.Ekonomou said he has been working with Sekulow on the Mueller probe since June.The elevation comes at a crucial time in the Mueller probe, as Trump's team is negotiating the terms under which the president himself may be interviewed. Sekulow is now the last man standing of a trio of personal lawyers hired last spring to assist Trump on the probe. Combative New York lawyer Marc Kasowitz exited the team last summer.AdvertisementSekulow said Ekonomou, who works under contract as an assistant district attorney in Brunswick, Georgia, was a "brilliant strategist" who has handled complex investigations for decades. Ekonomou assisted Sekulow in a famous case involving the religious group Jews for Jesus before the Supreme Court in the 1980s.AdvertisementWhile Ekonomou has also worked on criminal matters, he has not handled cases as high-profile and complex as the Mueller probe.In an interview, Ekonomou told Reuters that he "prosecutes a lot of murders for the D.A."When asked about his biggest cases of late, Ekonomou said, "That's basically it. Nothing earthshaking."Ekonomou said he is up to the task of defending Trump, saying he has practiced law for more than four decades."I've been tested plenty of times," Ekonomou said. "Just because you're not a Beltway lawyer doesn't mean you don’t know what you're doing."Mueller is investigating Russian attempts to influence the 2016 U.S. election, and possible collusion by Trump aides. Russia has denied U.S. intelligence agencies' conclusion that it meddled in the election, and Trump has said there was no collusion between his campaign and Moscow officials.Trump has tried to tap top-tier lawyers to represent him but been repeatedly rebuffed, according to people familiar with the matter. For example, on Monday, Dan Webb, a former U.S. attorney in Illinois, said Trump had reached out to him and a Washington colleague, but business conflicts prevented them from representing the president.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Savannah Law School professor Andrew Wright, former associate counsel in the Obama White House, said it is unusual for a president to turn to lawyers like Ekonomou who are untested on the national scene and not part of the elite white-collar bar."He's well past the A-team grab space," Wright said.Ekonomou said that since he began working with Sekulow, he has attended meetings with Mueller's team. He said he brings more criminal experience to the table than Sekulow.AdvertisementEkonomou is a member of The Lambros Firm LLC, a boutique firm in Atlanta, which mostly handles civil and criminal racketeering cases for D.A.s around the state.In the late 1970s and early '80s, Ekonomou spent several years in the U.S. Attorney's office in Atlanta, where he was chief of the office's criminal division and briefly served as acting U.S. attorney in 1982.Since the Jews for Jesus case in the '80s with Sekulow, Ekonomou has done some work for the American Center for Law and Justice, a non-profit which advocates for religious and constitutional freedoms and is known for supporting Christian causes. Sekulow is the center's chief counsel.Following what he called a "mid-life crisis," Ekonomou said he went back to school and got his doctorate in medieval history at Emory University in 2000. Ekonomou said he is the author of a book on Byzantine Rome and the Greek popes.Drew Ashby, a trial lawyer who worked for Ekonomou between 2007 and 2010, said Ekonomou has a commanding presence that would likely serve him well when dealing with Trump."He is a force of nature," Ashby said. "Andy has the kind of presence and the kind of mind that I would think would make Donald Trump listen."(Reporting by Karen Freifeld; Additional reporting by Jan Wolfe and Nathan Layne; Editing by Noeleen Walder and Leslie Adler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 12:31 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley on Wednesday blasted the Trump administration over its handling of trade issues, saying while the United States should act, China's retaliatory moves were disproportionately affecting America's agriculture sector."If the federal government takes action on trade that directly results in economic hardship for certain Americans, it has a responsibility to help those Americans and mitigate the damage it caused," the Iowa Republican said, adding that he planned to take action in the Senate Judiciary and Finance committees.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Kevin Drawbaugh; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 2:28 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Ford Motor Co on Wednesday said it encouraged the U.S. and Chinese governments to "work together to resolve issues" after China retaliated against U.S. plans to impose tariffs with a list of similar duties."We encourage both governments to work together to resolve issues between these two important economies," Ford said in a statement.Responding to tariffs imposed by the Trump government less than 11 hours later, China issued a list of duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals in a move that sent global markets lower.(Reporting By Aparajita Saxena in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 3:31 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Liberal judge Rebecca Dallet cruised to victory in race to serve on the Wisconsin Supreme Court for a 10-year term, the Associated Press reported late on Tuesday.Dallet defeated conservative judge Michael Screnock who was endorsed by Wisconsin's Republican governor, Scott Walker, narrowing conservative control of the court to 4-3 from 5-2, AP said.The candidates were backed by partisans with Screnock supported by the National Rifle Association and the state GOP which backed him with a $400,000 contribution. Dallet received the support of former U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, according to the report.Dallet, who has been a Milwaukee County circuit judge since 2008, will join the higher court in August, AP reported.AdvertisementThe Democrats scored an upset in a Wisconsin state Senate special election in January, capturing a conservative district held by Republicans since 2000.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A judge had ruled in March that Governor Walker must hold special elections in two state districts in Wisconsin after Democrats said he was putting off the votes over fears of losing the formerly Republican-held seats.Wisconsin was among the handful of battleground states that helped Trump win the presidency over Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in the 2016 elections. Trump carried Wisconsin by 22,748 votes.Advertisement(Reporting by Kanishka Singh in Bengaluru; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 9:34 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The United States plans additional responses to Russian activities that will include a number of steps to defend November congressional elections against meddling from Moscow, the top U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday.Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats said the United States would take more actions in response to the poisoning of a former Russian spy in England as well as "the entire range of malign Russian activities."U.S. President Donald Trump last month ordered the expulsion of 60 Russians from the United States and closed the Russian consulate in Seattle in response to a March 4 attack on former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia with a military-grade nerve agent.Moscow has denied responsibility for the attack and has retaliated with its own expulsions.At a breakfast with reporters, Coats was asked whether Washington would take action beyond kicking out the 60 diplomats.Advertisement"This is under considerable consideration and more things will be done, and soon, above where we are right now," Coats said. "I would just stay tuned on that. I think we are more and more aware of the potential for Russia to continue to engage in any number of ways relative to our elections and a lot of steps are being taken."U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election to sway the vote to Trump. A federal special counsel is investigating potential collusion by the Trump campaign with Moscow.Advertisement(Reporting by Jonathan Landay; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Franklin Paul and Bill Trott)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 5:44 P.M. E.D.T.
MEXICO CITY —  Mexico's interior minister said on Monday that he spoke to the U.S. homeland security secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, agreeing to work together to study how to best address the flow of migrants."We agreed to analyze the best ways to attend to the flows of migrants in accordance with the laws of each country," Interior Minister Alfonso Navarrete wrote in a post on Twitter.U.S. President Donald Trump lashed out against Mexico on Sunday, writing on Twitter that the Latin American country was doing little to stop the flow of migrants into the United States.(Reporting by Lizbeth Diaz; writing by Julia Love)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 4:04 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The White House said on Wednesday it hoped China would change its "unfair trade practices" in a way that would avoid the need for the Trump administration to move forward with announced import tariffs."It's going to be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented and we're hopeful that China will do the right thing," White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters."I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behavior of China and they don't stop the unfair trade practices then we would move forward," she said.(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Writing by Tim Ahmann; Editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 4:28 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Following attacks by President Donald Trump on Amazon.com Inc, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce criticized attacks by government officials against American companies.“It’s inappropriate for government officials to use their position to attack an American company," said Neil Bradley, executive vice president and chief policy officer for the Chamber of Commerce, the nation's largest business group."The U.S. economy is the world’s most powerful because it embraces the free enterprise system and the rule of law, whereby policy matters are handled through recognized policymaking processes. The record is clear: Deviating from those processes undermines economic growth and job creation.”(Reporting by Ginger Gibson; editing by Jonathan Oatis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 6:36 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Families of Japanese abducted by North Korea decades ago urged Japan's leader on Friday to persuade U.S. President Donald Trump to help win the abductees' release during a possible summit with North Korea's leader.Trump has said he will meet Kim Jong Un by the end of May, though North Korea hasn't directly commented on a message from a South Korean envoy that Kim wants to meet Trump.Also Friday, a senior Chinese official briefed South Korean President Moon Jae-in in Seoul on the outcome of President Xi Jinping's meeting this week with Kim in Beijing. Moon and Kim are scheduled to meet on April 27.The abductees' families urged Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to seek Trump's help because this could be their last chance to win their loved ones' release. Abe plans to visit the U.S. in April for talks with Trump.Advertisement"Please ask President Trump to discuss (with Kim) how to achieve the abductees' return," Shigeo Iizuka, 79, head of a group representing the families of abduction victims, told Abe. "We would like President Trump to ask Kim Jong Un to make specific arrangements for the abductees to return home."AdvertisementAbe promised to do so, saying, "We should not let the abduction issue, which is very important to us, be left behind."Iizuka's younger sister, Yaeko Taguchi, then 22, was kidnapped by North Korean agents in 1978, leaving behind two children — a baby boy and a girl — at a nursery. Iizuka adopted the boy and raised him as his fourth child, and the girl was adopted by an aunt.Taguchi's whereabouts weren't known for nearly a quarter century until North Korea, after years of denials, acknowledged in 2002 abducting 13 Japanese citizens. Japan says North Korea has abducted at least four more Japanese.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.North Korea allowed five of them to visit Japan in 2002 — and they stayed — but said the other eight had died, though their families say what the North said cannot be trusted. North Korea also promised a re-investigation of the eight and set up a committee, but its results were never presented as the North's missile and nuclear threats escalated.Iizuka said he and the other families want Abe to "make use of each upcoming meeting" to achieve the abductees' return."We see a big chance coming up, and there will be no greater chance than this," he said.In Seoul, Yang Jiechi, a member of the Chinese Communist Party's powerful political bureau who was sent as Xi's special envoy, met with Moon and delivered a detailed explanation of the talks between Xi and Kim, according to Moon's office. The office said Yang confirmed Chinese intentions to "actively cooperate" in seeking the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.Yang earlier in the day met with South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-hwa, who said it was encouraging that Kim during his talks with Xi expressed a "firm willingness" for dialogue with Seoul and Washington. Yang told Kang that Beijing hopes the Kim-Xi meeting will prove helpful to the success of talks between Pyongyang, Seoul and Washington, according to Seoul's Foreign Ministry.Ahead of Moon's planned summit with Kim in late April, a group of 160 South Korean musicians is performing in North Korea this Sunday and Tuesday. The group, which includes some of South Korea's biggest pop singers, is to fly to the North on Saturday.___Associated Press writer Kim Tong-hyung in Seoul contributed to this story.___Find her work at https://www.apnews.com/search/mari%20yamaguchiWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 12:32 A.M. E.D.T.
MEXICO CITY —  Migrants forming a caravan in southern Mexico are subject to an administrative migratory procedure, the Mexican foreign ministry said on Monday, after the caravan drew the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.In a statement, the ministry said that the U.S. government must determine whether it would allow any of the migrants from the caravan into the United States."It is not up to this government to make migration decisions for the United States or for any other nation," the ministry said.The ministry also said it did not foster illegal migration "under any circumstances".(Reporting by Dave Graham; writing by Julia Love)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 10:10 P.M. E.D.T.
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico —  Central American migrants stranded on a journey through Mexico because of U.S. President Donald Trump's pressure on the Mexican government say they will struggle on toward the United States, even as their "caravan" said it would disband in Mexico City.Fearful of the risks to children among the bedraggled and tired knot of travelers, the organizers of the annual caravan, U.S.-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, said it would end in the capital, not at the border as had been planned."It's not because of Donald Trump," said Irineo Mujica, director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which has staged the caravan since 2010 to draw attention to migrants' rights and help them.Mujica said the group did not want to put children on freight trains, which are traditionally used to cover part of the journey to the border. Nicknamed "la bestia" (the beast), the train is infamous for causing injury to migrants.AdvertisementTrump has lashed out at the caravan, accusing Mexico of failing to stop illegal immigrants heading to the border.AdvertisementThe president took a hard line on illegal immigration during the 2016 election campaign and is frustrated by the failure of Congress to fund his long-promised border wall.Trump would sign a proclamation on Wednesday ordering the deployment of the National Guard to the border with Mexico, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said.Mexican officials, meanwhile, have screened people in the caravan, stalling it and dispersing migrants. The foreign ministry denied putting pressure on the migrants, saying that the caravan was breaking up of its own volition.By mid-afternoon on Wednesday in the southern town of Matias Romero, migrants were sprawled in the fields singing songs or tying to sleep off the searing sun.Sitting in the dust was a seven-year-old boy who removed his dirty flip-flops and splayed his feet, revealing flaking and blackened cracks between his toes from days of walking with his mother and sister from El Salvador.A number of the children in the caravan were suffering from diarrhea, vomiting, respiratory problems and dehydration, said a local doctor, Julio Cesar Iglesias.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some migrants may get permits to stay, while others will be sent back to their home countries, the Mexican government says.Hundreds of the migrants, many from Honduras, marched in  Matias Romero on Tuesday evening to draw attention to their plight near the field where they have been bivouacked since the weekend.AdvertisementThere were shouts to oust Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez, whose disputed re-election victory in a November vote split the country.International observers criticized the result due to serious concerns over vote-rigging, though Mexico and the Trump administration recognized it a few weeks later. Some migrants in the caravan saw no future for themselves in Honduras.One of them, Maria Elena Colindres Ortega, an opponent of Hernandez and former member of the Honduran congress who is seeking U.S. political asylum, said the march on Tuesday aimed to show the migrants were not giving up."We're marching and moving to prove to (Trump) that we are not afraid," said Colindres Ortega, a mother of seven.Migration officials on Wednesday continued to register names and issue permits to some migrants that give them 20 days to leave Mexico - a far shorter period than the caravan has taken to reach the U.S. border in previous years, organizers said.The organizers said that on Sunday about 300 migrants, most of them men, left the group, and headed to the eastern state of Veracruz. There, according to three witnesses, four truckloads of immigration officials gave them 48 hours to disperse.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Editing by Dave Graham and Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 8:14 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  Senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi told South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Friday that all parties must seize the moment to advance talks between leaders of North and South Korea, and between North Korea and the United States.Tension over North Korea's tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles surged last year and raised fears of U.S. military action in response to the North's threat to develop a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States.But the situation has eased significantly since North Korea decided to send athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.The two sides, still technically at war after the 1950-53 conflict ended with a ceasefire, not a truce, are set to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un pledged his commitment to denuclearisation.AdvertisementYang, a top Chinese diplomat and a member of China's elite Politburo, told Moon on a visit to Seoul it was a crucial moment for alleviating the situation on the Korean peninsula, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said.Advertisement"All sides must seize the moment, work together, promote smooth meetings that achieve positive outcomes between leaders of South and North Korea, and between North Korea and the United States, and in due course reopen a substantive political resolution process to the peninsula issue," Yang said.Yang also informed Moon about Kim's visit to Beijing this week, the North Korean leader's first known foreign trip since he assumed power in 2011, where he met Chinese President Xi Jinping.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Moon thanked Yang for China's contribution to the easing of tension on the peninsula, the Chinese ministry said in a statement.Kim is scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump in May to discuss the nuclear issue, although a time and place have not been set.His pledge to denuclearise the Korean peninsula was reported by Chinese state media, but North Korea's official media made no mention of it, or Kim's anticipated meeting with Trump.Kim and Trump had earlier exchanged insults and veiled threats of war but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement this month that he was prepared to meet Kim.Trump wrote on Twitter he had received a message from Xi late on Tuesday that his meeting with Kim "went very well" and that Kim looked forward to meeting the U.S. president.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.MARCH 10, 2018
“Let them call you racists. Let them call you xenophobes. Let them call you nativists. Wear it as a badge of honor.”STEPHEN K. BANNON, former chief strategist for President Trump, addressing the party congress of the anti-immigrant National Front led by the French far-right leader Marine Le Pen in Lille, France.A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page A3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 11:56 P.M. E.D.T.
MEXICO CITY —  Migrants forming a caravan in southern Mexico are subject to an administrative migratory procedure, the Mexican foreign ministry said on Monday, after the caravan drew the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.In a statement, the ministry said that the U.S. government must determine whether it would allow any of the migrants from the caravan into the United States."It is not up to this government to make migration decisions for the United States or for any other nation," the ministry said.The ministry also said it did not foster illegal migration "under any circumstances".(Reporting by Dave Graham; writing by Julia Love)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 1, 2018, 12:53 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  A senior Republican senator on Sunday warned U.S. President Donald Trump against pulling U.S. troops from Syria, saying it would lead to a resurgence of Islamic State and increased Iranian sway over the Syrian government in Damascus."It’d be the single worst decision the president could make," Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said on the Fox News Sunday program."We got ISIL on the ropes. You want to let 'em off the ropes, remove American soldiers," Graham said, using an acronym for Islamic State.With Islamic State having lost almost all the territory it once held in Syria, Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops.AdvertisementThat position appears to put the president at odds with U.S. military officials, who see the fight against Islamic State as far from complete.AdvertisementThe White House's National Security Council is expected to meet early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A senior administration official told Reuters that Trump's advisers believe the U.S. military needs to stay in Syria in small numbers for at least two more years.Trump is unhappy with the advice, but it is unclear if he will actually order a troop withdrawal, the official said.About 2,000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Graham, in the television interview, echoed White House advisers' concerns about an early pullout."This is a disaster in the making," he said."There are over 3,000 ISIS fighters still roaming around Syria," Graham said, using another acronym for Islamic State. "If we withdrew our troops anytime soon, ISIS would come back, the war between Turkey and the Kurds would get out of hand, and you’d be giving Damascus to the Iranians without an American presence."(Reporting by Warren Strobel and Steve Holland Editing by Bill Rigby)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 11:01 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Latest on the Trump administration's proposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing's alleged theft of American technology. (all times local):8 p.m.China's Commerce Ministry says it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed new U.S. tariffs and warns of retaliatory action."We will prepare equal measures for U.S. products with the same scale" according to regulations in Chinese trade law, a spokesman says in comments carried by the official Xinhua News Agency.The ministry says "the U.S. has published these tariff proposals with disregard to China's solemn representations and without factual basis.""This is typical of unilateralism and trade protection," it adds.The statement says the U.S. move ignores the voices of industry in both countries and the interests of consumers and is not conducive to China, the U.S, and the world's economic interests. China intends to refer this to the WTO's trade dispute settlement mechanism, it says.Advertisement___7:40 p.m.The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a U.S. think tank for science and technology policy, is cautioning the Trump administration against imposing tariffs on Chinese goods that the foundation says support U.S. productivity.Advertisement"The Trump administration is right to push back against China's abuse of economic and trade policy," its president, Robert Atkinson, said in a statement. "The list of tariffs that USTR has proposed today would hurt companies in the U.S. by raising the prices and reducing consumption of the capital equipment they rely on to produce their goods and services.Atkinson added:"The focus should be on things that will create the most leverage over China without raising prices and dampening investment in the kinds of machinery, equipment, and other technology that drives innovation and productivity across the economy."___7:05 p.m.The Chinese embassy in Washington says it "strongly condemns" the Trump administration's planned tariffs. In a statement, the embassy says the proposal "serves neither China's interest, not the U.S. interest, even less the interest of the global economy."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.And it hinted that Beijing would retaliate with trade sanctions of its own: "As the Chinese saying goes, it is only polite to reciprocate."The embassy said China would seek relief from the World Trade Organization and "take corresponding measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products in accordance with Chinese law."___6:45 p.m.The U.S.-China Business Council has long complained that China's policies have discriminated against U.S. technology companies. But the council argues that the latest proposed tariffs against Beijing are not the answer."Unilateral tariffs may do more harm than good and do little to address the problems in China (intellectual property) and tech transfer policies," said John Frisbie, president of the council.___5:54 p.m.The Trump administration is recommending 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing's alleged theft of American technology.The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative has issued a list targeting 1,300 Chinese products, including industrial robots and telecommunications equipment. But the proposed tariffs wouldn't take effect before a public comment period ends May 11.AdvertisementThe move is the latest in a series of aggressive actions the administration has taken to combat what it calls unfair trade practices by China and other countries. American businesses worry that the administration's moves will draw painful retaliatory sanctions.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 7:59 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  Senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi told South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Friday that all parties must seize the moment to advance talks between leaders of North and South Korea, and between North Korea and the United States.Tension over North Korea's tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles surged last year and raised fears of U.S. military action in response to the North's threat to develop a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States.But the situation has eased significantly since North Korea decided to send athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.The two sides, still technically at war after the 1950-53 conflict ended with a ceasefire, not a truce, are set to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un pledged his commitment to denuclearisation.AdvertisementYang, a top Chinese diplomat and a member of China's elite Politburo, told Moon on a visit to Seoul it was a crucial moment for alleviating the situation on the Korean peninsula, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said.Advertisement"All sides must seize the moment, work together, promote smooth meetings that achieve positive outcomes between leaders of South and North Korea, and between North Korea and the United States, and in due course reopen a substantive political resolution process to the peninsula issue," Yang said.Yang also informed Moon about Kim's visit to Beijing this week, the North Korean leader's first known foreign trip since he assumed power in 2011, where he met Chinese President Xi Jinping.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Moon thanked Yang for China's contribution to the easing of tension on the peninsula, the Chinese ministry said in a statement.Kim is scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump in May to discuss the nuclear issue, although a time and place have not been set.His pledge to denuclearise the Korean peninsula was reported by Chinese state media, but North Korea's official media made no mention of it, or Kim's anticipated meeting with Trump.Kim and Trump had earlier exchanged insults and veiled threats of war but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement this month that he was prepared to meet Kim.Trump wrote on Twitter he had received a message from Xi late on Tuesday that his meeting with Kim "went very well" and that Kim looked forward to meeting the U.S. president.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 11:33 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  U.S. manufacturers say they expanded at a slower pace in March, with many factories saying they're having a tough time getting supplies in order to meet demand from customers.The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, reported Monday that its manufacturing index slipped to 59.3 last month from February's reading of 60.8, which had been the highest since 2004. Any score above 50 signals growth."The details of the March data point to the steady growth in the factory sector seen over the past several quarters being sustained," said Richard Moody, the chief economist at Regions Financial.The categories of new orders, production and employment each fell in March for manufacturers, even though the underlying numbers remained positive. But companies surveyed for the index highlighted another issue: a shortage of raw materials that is causing them to lose out on possible sales.Multiple companies also said that the introduction of steel and aluminum tariffs by President Donald Trump was causing concerns about rising prices. Some companies bought up the metals ahead of their implementation, driving up costs. Trump is trying to support U.S. steel and aluminum mills, though his tariffs include exemptions for allies such as Canada and Mexico.Any supply shortage and price increases could further worsen as Trump is imposing up to $50 billion worth of tariffs on Chinese imports in response to concerns about Beijing stealing foreign companies' technology or forcing these firms to share their innovations in order to have access to Chinese customers. China responded Monday to the tariffs by announcing $3 billion of additional tariffs on U.S. pork, apples and other products.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 2:09 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Between lobbying, campaign contributions and positioning itself as engaged on policy issues like job creation, Amazon.com has long courted a positive relationship with both the White House and Congress that will help it withstand the latest attack from U.S. President Donald Trump.The company was likely not surprised when Trump criticized it via a post on Twitter on Thursday; he has slammed it in a similar manner previously. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos's decision to purchase The Washington Post has also stoked Trump's ire.Still, Amazon doesn't appear to be left out of the White House since Trump took office; an official from its Washington, D.C. office participated in an event hosted last week by First Lady Melania Trump to discuss cyber safety and technology.Disclosures from Amazon indicate they have lobbied the White House on several topics, including immigration, cyber security and drones.AdvertisementKeeping a cadre of lobbyists has become routine for large companies that risk having their entire business upset by possible congressional or regulatory action.AdvertisementAmazon employs about 15 lobbyists, according to disclosures submitted to the U.S. Senate. Additionally, the company works with about 15 outside lobbying firms who each assign more lobbyists to work on behalf of the company.Amazon has wide exposure to various parts of the government capable of regulating their business operations - from federal aviation rules affecting drones to oversight of anti-trust.The largest online retailer, Amazon is also working aggressively to obtain government contracts to provide services to federal agencies to save data online for them, known as cloud services. Currently, Amazon has a $600 million contract to host data for the Central Intelligence Agency.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The e-commerce giant spent $15.4 million in 2017, up from $12 million a year earlier, on lobbying in Washington.The company’s lobbying effort more than doubled in 2015 compared with prior years, spending $10.5 million.Amazon also maintains a corporate political action committee (PAC), a fund that allows the company to collect political donations from employees and then give donations to lawmakers and other politicians running for office.By the end of February, Amazon's PAC had $1.1 million in cash. The committee spent more than $718,000 in 2017 and the first two months of 2018.The cash spent by Amazon was divided between Republicans and Democrats. For example, in 2017 the PAC gave both the Democratic and Republican congressional committees $15,000.(Reporting by Ginger Gibson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 10:33 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon," while at odds with his own policy, was not a one-off: For weeks, top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has increasingly told them privately he wants out, U.S. officials said.Only two months ago, Trump's aides thought they'd persuaded him that the U.S. needed to keep its presence in Syria open-ended — not only because the Islamic State group has yet to be entirely defeated, but also because the resulting power vacuum could be filled by other extremist groups or by Iran. Trump signed off on major speech in January in which Secretary of State Rex Tillerson laid out the new strategy and declared "it is vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria."But by mid-February, Trump was telling his top aides in meetings that as soon as victory can be declared against IS, he wanted American troops out of Syria, said the officials. Alarm bells went off at the State Department and the Pentagon, where officials have been planning for a gradual, methodical shift from a military-led operation to a diplomatic mission to start rebuilding basic infrastructure like roads and sewers in the war-wracked country.In one sign that Trump is serious about reversing course and withdrawing from Syria, the White House this week put on hold some $200 million in US funding for stabilization projects in Syria, officials said. The money, to have been spent by the State Department for infrastructure projects like power, water and roads, had been announced by outgoing Secretary  of State Rex Tillerson at an aid conference last month in Kuwait.AdvertisementThe officials said the hold, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, is not necessarily permanent and will be discussed at senior-level inter-agency meetings next week.AdvertisementThe officials weren't authorized to comment publicly and demanded anonymity.The State Department said it continually reviews appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized. And the agency said it continues to work with the international community, members of the Coalition, and our partners on the ground to provide much needed stabilization support to vulnerable areas in Syria."The United States is working everyday on the ground and with the international community to help stabilize those areas liberated from ISIS and identify ways to move forward with reconstruction once there has been a peaceful political transition away from (Syrian President Bashar) Assad," according to a statement from the State Department.Trump's first public suggestion he was itching to pull out came in a news conference with visiting Australian Prime Minister Alastair Campbell on Feb. 23, when Trump said the U.S. was in Syria to "get rid of ISIS and go home." On Thursday, in a domestic policy speech in Ohio, Trump went further."We'll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon — very soon, we're coming out," Trump said.The public declaration caught U.S. national security agencies off-guard and unsure whether Trump was formally announcing a new, unexpected change in policy. Inundated by inquiries from journalists and foreign officials, the Pentagon and State Department reached out to the White House's National Security Council for clarification.The White House's ambiguous response, officials said: Trump's words speak for themselves."The mission of the Department of Defense to defeat ISIS has not changed," said Maj. Adrian Rankine-Galloway, a Pentagon spokesman.Still, without a clear directive from the president, planning has not started for a withdrawal from Syria, officials said, and Trump has not advocated a specific timetable.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For Trump, who campaigned on an "America First" mantra, Syria is just the latest foreign arena where his impulse has been to limit the U.S. role. Like with NATO and the United Nations, Trump has called for other governments to step up and share more of the burden so that Washington doesn't foot the bill. His administration has been crisscrossing the globe seeking financial commitments from other countries to fund reconstruction in both Syria and Iraq, but with only limited success.AdvertisementYet it's unclear how Trump's impulse to pull out could be affected by recent staff shake-ups on his national security team. Tillerson and former national security adviser H.R. McMaster, both advocates for keeping a U.S. presence in Syria, were recently fired, creating questions about the longevity of the plan Tillerson announced in his Stanford University speech in January. But Trump also replaced McMaster with John Bolton, a vocal advocate for U.S. intervention and aggressive use of the military overseas.The abrupt change in the president's thinking has drawn concern both inside and outside the United States.Other nations that make up the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS fear that Trump's impulse to pull out hastily would allow the notoriously resourceful IS militants to regroup, several European diplomats said. That concern has been heightened by the fact that U.S.-backed ground operations against remaining IS militants in Syria were put on hold earlier this month.The ground operations had to be paused because Kurdish fighters who had been spearheading the campaign against IS shifted to a separate fight with Turkish forces, who began combat operations in the town of Afrin against Kurds who are considered by Ankara to be terrorists that threaten Turkey's security."This is a serious and growing concern," State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said this month.Beyond just defeating IS, there are other strategic U.S. objectives that could be jeopardized by a hasty withdrawal, officials said, chiefly those related to Russia and Iran.Israel, America's closest Mideast ally, and other regional nations like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are deeply concerned about the influence of Iran and its allies, including the Shiite militant group Hezbollah, inside Syria. The U.S. military presence in Syria has been seen as a buffer against unchecked Iranian activity, and especially against Tehran's desire to establish a contiguous land route from Iran to the Mediterranean coast in Lebanon.An American withdrawal would also likely cede Syria to Russia, which along with Iran has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad's forces and would surely fill the void left behind by the U.S. That prospect has alarmed countries like France, which has historic ties to the Levant.In calling for a withdrawal "very soon," Trump may be overly optimistic in his assessment of how quickly the anti-IS campaign can be wrapped up, the officials said. Although the group has been driven from basically all of the territory it once controlled in Iraq and 95 percent of its former territory in Syria, the remaining five percent is becoming increasingly difficult to clear and could take many months, the officials said.Advertisement___Associated Press writers Robert Burns and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By STEVEN ERLANGERMARCH 14, 2018
BRUSSELS — The operatic ouster of Rex Tillerson leaves a State Department angry and adrift, and a world even more confused about the management and direction of American foreign policy, hoping but not expecting that the change leads to greater coherence in Washington.The angst is being felt especially acutely among European leaders. With the back-to-back resignation of Gary Cohn, Mr. Trump’s top economic adviser, and the firing of Mr. Tillerson they fear the period of “benign neglect” they have experienced so far from Mr. Trump is over.Mr. Tillerson was roundly criticized by a much-demoralized diplomatic corps, accused of gutting budgets and staffing levels in a reflection of what many see as a long, downward trajectory of the State Department’s influence.But for allies, in particular, he was also seen as “one of the grown-ups” and a relative voice of reason, even comfort, in comparison with his boss’s brash impulsiveness.AdvertisementMr. Trump’s move to replace him with Mike Pompeo, who was running the C.I.A., appears part of a forceful shift by the president to surround himself with a more like-minded cast. Mr. Tillerson was reported to have called his boss “a moron.” His successor has been an outspoken Trump supporter.AdvertisementSome expect that the potential alignment of views may usher in greater consistency from the Trump administration, but not necessarily on the positions America’s allies want.With Mr. Trump’s new tariffs and the growing likelihood that he will abrogate the Iran deal, not to speak of his continued criticism of both NATO and the European Union, they are worried that Mr. Trump will further damage diplomatic relations.“It’s tough these days to be an ally,” sighed one senior European ambassador to Washington, who would not be named in keeping with diplomatic protocol.Mr. Tillerson’s ugly firing by Twitter underscored to allies and enemies that President Trump is “the decider,” as George W. Bush used to say.But it is also another indication of a long trend toward the centralization of foreign-policy decision-making in the White House and away from the State Department, said Jeremy Shapiro, a former senior State Department official now with the European Council on Foreign Relations.“Consecutive administrations have not trusted the State Department and increasingly written them out, and that’s worse today,” Mr. Shapiro said. “They have been losing some good, talented and dedicated people, but the truth is that those people weren’t in a position to help the administration anyway in what it wants to do.”Some countries, like China, Japan and France, have focused their efforts on the White House and Mr. Trump himself. While many ambassadorships have gone unfilled, Mr. Shapiro said, that role in his view is increasingly less important in a world of modern media and communications.Advertisement“The more important problem is the way this administration treats allies and the Europeans,” he said. “But that’s not a Tillerson problem. It’s a Trump problem.”These trends, plus Mr. Trump’s trust in his instincts rather than in expertise, had left America’s career diplomats alienated and demoralized.Then came Mr. Tillerson, who decided to try to remake the department by cutting its budget by 30 percent and failing — or failing to get the White House — to appoint senior officials and ambassadors in critical places like Germany, Turkey, Brussels, Egypt and Seoul.In response, many up-and-coming midcareer diplomats were fired or quit, causing R. Nicholas Burns, a former senior State Department official now at Harvard, and another diplomat, Ryan C. Crocker, to warn of the “dismantling of the foreign service,” which is facing “its greatest crisis” at a time “when we need it most.”Mr. Tillerson’s short tenure also explodes a persistent myth that private sector experience is valuable in making the government work smarter and more efficiently, said Leslie Vinjamuri, a professor at SOAS University of London and an associate in the America’s program at Chatham House.“Tillerson alienated his staff without improving America’s image abroad and failed to bring the media with him,” she said.Many cheered Mr. Tillerson’s dismissal, including Martin Indyk, a former American ambassador now at the Brookings Institution, who said in a Twitter message that it was overdue and that Mr. Pompeo should bring back the career staffers who had quit in “despair.”
            Tillerson’s removal comes not a moment too soon for America’s diplomats. Hopefully, Pompeo will recognize their talent, experience and patriotic desire to help him succeed. He should welcome back those who left in despair or were forced out for no good reason.        Jeffrey Hawkins, a career State Department official and former ambassador to the Central African Republic until he resigned last September, spoke for many diplomats.“I don’t think there will be a Secretary of State less missed than Rex Tillerson,” he said. “This is a man who was declaring war on the institution” for a White House “led by people who don’t believe in the mission of the agency,” Mr. Hawkins said.Advertisement“This man apparently felt he was dealing with a broken institution that needed massive surgery,” he added. “Not only did it not cure it, it left the patient flatlined.”Yet allies fear that Mr. Tillerson’s ouster silences a pragmatic voice for traditional Republican foreign and trade policies, one that European diplomats felt was often on their side.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.They are especially worried now that Mr. Trump will in May repudiate the Iran nuclear deal, which Mr. Pompeo opposed from the start. They are already talking more seriously about how to protect European companies and banks from renewed American sanctions on Iran.Whatever Mr. Tillerson’s failings, said Charles Grant, director of the Center for European Reform, “he was a mainstream Republican, he was one of the grown-ups.”“On trade he was sensible and on Iran his view is the European view,” Mr. Grant added, “and it is worrying that the President may have a Secretary of State who might make it easier for him to pursue his course on Iran.”Ellie Geranmayeh, an Iran expert at the European Council on Foreign Relations, noted that French, German and British diplomats had been working with Brian Hook, Mr. Tillerson’s senior aide, to pacify Mr. Trump on the Iran deal by developing new ways to restrain Tehran’s missile development and regional support for the Syrian government and groups like Hezbollah and Hamas, while still preserving the agreement.“Tillerson was the comfort voice for Europeans, who would help identify the room for compromise,” she said. “But with Pompeo, the Europeans and Iranians should expect much less room for flexibility.”From the Balkans to east and Central Europe, the disconnect and diminished influence of American diplomats has played out in other ways, too.AdvertisementLast week, it was reported that President Andrej Duda of Poland had declined to take a call from Mr. Tillerson — apparently on the grounds that the two were not on equal footing. Mr. Duda’s office did not deny it.In Asia there was similar confusion, especially with the prospect of a summit meeting between Mr. Trump and the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.South Korean officials have been working through the White House and Mr. Pompeo at the C.I.A. already, as the State Department seemed increasingly sidelined.Mr. Tillerson, after all, was chastised by Mr. Trump for suggesting negotiations with North Korea, and then was left out of the decision when Mr. Trump suddenly changed his mind.As a remedy, some, like Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, have shifted to relying on direct, close relations with the president, rather than cabinet secretaries.But it is not clear how much even such relations matter when President Trump makes decisions on impulse rather than through close consultation with advisers.Like others, Japan, too, was left unnerved by Mr. Trump’s impromptu decision to hold a summit with Mr. Kim. Its foreign minister, Taro Kono, was planning to visit Washington later this week to meet Mr. Tillerson, and instead is likely instead to try to meet Mr. Pompeo.On social media, an opposition lawmaker, Akihisa Nagashima, a former vice defense minister, praised Mr. Tillerson as a “sensible person” and commented: “I cannot help worrying that the U.S.-North Korea summit meeting will fail and that a turn to a course of military conflicts will be real.”AdvertisementFor China, like Japan, there was comfort in the perception that good relations start with Mr. Trump himself. But Mr. Pompeo’s harder-line views on North Korea and China itself were a major source of concern.At the C.I.A., Mr. Pompeo called China “the great threat for the U.S. in the long term” and has warned about China’s efforts to infiltrate the United States military, tech and educational institutions.“Pompeo advocates a preventive war against North Korea to prevent it from attacking the United States,” said Song Guoyou, deputy director of the Center for American Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai. “If Trump’s meeting with Kim Jung-un fails, the Trump administration will have a strong voice that supports a war against North Korea.”In some corners there was outright anxiety.“I doubt Pompeo will be a moderate force on U.S.-China relations,” said Bonnie Glaser, a China expert at the Center for International and Strategic Studies. “He is no panda hugger.”Reporting was contributed by Adam Nossiter from Paris; Echo Hui and Jane Perlez from Beijing; Motoko Rich from Tokyo; Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea; Stephen Castle from London; Melissa Eddy from Berlin; Raphael Minder from Madrid; and Marc Santora from Warsaw.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 4:34 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  Scott Pruitt, administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, turned his sights this week on a nearly half-century-old federal waiver that allows California to pursue its own, tough tailpipe emission standards, and allows other states to opt in to California's standards rather than federal ones if they choose.The waiver has allowed California, the U.S. state with the most people and the biggest economy, to steer the rest of nation toward tougher limits on car and truck emissions that pollute the air and change the climate.Pruitt said this week the agency will work with all states, including California, to set new pollution and mileage standards for gas- and diesel-powered vehicles.Here's a look at California's unique waiver from federal emissions standards for cars, why it matters to the rest of the country, and what could happen if the Trump administration moves against California's ability to set its own vehicle-emissions standards.Advertisement___WHAT IS THE WAIVER?A combination of climate, geography and a lot of cars and trucks has given California some of the worst smog in the country, especially in the Los Angeles basin and other inland valleys. To fight that, California has regulated vehicle-tailpipe emissions since before 1970, when the EPA and the federal Clean Air Act came into force. Because of that, Congress wrote an exemption into the landmark Clean Air Act: California could seek waivers to set its own limits for pollutants from cars as long as its rules were at least as tough as federal standards. Since then, Democratic and Republican administrations have renewed California's waiver dozens of times. A Trump administration challenge would revive an abortive 2007 effort by the Bush administration to block California's power to set its own emissions rules.Advertisement___WHY DOES THE WAIVER MATTER?While the California waiver is unique, at least 12 other states in the Northeast and elsewhere have chosen to opt into the tougher tailpipe emissions standards that California sets. That means up to 40 percent of cars on the road nationwide follow California's emissions standards.Gasoline and diesel exhaust is a main source of pollutants and gases that endanger public health and are changing the climate. California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, wants to reduce the state's climate-changing greenhouse-gas emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. Receiving continued federal waivers for progressively tougher state emissions standards will be a critical part of that.Currently the federal and California standards are the same.Some car manufacturers and conservative groups want the EPA to roll back federal controls on greenhouse-gas emissions from vehicles, arguing for a single emission standard set by the federal government. That makes the question of whether California's waiver survives still more critical nationally.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___WHAT HAPPENS IF THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION MOVES AGAINST THE WAIVER?California officials have vowed to fight to preserve the state's waiver."We're ready to file suit if needed to protect these critical standards and to fight the Administration's war on our environment," California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said Monday in a statement. "California didn't become the sixth-largest economy in the world by spectating."The Trump administration would have a tough fight legally if it tries to revoke California's waiver outright, especially since it's stood for nearly a half-century, said Richard Frank, director of the California Environmental Law and Policy Center at the University of California, Davis.California would have "somewhat less of a powerful argument" legally, however, if the Trump administration refuses to renew the waiver the next time the state comes before the EPA with a plan to tighten state emissions rules, Frank said.President George W. Bush's administration made its own move against California's unique say on emissions standards in 2007, for the first time denying California its waiver.Before courts could decide the matter conclusively, the Obama administration reversed that waiver denial in 2009.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 25, 2018, 11:14 P.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  The United States has agreed to exempt South Korea from steel tariffs, South Korea's trade ministry said on Monday, instead imposing a quota on steel imports as the two countries renegotiate a trade deal sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald Trump.South Korea had meanwhile agreed to give ground on automobile trade regulations by agreeing to changes in the bilateral free trade deal known as KORUS, the ministry said.In April, Trump told Reuters he would either renegotiate or terminate what he called a “horrible” trade deal that has doubled the U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea since 2012.The agreement means South Korea becomes the first U.S. ally to receive an indefinite exemption, albeit with quota, on steel tariffs imposed by Trump, a move that had fueled concerns of a damaging global trade war.AdvertisementLast week, Trump temporarily excluded six trade partners, including Canada and Mexico, Australia and the European Union  from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum which came into effect on Friday.AdvertisementThe import duties, of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, were mainly aimed at curbing imports from China.South Korea has received a quota of about 2.68 million tonnes of steel exports, or 70 percent of the annual average Korean steel exports to the United States between 2015-2017, which will be exempt from the new tariffs, the ministry said in a statement.South Korea is the third-largest steel exporter to the United States and the world's top importer of Chinese steel, leading to concerns it was a conduit for China's excess capacity.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Shares in South Korean steelmakers rose sharply on Monday, with Dongbu Steel leading gains, on expectations of tariff exemptions. [nL3N1R805H]South Korea's steel association said in a statement it was a "relief" that South Korea has been excluded from U.S. steel tariffs, but it was regrettable it was unable to secure more quotas for steel exports.South Korea’s steel industry will "try to pave the way to ease U.S. restrictions on steel exports," the association said in a statement.South Korea and the United States also agreed that U.S. tariffs on Korean pickup trucks will be in place until 2041, extended by 20 years from the previous phase-out schedule of 2021.Under the revisions, U.S. automakers will be able to bring into South Korea each year 50,000 vehicles per automaker that meet U.S. safety standards, not necessarily Korean standards, up from 25,000 vehicles previously.South Korea also said it will "take into account U.S. standards and global trends" when Seoul decides its fuel economy and emissions rules from 2021 to 2015.Advertisement(Reporting by Joyce Lee and Hyunjoo Jin; Editing by Lincoln Feast)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and JONATHAN MARTINMARCH 16, 2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump persuaded a conservative businessman in Nevada to drop his primary challenge to a sitting Republican senator on Friday, effectively ending a populist revolt that Stephen K. Bannon once promised would scorch establishment Republican senators from coast to coast this year.Danny Tarkanian, a perennial candidate who had Mr. Bannon’s backing, withdrew from his race against Senator Dean Heller after a tweet from the president.
            It would be great for the Republican Party of Nevada, and it’s unity if good guy Danny Tarkanian would run for Congress and Dean Heller, who is doing a really good job, could run for Senate unopposed!        At Mr. Trump’s suggestion, he said he would run for an open seat in the House instead. His decision to drop out gives a significant boost to Mr. Heller, widely considered one of the most vulnerable Republican senators on the ballot this year.Earlier this week, another Bannon-backed candidate, the Mississippi state senator Chris McDaniel, dropped his challenge to Senator Roger Wicker, opting instead to run for the seat left open by the retirement of the state’s senior senator, Thad Cochran.AdvertisementBy making clear he would support Mr. Heller and Mr. Wicker in their primaries, Mr. Trump effectively starved their challengers of the political oxygen they needed to win over conservative activists. In his tweet, Mr. Trump said it “would be great for the Republican Party of Nevada, and it’s unity” if Mr. Heller could run unopposed.AdvertisementIn an interview, Mr. Tarkanian said he at first resisted Mr. Trump’s entreaties, which were conveyed to him by the president’s 2020 campaign manager, Brad Parscale. He said Mr. Trump had reached out to him by telephone last week, but the two never connected; he later told Mr. Parscale that if the president wanted him out, Mr. Trump should say so. So the president did, on Twitter.Mr. Tarkanian, whose father, Jerry Tarkanian, was a legendary basketball coach at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, said he “did not think it was the right decision,” but he added: “I grew up in an athletic family. When the coach tells you to do something, many times you don’t agree with it, but it’s your responsibility to do it.”It was a striking illustration of how much Mr. Trump has tightened his grip on the Republican Party: It is difficult to take on the party establishment when the face of the party is a president beloved by primary voters.“This is one of those moments where the president of the United States has correctly and fully utilized the influence he has as the titular head of the Republican Party,” said Scott Jennings, a Republican strategist who is close to Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader. “It’s the hand of Donald Trump, recognizing that we cannot afford to lose Senate seats because we are fighting with ourselves.”By ending their primaries against the two senators, Mr. McDaniel and Mr. Tarkanian snuffed out what was left of Mr. Bannon’s vision for remaking Congress with candidates in his populist mold. At one time, Mr. Bannon envisioned primaries in Mississippi, Nebraska, Arizona, Wyoming and Nevada.Now he has none.With Mr. Bannon exiled by the president and Mr. Trump getting along with congressional leaders and taking counsel from largely mainstream Republicans in the post-Bannon White House, there is little political space for right-wing insurgents to oust incumbents.Perhaps no one is happier about that than Mr. McConnell, whom Mr. Bannon had once threatened to unseat. Chris Pack, the spokesman for the Senate Leadership Fund, a political action committee that Mr. McConnell helped found to ensure the re-election of incumbents, was succinct on Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Who is Steve Bannon?” Mr. Pack asked wryly.Mr. Bannon declined to comment.Democrats said on Friday that the dynamics of the Nevada race had not changed much, and that they remained optimistic about their chances to pick up a Senate seat in a state won by Hillary Clinton. Mr. Tarkanian, party strategists said, has already caused lasting damage to Mr. Heller by forcing him into positions he will later regret in his campaign against Representative Jacky Rosen, the Democrat whose seat Mr. Tarkanian is now seeking. (Mr. Tarkanian lost to Ms. Rosen by about one percentage point in 2016.)AdvertisementLast year, for instance, Mr. Heller agonized for weeks over Republicans’ drive to repeal the Affordable Care Act, before finally siding with party leadership and voting to undo President Barack Obama’s signature health care law. Mr. Tarkanian pounced, accusing Mr. Heller of having “no convictions.” And Democrats are still reminding the senator of that vote.“Nevadans learned today what Senator Heller got for selling out their health care and putting himself and his party first,” Lauren Passalacqua, spokeswoman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said on Friday, adding that “no amount of Trump tweets” could save him.While Mr. Trump is often described as the ultimate insurgent, he is driven far more by personal interaction and whether he feels respected than by any ideological impulses. Mr. Wicker and Mr. Heller have spent months courting the president and taking care to note, publicly and privately, that they are in his corner.Their lobbying paid off. Mr. Trump reiterated his support for Mr. Wicker when Mr. McDaniel got in the race late last month, and on Friday the president showed Mr. Tarkanian to the door. Mr. McDaniel and Mr. Tarkanian had little choice but to give up their primaries: They were trying to carry a sort of pre-Trump message that was focused on purifying the Senate of moderation, hoping to link the incumbents to a flaccid establishment embodied by Mr. McConnell.This approach proved effective at times during the Obama years and was nearly enough to lift Mr. McDaniel in 2014, when he came close to unseating Mr. Cochran.But while Mr. McConnell is deeply unpopular among rank-and-file conservatives, he is not the animating force in today’s party — Mr. Trump is. While the challengers could easily persuade primary voters to oppose Mr. McConnell’s preferred candidates, it is a far more difficult task to get them to oppose their president.The one Republican senator who may have lost his seat in a primary this year was the one who has become one of Mr. Trump’s most outspoken critics: Jeff Flake of Arizona, who is retiring. In that race, the establishment Republican, Representative Martha McSally, is facing a primary challenge from Joe Arpaio, the controversial former sheriff of Maricopa County, and Kelli Ward, an osteopathic physician and former state senator who drew backing from Mr. Bannon last fall.Yet in another sign of how he is veering closer to the congressional leadership, Mr. Trump has not offered support to either of the hard-liners, something White House officials assured Ms. McSally he would not do before she agreed to enter the race.And more recently, in another sign of Mr. Bannon’s diminished influence, Ms. Ward disavowed him. “I am distancing myself from Steve Bannon,” she told CNN in an interview in January, adding, “I support the president.”Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 7:14 A.M. E.D.T.
JERUSALEM —  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is praising the U.S. government for passing a law that suspends some financial aid to the Palestinians over the stipends paid to families of Palestinians killed or jailed in fighting with Israel.The Taylor Force Act, named after an American killed in Israel by a Palestinian in 2016, was folded into a $1.3 trillion spending bill signed by President Donald Trump.On Sunday, Netanyahu called the law a "powerful signal by the U.S. that changes the rules" by cutting "hundreds of millions of dollars for the Palestinian Authority that they invest in encouraging terrorism."The Palestinians say the families are victims of violence. Palestinian official Nabil Abu Rdeneh condemned the law, saying it doesn't "allow for the creation of an atmosphere conducive to peace."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 9:33 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  Global stock markets fell for a second day Tuesday as investors continued to fret over a looming trade war between the U.S. and China and mounting public scrutiny of technology companies.Stocks have been trending lower for weeks largely because of a series of tariffs announced by U.S. President Donald Trump and the Facebook data privacy scandal, which has raised the prospect of tighter regulation for social media and other tech stocks.In the last week, Trump has also tweeted repeatedly about his new favorite foe, Amazon, whose owner also owns The Washington Post, which has been critical of the Trump administration.Trump has approved possible higher U.S. duties on $50 billion of Chinese goods in response to complaints that Beijing steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology. Those tariffs come on top of previous proposals to raise tariffs on imported steel and aluminum.AdvertisementIn response, China announced it is raising tariffs on $3 billion of U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipe, increasing the risk of a broader conflict that might depress global trade.Advertisement"The mood remains decidedly bearish, and there is certainly no shortage of reasons to be fearful," said Chris Beauchamp, chief market analyst at IG. "It's times like this when investors face a choice — whether to sit and await developments or plunge back in."That was evident in the performance of stocks on Tuesday.Returning from the long Easter holiday weekend, Europe's stock markets tracked others lower, though the scale of the losses were diminished by expectations of a rebound on Wall Street later.In Europe, Germany's DAX fell 0.8 percent to 11,999 while London's FTSE 100 declined 0.2 percent to 7,037. France's CAC 40 was 0.5 percent lower at 5,140.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Wall Street was poised for some solid gains at the open Tuesday with Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures up 0.5 percent. On Monday, the S&P posted its worst start to a quarter since October 2011 and saw the index fall below its 200-day moving average for the first time in almost 2 years.U.S. technology companies are in the spotlight, notably Amazon, which posted hefty losses of around 5 percent Monday after Trump again voiced his concerns about the company on Twitter.The sector was already in the gaze of investors after Facebook's data scandal last month that has raised the prospect of heightened regulation. Netflix, Microsoft and Google parent Alphabet have all seen their share prices decline."Pressure on the sector doesn't appear to be going away in the near-term which will continue to act as a drag on indices," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA.Earlier in Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.8 percent to 3,163.63 and Tokyo's Nikkei 225 shed 0.4 percent to 21,292.29. Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 declined 0.1 percent to 5,751.90. Elsewhere, Seoul's Kospi ended down 27 points at 2,442.43. Hong Kong's Hang Seng bucked the trend, ending up 0.2 percent at 30,137.49.Elsewhere, the euro was flat at $1.23 while the dollar rose 0.3 percent to 106.23 yen. In the oil markets, a barrel of U.S. crude gained 22 cents to $63.23 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange while Bren crude, used to price international oils, rose 29 cents to $67.93 in London.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Article of the Day By                     
 NATALIE PROULX
 
MARCH 7, 2018
Before reading the article: Read the first few paragraphs of the article:President Trump announced today that his administration would impose a 25 percent tariff on imported steel and a 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum, on the grounds that other countries’ trade practices endanger American national security by undermining domestic production. Here’s what you need to know.What is a tariff?It is simply a tax placed on some particular class of imported goods. If the Trump administration follows through on the president’s comments Thursday, a company bringing $100,000 of steel made in Canada into the United States would have to pay $25,000 to the government, effectively increasing its price. Tariffs are typically a governmental tool to protect domestic industries and raise revenue.Then study the graph from 2017 below.
                The Trump administration faces the problem that China’s high trade barriers are allowed by the World Trade Organization, because China entered the group as a developing country and insists it still is one.            What does this graph show? What conclusions can you draw about tariffs around the world from it? Based on the excerpt and this graph, why do you think many people are alarmed by President Trump’s announcement?Now, read the rest of the article, “The Real Risks of Trump’s Steel and Aluminum Tariffs,” and answer the following questions: 1. What are tariffs and for what purpose does the government generally use them?2. What are the two main reasons Mr. Trump has used to rationalize the tariffs on steel and aluminum?3. Who is helped by this move? Who might be hurt by it?4. How will consumers be affected?5. What could be some of the potential ripple effects?6. Ultimately, what is most at risk as a result of these tariffs?Finally, tell us more about what you think: The imposition of tariffs on imported steel and aluminum will have wide-reaching consequences for the domestic and global economy, American jobs and foreign affairs.AdvertisementChoose one of the articles below to read about the effects of tariffs in one of these areas:Trump Hates the Trade Deficit. Most Economists Don’t.President Trump’s fixation with America’s widening trade deficit is fueling his decision to impose stiff tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Only a small group of experts share Mr. Trump’s fixation, and few see tariffs as an effective tool to narrow the so-called trade gap.Trump’s Tariff Plan Leaves Blue-Collar Winners and LosersPresident Trump’s announcement that he planned to impose steep tariffs on imported steel and aluminum delighted some blue-collar industries he had championed. “Enthusiastic and gratified are probably understatements,” said Michael A. Bless, the president of Century Aluminum.Trump Reaffirms Commitment to Tariffs but Opens Door to CompromisePresident Trump, facing an angry chorus of protests from leaders of his own party, including the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, insisted on Monday that he would not back down from his plan to impose across-the-board tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. But the White House was devising ways to potentially soften the impact of the measures on major trading partners.Then, for whichever article you read, respond to the following questions:— What are the main reasons the group either supports or criticizes the Trump administration’s imposition of tariffs?Advertisement— What alternatives do they suggest?— Based on what you have read, what is your opinion about Mr. Trump’s tariff plan?We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:33 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Executives from major automakers raised concerns at the New York auto show this week about the possibility of a trade war after the Trump administration imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports earlier this month, especially at a time when U.S. sales of new vehicles are in decline."Protectionism doesn't have winners," Hinrich Woebcken, Volkswagen AG's North American chief executive, told Reuters. "When you start to raise bars, you are bringing an imbalance of trade that will not produce any winners."U.S. President Donald Trump imposed tariffs on aluminum and steel imports earlier this month that industry experts and manufacturers say could lower profits for companies making everything from pickup trucks to canned soup, or result in higher prices for consumers.Trump has criticized Germany for levying tariffs on vehicles shipped from the United States, and threatened to impose higher tariffs on German-made vehicles. That has made executives nervous in an industry that is global. The Trump administration has also proposed tariffs on Chinese goods.Advertisement"Everybody who does a lot of business with China would be concerned about a trade war," said Johan de Nysschen, head of General Motors Co's luxury Cadillac division. "A trade war would be harmful to that so we all hope that it does not happen." China is critical to Cadillac's future growth strategy, GM Chief Executive Mary Barra told investors on Wednesday.AdvertisementU.S. auto industry sales fell 2 percent last year to 17.23 million vehicles after hitting a record high in 2016.New vehicle sales are expected to drop further in 2018 despite a solid economy as interest rates rise.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Jack Hollis, Toyota Motor Corp's North American head of sales and marketing, said tariffs would mean higher prices."We'll all just have to raise prices ... because there's no way you can absorb" all that extra cost, he said.John Bozzella, head of Global Automakers, which represents Toyota, Hyundai Motor Co, Honda Motor Co Ltd and others, said the trade group is pushing to convince policymakers the tariffs do not make sense as automakers export 2 million vehicles annually from the United States.Scott Keogh, head of U.S. operations for Volkswagen's Audi brand, said the U.S. car market is built on "stability and confidence and we need to continue that.""If you look at the number one correlation that drives luxury car sales, it's consumer confidence," he said.(Reporting By Nick Carey; Editing by Steve Orlofsky)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018
BEIJING — China’s newly appointed economic czar told Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Saturday that Beijing was ready to defend its interests after President Trump announced plans to slap tariffs on billions of dollars worth of Chinese imports.Vice Premier Liu He told Mr. Mnuchin in a phone call that the order Mr. Trump signed on Thursday violated international trade rules, China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported.The White House says the planned tariffs are intended to punish Beijing for what it depicts as the theft of American technology.Xinhua quoted Mr. Liu as saying that China was “ready and capable of defending its national interest and hopes both sides will remain rational.”AdvertisementChina said Friday that it planned to raise tariffs on a $3 billion list of American goods, including pork, apples and steel pipes in response to the steel and aluminum duties announced earlier by Mr. Trump.AdvertisementThe Chinese move appeared to be a warning shot aimed at increasing domestic pressure on Mr. Trump by making clear which exporters, including those in farm areas that voted for the president in 2016, might be hurt.American farmers, from hog producers in Iowa to apple growers in Washington State to winemakers in California, expressed deep disappointment over being put in the middle of a potential trade war with China.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.China’s Commerce Ministry said Beijing was considering a tariff increase of 25 percent on pork and aluminum scrap, mirroring Mr. Trump’s 25 percent charge on steel. A second list of goods, including wine, apples, ethanol and stainless steel pipe, would be charged 15 percent, mirroring Mr. Trump’s tariff hike on aluminum.Over all, United States farmers shipped nearly $20 billion of goods to China in 2017. The American pork industry sent $1.1 billion in products, making China the No. 3 market for American pork.“No one wins in these tit-for-tat trade disputes, least of all the farmers and the consumers,” said Jim Heimerl, a pig farmer from Johnstown, Ohio, and the president of the National Pork Producers Council.The United States has complained for years about China’s sharp-elbowed trading practices, accusing it of pirating trade secrets, manipulating its currency, forcing foreign companies to hand over technology and flooding world markets with cheap steel and aluminum that drive down prices and put American manufacturers out of business.The spiraling trade dispute between the world’s two largest economies has spurred concerns among companies and investors that global commerce could be depressed.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 11:20 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The United States and South Korea have reached agreement on a revised trade pact that includes a side deal aimed at deterring competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and provides relief from U.S. tariffs on steel, senior Trump administration officials said on Tuesday.The agreement, which covers revisions to the U.S. South Korean Trade Agreement (KORUS), also includes concessions by Seoul on pickup trucks, U.S. car imports and a premium pricing programme for some pharmaceutical products.(Reporting by David Lawder; Writing by Eric Walsh; Editing by Sandra Maler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 27, 2018, 8:05 P.M. E.D.T.
GENEVA —  There is no sign that the United States is distancing itself from the World Trade Organization, and negotiations are underway to avert a global trade war, WTO Director-General Roberto Azevedo said in a BBC interview broadcast on Wednesday.U.S. President Donald Trump has launched a series of tariff-raising moves, upsetting allies and rivals alike.Trump is also vetoing the appointment of WTO judges, causing a backlog in disputes and threatening to paralyse what is effectively the supreme court of trade. Some trade experts have begun asking if Trump wants to kill the WTO, whose 164 members force each other to play by the rules."I have absolutely no indication that the United Sates is walking away from the WTO. Zero indication," Azevedo said in an interview on the BBC Hardtalk programme, according to excerpts released early by the BBC.AdvertisementLast month Trump called the WTO a "catastrophe", and complained the United States had only a minority of its judges. The next day Azevedo gently set him straight, noting that the United States had an unusually good deal, since it had always had one of the seven judges.AdvertisementAsked if the WTO should be thinking about a Plan B without the United States, Azevedo told the BBC that he had not heard anything to suggest that such a situation was on the cards.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Every contact that I have in the U.S. administration assures me that they are engaging," he said.The question of whether U.S. tariffs were legal could only be settled by a WTO dispute panel but the damage from such unilateral actions would be felt much more quickly as other countries retaliated, leading to a global trade war, he said."I don't think we are there yet but we are seeing the first movements towards it, yes."Nobody believed it was a minor problem, including those in the U.S. administration, and people were beginning to understand how serious the situation was and what impact it could have on the global economy, Azevedo said."There are still negotiations ongoing," he said. "Now that doesn't mean that we should downplay that – you don't want to be in the war. We want to avoid the war so everything that we can do to avoid being in that situation we must be doing at this point."(Reporting by Tom Miles)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:55 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Two senior U.S. Republican senators asked the Trump administration on Monday to allow the sale of Lockheed Martin Corp. F-35 fighter jets to Taiwan, saying it would help it "remain a democracy" in the face of threats from China."These fighters will have a positive impact on Taiwan's self-defense and would act as a necessary deterrent to China's aggressive military posture across the Asia-Pacific region," Senators John Cornyn, the assistant majority leader, and James Inhofe, a senior member of the Armed Services Committee, said in a letter to President Donald Trump."After years of military modernization, China shows the ability to wage war against Taiwan for the first time since the 1950's," they wrote. "However, with your leadership, it is possible to help Taiwan remain a democracy, free to establish a relationship with China that is not driven by military coercion."The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The sale of the jets could increase tensions with Beijing, where officials were infuriated when Trump signed legislation this month that encourages the United States to send senior officials to Taiwan to meet Taiwanese counterparts and vice versa.AdvertisementThe U.S. military has put countering China and Russia at the center of a new national defense strategy unveiled by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis in January.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Other U.S. allies in the Asia Pacific region, such as Singapore, also are exploring the purchase of the stealthy F-35.Lockheed hit its 2017 target to deliver 66 F-35 fighter jets to the United States and its allies last year.Advertisement(Reporting by Patricia Zengerle, additional reporting by Mike Stone; editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By JIM RUTENBERG, KATE KELLY, JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and MIKE McINTIREMARCH 29, 2018
In July, David J. Pecker, the chairman of the company that owns The National Enquirer, visited his old friend President Trump at the White House.The tabloid publisher took along a special guest, Kacy Grine, a French businessman who advises one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men and sometimes acts as an intermediary between Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Western businesses.The two men and other Pecker associates chatted with the president in the Oval Office and briefly met with Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and Middle East envoy, Jared Kushner. Before moving on to dinner with the group, the president had a photographer snap pictures of the guests standing with him behind his desk.Mr. Pecker has long used his media empire to protect Mr. Trump’s image. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Pecker’s company, American Media Inc., suppressed the story of a former Playboy model who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump.AdvertisementThe night of the dinner, Mr. Pecker got something from Mr. Trump: an unofficial seal of approval from the White House.AdvertisementIt was an opportune moment for Mr. Pecker to showcase his White House connections. He was considering expanding his media and events businesses into Saudi Arabia and also was hunting for moneyed partners in acquisitions.The intersection of the tabloid publisher with the Saudis, enhanced by the White House visit, is a previously untold chapter in the long, symbiotic relationship between the president and Mr. Pecker, which was forged in the 1990s. At the time, Mr. Trump was celebrating a real estate comeback after his casino bankruptcies and was both the subject and the source of much gossip in New York.Mr. Pecker, who had known Mr. Grine only for a few months, invited him to the dinner to thank him for advice he had provided about investing in the Middle East, according to someone who knew of the invitation.Word soon traveled back to Saudi Arabia about the dinner: It signaled Mr. Pecker’s powerful status in Washington.Two months later, he was in Saudi Arabia, meeting with Mr. Grine and the crown prince about business opportunities there, according to A.M.I.And by January, Mr. Pecker was confident enough about his growing rapport with Saudi investors that he sought their help bankrolling a possible acquisition of Time magazine, which he had long coveted, according to two people with direct knowledge of the talks. A.M.I. disputed that.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.The people briefed on the interactions between A.M.I. and Saudi Arabia requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly.The outcome of Mr. Pecker’s efforts to do business with the Saudis remains unclear. But he is still working to cultivate ties. This week, he and Mr. Grine both attended events in New York featuring Prince Mohammed, who is on a tour across the United States.AdvertisementAhead of that visit, A.M.I. published a 97-page glossy magazine that is essentially a promotional brochure for Saudi Arabia and the crown prince. It makes no mention of anything troubling, like the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen, human rights concerns or the crown prince’s arrest last fall of many extended royals, including Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, an influential client of Mr. Grine’s.The magazine — which refers to Saudi Arabia throughout as “the Magic Kingdom” — includes an interview with Mr. Grine, accompanied by a photo of him posing with Mr. Trump in the Oval Office, taken during his visit with Mr. Pecker. It talks up the relationship between Mr. Trump and the Saudis, noting that Mr. Trump “endorsed the crown prince’s high profile anticorruption” crackdown.A.M.I. has said it produced the magazine to “capitalize” on interest in the crown prince, who is next in line to the throne, and has been careful to say it received no input or guidance from Saudi officials. That carries important legal implications: Foreign direction or control of such a purely promotional publication may require disclosure to the Justice Department. The Saudi government did not respond to a request for comment.The magazine — 200,000 copies distributed in Walmart and other outlets, with a cover price of $13.99 and no advertising — provided a unique welcome mat for the prince, whose visit comes as the Trump administration is trying to establish tighter ties with the kingdom. Both countries are touting cross-border investment opportunities, including a pledge by the Saudi government to put $20 billion into a fund that will invest in American infrastructure projects. The kingdom is also nearing a deal to buy American-made missiles and other military equipment.Mr. Grine, a 30-year-old French citizen, has helped broker deals between Saudi investors and companies in France, Senegal and the United States. He and Mr. Pecker were introduced last spring by Ari Emanuel, chief executive of Endeavor, the huge talent, entertainment and sports company based in Beverly Hills, Calif.Mr. Grine and Mr. Pecker soon had a series of discussions about the investment landscape in Saudi Arabia, according to a person briefed on the talks. Mr. Pecker extended the White House dinner invitation shortly afterward.A.M.I. would not say who else was among the “select group of friends” Mr. Pecker took to the White House at the president’s invitation. During the evening, the Middle East and the recent French elections came up. In a statement, A.M.I. said, “The entire conversation was social, with the exception of a couple very brief mentions of current events.”AdvertisementMr. Pecker is best known for The Enquirer, but his media empire is wide-ranging. A.M.I.’s titles include Men’s Journal, Hers, Flex and Muscle & Fitness.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The publisher has used the company at times to protect close friends, including Mr. Trump. Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, recently filed a lawsuit alleging that Mr. Trump’s lawyer was secretly involved when A.M.I. tried to bury her story about an affair with Mr. Trump. A.M.I. bought the rights to her story during the presidential campaign for $150,000 but never published it. In the world of gossip media, such a maneuver is known as a “catch and kill” operation.Mr. Trump’s lawyer Michael D. Cohen and A.M.I. have denied the allegations. Mr. Trump’s representatives say the affair never happened.During the campaign, The Enquirer also published scathing articles about Mr. Trump’s rivals, as well as perceived antagonists like the television host Megyn Kelly. In promoting Mr. Trump, The Enquirer endorsed a candidate for the first time in its history.Since he entered the White House, A.M.I. titles have run articles alleging a “deep state” plot to undermine Mr. Trump. As scandals engulfed the White House, a recent Enquirer cover blared: “Donald & Melania Fight Back! Exposing the Lies, Leaks and Intimidation. How They’ll Crush Their Enemies!”The support appears mutual. Mr. Trump at times has praised Mr. Pecker’s stewardship of A.M.I. He once endorsed Mr. Pecker to run Time magazine, whose cover, Mr. Trump has incorrectly asserted, has featured him more than anyone else.“David Pecker would be a brilliant choice as CEO of TIME Magazine — nobody could bring it back like David!” Mr. Trump wrote in a Tweet in 2013.Asked about Mr. Pecker’s interest in Time, A.M.I.’s chief content officer, Dylan Howard, said, “Any media executive worth his or her salt must look at any acquisition opportunity in today’s media climate.”A.M.I. has struggled financially. It went through a series of restructurings in the last decade, including a bankruptcy in 2010 in which the company reported up to $1 billion in debts, before being acquired four years ago by two private equity funds.AdvertisementThe company said in a statement that it was “in an incredibly stable financial position.”Mr. Pecker has continued to hunt for new acquisitions. Last year, he bought Us Weekly from Wenner Media. But money remained scarce, according to A.M.I.’s financial advisers. When Mr. Pecker’s friend Harvey Weinstein suggested last fall that they team up to purchase Rolling Stone, Mr. Pecker expressed little interest. “I can not contribute any cash,” he wrote in an email obtained by The New York Times.In that same Sept. 28 exchange, he wrote to Mr. Weinstein: “I am in Saudi Arabia on business. Can’t call from here.”During the visit to Saudi Arabia, Mr. Grine arranged for himself and Mr. Pecker to meet with Prince Mohammed, who is the chairman of the kingdom’s deep-pocketed Public Investment Fund. At the meeting, Mr. Pecker described his vision for expanding his events business, which includes the Mr. Olympia bodybuilding competition, into Saudi Arabia.Maggie Haberman and Megan Twohey contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tabloid Mogul Visited Trump To Woo Saudis.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By KATIE ROGERSAPRIL 1, 2018
PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump, blaming Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly “dangerous” flow of illegal immigrants, unleashed a series of fiery tweets on Sunday in which he vowed “NO MORE DACA DEAL” and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.Minutes after wishing the nation a happy Easter Sunday, Mr. Trump denounced “liberal” laws that he said were preventing Border Patrol agents from doing their jobs. He said that Republicans should use the “nuclear option” to sidestep Democratic opposition in the Senate and enact “tough laws NOW.”It was unclear whether the president’s tweets represented any change in his immigration policy, or were just the sort of venting he is known to do after reading a newspaper article or seeing a television program. The president, who spent much of his holiday weekend golfing with supporters and watching television, was apparently reacting to a “Fox and Friends” segment on immigration that had aired minutes before.Whatever his intention, Mr. Trump’s Twitter outburst captured the fickle tendencies that have driven his policy positions on immigration. On one hand, he has suggested at times that he is open to extending citizenship to millions of undocumented people. On the other hand, he has denounced those who have entered the country illegally as brutal criminals and raged about lax enforcement that he said had allowed immigrants to pour into the country.AdvertisementIn his tweets, Mr. Trump referred to “caravans” of immigrants heading north toward the United States-Mexico border — a subject that was addressed on the Fox program. A group of hundreds of Central Americans has been traveling through Mexico toward the United States, where some hope to seek asylum or sneak across the border. A reporter for BuzzFeed has been traveling with the group as it makes its way north.AdvertisementAs he walked into church in Palm Beach on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump did not respond to a question from reporters about whether his tweets meant that he would no longer support any deal for the young immigrants protected by the DACA program. But he said that “Mexico has got to help us at the border, and a lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA.”The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, gave protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. The program requires immigrants to have resided in the United States since 2007, meaning any crossing the border now would not be eligible.Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program, but courts have blocked his decision. He has said he is open to negotiating with Democrats on it, but has repeatedly backed away from potential deals that he argues do not include immigration changes that are tough enough.Outside the church on Sunday, the president said the Democrats “blew it” after having “had a great chance.”“But we’ll have to take a look,” he added.Several Democrats challenged the idea that they were at fault for a breakdown in negotiations.“‘NO MORE DACA DEAL’?!!” Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota wrote on Twitter. “You were never doing a DACA deal. Your actions gave you away: cancelling DACA with no plan, making racist comments about Black/Brown immigrants, ejecting several by bipartisan deals. You didn’t fool anybody.”Representative Dwight Evans, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said on Twitter that DACA recipients were “students, military service members, teachers, scientists, doctors, and lawyers — they are integral members of our community.”AdvertisementMr. Evans said the president’s comments were “simply unacceptable.”The president’s remarks also drew a rebuke from a high-profile member of his own party. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio wrote on Twitter: “A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesn’t take hope from innocent children who call America home.”Mr. Trump directed an equal measure of anger at Mexico, saying the country was “doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S.” He said Mexican leaders “must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“NEED WALL!” he added.It was far from the first time that Mr. Trump has threatened to scrap Nafta as he pushes to change American trade policies that he says have hurt the United States economy and cost the country large numbers of jobs. The United States, Mexico and Canada are locked in difficult negotiations over a revamping of the trade pact.The president’s tweets seemed at odds with some unifying steps taken last week by members of his administration: The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, met with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss ways to work together on security and trade issues, according to a description of the conversation released by the Department of Homeland Security.But Mr. Trump may have been hearing a harder-line administration voice over the weekend. He was accompanied to his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago, by Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s tough stance on immigration.The president, in his tweets, criticized what he called “Catch & Release,” a practice in which detained undocumented immigrants are sometimes released as they wait for a hearing before an immigration judge. In some cases, they are released because the government has nowhere to house them.Critics say the practice — which, contrary to the president’s tweet, is not enshrined in law — gives the immigrants an opening to skip their hearing and settle undetected in the country. The Trump administration has declared an end to the practice, though it may take a while before significant changes are carried out.Mr. Trump’s tweets on Sunday echoed remarks on “Fox and Friends” by Brandon Judd, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, whom the president has praised in the past.“Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate, they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want,” Mr. Judd said on the program. “They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program that’ll allow us to hold them for a long time.”AdvertisementMr. Judd also said that the “catch and release” policy was helping to lure the caravan of Central Americans to the United States.A representative for a group called Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which organized the caravan, said that it would take four to six weeks before it reached the United States-Mexico border, and that the number of participants would be significantly smaller by then.Most people are likely to drop out of the caravan in Mexico, rather than journey all the way to the border, the representative said, because they know they would be turned back by American border officials.“Many of them know they won’t qualify for asylum. They are afraid of being detained,” said Roberto Corona, the group’s communications director, adding that most of them just wanted to reach Mexico, where they plan to speak with members of that country’s Congress.Migrants who cannot prove that they face persecution or that their lives are endangered in their home country are unlikely to be allowed to remain in the United States. The Trump administration has also sought to increase detentions to deter would-be migrants.Ron Nixon and Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting from Washington, and Miriam Jordan from Los Angeles.A version of this article appears in print on April 2, 2018, on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: As Refugee Caravan Heads North, Trump Rails Against DACA and Nafta.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NICHOLAS FANDOS and MATTHEW LUXMOOREMARCH 12, 2018
WASHINGTON — Top Democratic leaders in the House and Senate implored President Trump on Monday to employ “all resources available” to extradite 13 Russians charged last month with subverting the 2016 presidential election after Russia’s president raised the possibility of Jewish involvement.“Ensuring these Russian nationals stand trial in the United States is imperative for deterring Russia from future attacks on our democracy and would be a signal to those who seek to meddle with our election that such actions are not without consequences,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the top Democrat in his chamber, and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in the House, wrote in a letter to the White House.Jewish groups in the United States and some Israeli politicians also joined in an uproar over comments by the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, in which he appeared to suggest that Jews might have been behind the hacking attack on the 2016 election in the United States.In an interview broadcast on NBC News over the weekend, Mr. Putin was asked about the 13 Russian citizens charged by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, looking into the election interference. The question prompted a long, meandering response from Mr. Putin.Advertisement“Maybe they are not even Russians,” Mr. Putin mused, “but Ukrainians, Tatars or Jews, but with Russian citizenship, which should also be checked. Maybe they have dual citizenship or a Green Card. Maybe the U.S. paid them for this. How can you know that? I do not know either.”AdvertisementWithin hours, the comment was shared widely on social media. Many commentators considered it a clear echo of the anti-Semitism that has plagued Russia’s history since at least the 19th century.Nachman Shai, an Israeli legislator, called the Russian leader’s remarks a classic example of anti-Semitism. “His comments show that nothing has changed in viewing the Jews as responsible for all the world’s evil,” he wrote on Twitter. “This demands a strong reaction from the government of Israel.”Jonathan A. Greenblatt, chief executive of the New York-based Anti-Defamation League, said that Mr. Putin’s comment was redolent of the “Protocols of the Elders of Zion,” a forged document frequently cited by anti-Semites since its emergence in 19th-century Russia. “It is deeply disturbing to see the Russian president giving new life to classic anti-Semitic stereotypes that have plagued his country for hundreds of years,” he said in a statement.Among Democrats in Congress, patience with the White House’s silence in the face of such Kremlin provocations is running thin. Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi were joined by the top Democrats on the chambers’ respective judiciary committees, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California and Jerrold Nadler of New York.“While Putin’s stance is not surprising, it is also simply unacceptable,” they wrote in their letter.Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat in the House, said Mr. Putin’s comment “speaks to anti-Semitic tropes that have spurred intolerance and ethnic violence for centuries, and it is disturbing that this type of anti-Semitism has seen a recent resurgence among populist, far-right leaders around the world. That President Trump has failed to condemn Putin’s statement, just as he equivocated on Charlottesville, undermines America’s moral responsibility to combat the kind of racism and anti-Semitism perniciously re-emerging today.”The Democratic letter outlines several steps that the Justice and State departments could take to try to force their extradition, such as pressing Interpol to issue what is effectively an international arrest warrant and using existing diplomatic channels, including raising the issue directly with Mr. Putin.AdvertisementAn Interpol notice “can severely restrict a fugitive’s ability to live and travel overseas,” they wrote.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The indictment of the Russian nationals does not directly say that the Russian government sponsored the election interference campaign, but top American intelligence officials have publicly said that Mr. Putin directed and oversaw it.Mr. Putin, in his extended, evasive answer, seemed to delight in speculating about various possibilities including that the hacking never happened, and that if it did, Russia had nothing to do with it, or that maybe it was the work of an American citizen living in Russia, or of Russian free agents working on their own or for an American company. Only then did he come out with the line about Ukrainians, Tatars and Jews.However, Mr. Putin’s comment may well have been lost in translation.Speaking in Russian to the NBC presenter Megyn Kelly, Mr. Putin spoke of “Russkie,” a term denoting ethnic Russians in opposition to other nationalities living in the country. Many Russian Jews have long self-identified as separate from ethnic Russians — a source of confusion among Americans who may miss the nuance.“When I first came to America in 1991 and was asked at J.F.K. airport, ‘Are you Russian?’ I responded ‘No, sir, I’m Jewish,’” said Boruch Gorin, a senior aide to Russia’s chief rabbi, Berel Lazar, who has been supportive of the Russian leader. “Putin’s comments were lost in translation.”However, Mr. Gorin noted that the Russian president rarely makes an effort to be politically correct, and in his speeches often intentionally separates ethnic Russians from the country’s minorities. Mr. Putin is clued up on political sensitivities in the West, and often seems to delight in skirting right along the edge of what is acceptable to Western audiences.For instance, knowing that gay rights is an important issue in the West but is viewed with broad distaste at home, Mr. Putin in 2004 made a dig that appeared to combine that distaste with an equal widespread aversion to popular uprisings.“When it comes to the post-Soviet space, what concerns me are attempts to resolve political questions through extralegal means,” he said at a news conference as a series of mass uprisings was sweeping the post-Soviet space. “The creation of a system of permanent revolutions, whether they be pink, or light blue.”AdvertisementMr. Putin flatly denied Kremlin involvement in the 2016 election interference in his interview with NBC.“Why have you decided the Russian authorities, myself included, gave anybody permission to do this?” he asked.He also said that he “couldn’t care less” if Russians had attempted to meddle in the election and said he would never extradite those charged to the United States to stand trial.The issue is a fraught one for Mr. Trump. He has repeatedly called Mr. Mueller’s investigation a “witch hunt” and views American conclusions about Russian meddling as a threat to his legitimacy as president. Democrats and some Republicans have blasted him for not responding to the Russian effort more aggressively.Mr. Trump said last year that Mr. Putin had assured him the Russians did not interfere in the campaign. “I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it,” Mr. Trump said at the time.The Democrats’ letter also sounds an alarm about this year’s midterm elections, warning that despite Mr. Putin’s claims, Russian efforts are ongoing and must be taken seriously before November.“It is extraordinary and confounding how little your administration is doing to counter Putin’s campaign to undermine our grand democracy,” the Democrats wrote.Nicholas Fandos reported from Washington, and Matthew Luxmoore from Moscow. Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Putin Mention of Jews Spurs Calls for U.S. to Extradite Russians.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By KATIE ROGERS and JIM TANKERSLEYMARCH 29, 2018
RICHFIELD, Ohio — President Trump heralded a new trade agreement with South Korea at his first public appearance in nearly a week on Thursday, but then immediately suggested that he might delay finalizing it while negotiating with North Korea over its nuclear program.“I may hold it up until after a deal is made with North Korea,” Mr. Trump said, immediately after celebrating the new agreement. “Does everybody understand that? You know why, right? You know why? Because it’s a very strong card.”He added, “We’ll probably hold that deal up for a little while, see how it all plays out.”It was unclear what leverage Mr. Trump believed he could gain in the North Korea talks by delaying the deal with the South. The move could be an attempt by Mr. Trump to prod President Moon Jae-in of South Korea to hold a firm line with North Korea when talks begin over its nuclear program. Raj Shah, a White House spokesman, said in a statement that South Korea and the United States had reached an agreement “in principle.”“The president, taking into account all relevant considerations — including negotiations with North Korea — will determine the best time to sign a finalized agreement on behalf of the United States,” he said.AdvertisementBut Mr. Trump’s comments seemed to undercut a weeklong White House effort to promote the agreement. And they were in keeping with the at-times confusing tone of Mr. Trump’s speech at a muddy-floored training center for union workers here in this Cleveland suburb: His appearance was billed as an attempt to promote his infrastructure plan, but Mr. Trump addressed it only briefly near the end of his remarks, and said it was unlikely to pass soon.AdvertisementAfter a week marked by persistent scandals and high-profile staff departures, policy was not at the forefront of the president’s mind. Mr. Trump seemed intently focused on delivering his own progress report to supporters on a range of red-meat issues, including his zeal for improving border security, his promise to construct a border wall with Mexico, his administration’s efforts to roll back what he called “job killing” regulations and his thwarting of Democrats.“Really, I have gotten done much more than I promised,” Mr. Trump said. “We did a lot of things I didn’t even promise.”In the driving rain, Mr. Trump made his way to the training center, where he had been scheduled to sell an ambitious plan that would try to leverage $200 billion in federal spending to generate $1.5 trillion in total spending on projects such as tunnels, bridges and highways. White House officials had framed the event as a ramp-up, but this conflicted with the president’s decision to say he would push the plan to next year, declaring that he did not expect it to pass at least until after the November midterm elections.Also curiously, Mr. Trump spent little time on the trade deal struck with South Korea this week, which had been a win for his administration. That continued a relatively muted celebration: The announcement of that agreement’s details came not from Mr. Trump or his White House, but from South Korean officials; Trump administration officials unveiled the plan days later in a conference call with reporters.Instead, Mr. Trump disparaged a previous version of a South Korea trade agreement as a “horror show” and a “Hillary Clinton special.” He mused to the crowd that he might hold up finalizing the deal while he pursues planned talks with North Korea.“Certainly, the rhetoric has calmed down just a little bit, would you say?” Mr. Trump asked the crowd. “We’ll see how it all turns out.”Mr. Trump seemed to veer off script in other areas as well. At one point, he suggested that he planned to pull American troops out of Syria, where they have aided a military campaign that has recaptured the vast majority of the territory once controlled by the Islamic State, or ISIS. “We’re knocking the hell out of ISIS,” he said. “We’ll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As the crowd applauded, he added: “Very soon, very soon we’re coming out. We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate, as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly, quickly.”AdvertisementThe comment seemed in conflict with plans by his national security team to keep a small force in place. As recently as Tuesday, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground” and had “drawn off slightly” to avoid accidental conflict with Russian troops, they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria,” he said.Some foreign policy specialists said a complete withdrawal of American troops from Syria would leave a dangerous void. “If we’re pulling those troops out, we’re ceding the remnants of Syria to the Russians and the Iranians and the other actors, which actually I would argue would be a big victory for Russia,” said Jamie M. Fly, a Republican scholar at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.Mr. Trump eventually focused on infrastructure on Thursday, zeroing in on his plan to speed up permitting. But the subject and timing of the president’s focus on his plan, announced in February, are curious. Congressional Republicans have not shown much appetite for taking up the infrastructure package, and neither have Democrats, who prefer proposals with much more federal spending.Mr. Trump acknowledged some of that reality in his remarks.“I don’t think you’re going to get Democrat support very much,” he said. “You’re probably going to have to wait until after the election.”Administration officials have not mounted any sort of effort, in public or private, that matches the scale of the pressure campaign they employed before the passage of Mr. Trump’s signature tax cut package last year. Perhaps the most prominent advocate of the infrastructure proposal, Gary D. Cohn, recently left his post as director of the National Economic Council. His successor, Larry Kudlow, is less enthusiastic about increases in federal infrastructure spending.The administration envisions states, local governments and the private sector contributing the bulk of the funds, a recipe that experts doubt would result in anywhere close to the targeted level of investment.Richard Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which has lobbied for a large infrastructure bill, said he was skeptical that the president’s visit would spur any action.“He and Congress didn’t blink whenever they shelled out a trillion and a half dollars in tax giveaways for the rich,” Mr. Trumka said, “but we haven’t seen a nickel yet for infrastructure. He can talk about it forever, but he’s got to do something.”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, echoed that sentiment on Thursday. “Democrats are eager to work with the administration on infrastructure,” he said, “but there’s been a lack of seriousness on this issue from the White House.”Katie Rogers reported from Richfield, and Jim Tankersley from Washington. Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Praise for Trade Deal, Then Trump Suggests That He Might Delay It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ADAM NAGOURNEYAPRIL 3, 2018
SAN DIEGO — At a moment of extraordinary tension between California and President Trump, this state is moving to elect a governor in a changing of the guard that will test its outsize power as a national leader for Democrats in its fight against the White House.Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat retiring after nearly half a century in public life, has been at the forefront of the fight, particularly on climate change. No one in the crowded field of candidates seeking to replace him enjoys Mr. Brown’s level of national prominence; it remains to be seen if any has the political skills Mr. Brown has honed over his long career to take on this kind of complicated battle.The contest is taking place against a backdrop of escalating hostilities, signaling what will most likely be years of legal and political fights between the Trump White House and California. On Monday alone, the administration moved to roll back California’s landmark auto emissions reduction program and challenged a state law intended to curb the sale of federal lands.As has become increasingly clear in recent days, Mr. Brown’s successor will face a thicket of high-stakes challenges. The federal government is suing to overturn so-called sanctuary laws in California intended to hamper federal immigration officials. It has moved to permit offshore drilling in states including California.AdvertisementThe tax overhaul law passed by Congress at Mr. Trump’s urging is viewed here as a major assault on middle-class homeowners, because of its steep limits on the deductibility of mortgage payments and state and local taxes. Mr. Trump made his first trip as president to California last month to visit prototypes of a wall being built on the border with Mexico — and used the visit to attack the state as “out of control.” Over the weekend, he assailed Mr. Brown on Twitter for pardoning five immigrants who would otherwise have faced deportation.AdvertisementFor his part, Mr. Brown said Washington was “basically going to war against the state of California.”Polls suggest that the two leading contenders to succeed Mr. Brown are Gavin Newsom, the lieutenant governor and a former mayor of San Francisco, and Antonio R. Villaraigosa, the former two-term mayor of Los Angeles and Assembly speaker, both Democrats. The two are known as effective public speakers with extensive political experience that could prove important in navigating the fight against Washington.Of the two, Mr. Newsom has assumed the more aggressive stance in taking on the Trump administration, drawing strong support from liberal Democrats in the process. He has also called for the impeachment of Mr. Trump. A centerpiece of his campaign is a pledge to adopt a government-run, single-payer health care system, a direct challenge to the free-market vision embraced by Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans.“This is more than a political campaign,” Mr. Newsom told cheering delegates at the state Democratic convention here this year. “It’s about Democrats acting like Democrats in a battle for America’s soul against a president without one.”“Some of the defeatist Democrats are saying we just want to defend against the status quo,” he told another audience that day. “How can you just defend against the status quo? We need to do more than just push back against their agenda to wreak more havoc.”Mr. Villaraigosa has struck a more restrained note, saying it was too early to talk about impeachment and dismissing Mr. Newsom’s promise to have California go it alone with its own health care system as a “pie in the sky” promise he was making to ride anti-Trump sentiment. In tone, Mr. Villaraigosa is closer to Mr. Brown in positioning himself against the president.“Gavin likes to talk about the resistance — I don’t use that word,” Mr. Villaraigosa said over green tea during a break from campaigning in downtown Los Angeles. “I tell people the best way to resist is not to text and tweet, scream and yell at Donald Trump. The best way to resist is for us to chart a different path here in this state.”“We are going to push back,” he said. “But most of our attention, most of our efforts need to be focused on improving the human condition here.”AdvertisementRobert Shrum, the director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California, said the divisions on health care and impeachment reflected discussions Democrats were having nationally as they debated the best way to defeat Mr. Trump. Mr. Villaraigosa’s stance reflects the calculation that while California is overwhelmingly Democratic in its voting habits, many voters are independent by registration, and thus might be less receptive to an overly confrontational position against Mr. Trump.“Newsom is endorsing all of those things on the Democratic wish list,” Mr. Shrum said. “Villaraigosa is saying, ‘I like those things, but we actually can’t do them.’“One position speaks to the anger in the base,” he said. “The other speaks to what I think Democratic leadership in Congress prefers.”Under California’s election system, 27 candidates will appear on a primary ballot on June 5, regardless of party. A runoff in November will be held between the top two finishers.While polls suggest the November contest will be between Mr. Villaraigosa and Mr. Newsom, the dynamics of a multicandidate field can make it difficult to predict who might finish in the top. John Chiang, a Democrat and the state treasurer, and John H. Cox, a Republican businessman, also appear to be in position to capture a spot on the November ballot, according to some polls.And Delaine Eastin, a Democrat and the former state superintendent of public education, has drawn vocal support from the left with her own call for single-payer health care and the impeachment of Mr. Trump.If the November election ends up being between Mr. Villaraigosa and Mr. Newsom, it will be a classic north-versus-south contest. Candidates from Northern California tend to win those, because of heavier turnout in the Bay Area; Mr. Newsom enjoys a big advantage in fund-raising and leads in most statewide polls.AdvertisementBut Mr. Villaraigosa would be the first Latino governor elected in modern times. He is running when the ever-growing Latino community accounts for nearly 40 percent of the population and when California is battling with the administration over restrictive immigration policies.Mr. Newsom, 50, has made a single-payer government-run health care system for California a central plank of his campaign as he has sought to ride the anti-Trump sentiment that is surging in Democratic circles here, including within the powerful nurses’ union. “It is a litmus test for our endorsement,” said Bonnie Castillo, the executive director of the California Nurses Association. “Gavin passes it with flying colors.”Mr. Trump’s efforts to undermine the Affordable Care Act, and his pledge to continue doing so, mean that health care will most likely be another challenge for the next governor, whether or not California carries out single-payer.“If our health care system is thrown into absolute chaos because of what happens in Washington, the voters in California are going to expect the Democrats who control California to deal with it,” said Garry South, a longtime Democratic consultant who advises the nurses’ union.If Mr. Newsom won and made good on that campaign promise, he would open a up a whole new area of contention with Mr. Trump. Single-payer health care is likely to require waivers from the Trump administration in order to apply Medicare payments to financing a potentially $400 billion program, along with substantial tax increases.Mr. Villaraigosa, 65, said he supported the concept of single-payer health care, but dismissed Mr. Newsom’s promise as unrealistic.“He’s arguing with bold leadership we’re going to do it — even though he knows you need Trump’s waivers to do it,” Mr. Villaraigosa said. “They are not going to give us the waivers for that. Think about this: You ready to double your taxes? Nobody is going to do that. Everyone is for it until they realize — whoa. The cost. ”Mr. Chiang said he, too, supported a state health care system. “I just think Gavin Newsom should be forthcoming on how they are going to pay for it,” he said.AdvertisementMr. Newsom dismissed his critics as “defeatist Democrats.”“It’s a jaw-dropping thing: to say you support something but it can’t be done,” Mr. Newsom said in an interview a few blocks from his office in Sacramento. “Who the hell is interested in ‘it can’t be done’? We wouldn’t have marriage equality if I had listened to ‘it can’t be done.’”Asked what his plan was to pay for it, Mr. Newsom responded: “The one that works is the one I support. I’m not an ideologue.”Still, the biggest question may well be whether anyone will be able to replace Mr. Brown as California’s counterpoint to Mr. Trump — and whether the state’s stature as a national leader in this fight will diminish when Mr. Brown retires to his ranch next January.“California is usually the leading edge,” said Ms. Eastin, one of the Democrats seeking to replace him. “It’s the sixth-largest economy in the world. I think California will get attention.”The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Who Will Lead California as Trump Leads a Battle Against It?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 7, 2018
WASHINGTON — The special counsel in the Russia investigation has learned of two conversations in recent months in which President Trump asked key witnesses about matters they discussed with investigators, according to three people familiar with the encounters.In one episode, the president told an aide that the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, should issue a statement denying a New York Times article in January. The article said Mr. McGahn told investigators that the president once asked him to fire the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. McGahn never released a statement and later had to remind the president that he had indeed asked Mr. McGahn to see that Mr. Mueller was dismissed, the people said.In the other episode, Mr. Trump asked his former chief of staff, Reince Priebus, how his interview had gone with the special counsel’s investigators and whether they had been “nice,” according to two people familiar with the discussion.The episodes demonstrate that even as the special counsel investigation appears to be intensifying, the president has ignored his lawyers’ advice to avoid doing anything publicly or privately that could create the appearance of interfering with it.AdvertisementThe White House did not respond to several requests for comment. Mr. Priebus and Mr. McGahn declined to comment through their lawyer, William A. Burck.Legal experts said Mr. Trump’s contact with the men most likely did not rise to the level of witness tampering. But witnesses and lawyers who learned about the conversations viewed them as potentially a problem and shared them with Mr. Mueller.AdvertisementIn investigating Russian election interference, Mr. Mueller is also examining whether the president tried to obstruct the inquiry. The former F.B.I. director James B. Comey said that Mr. Trump asked him for his loyalty and to end the investigation into his first national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. After firing Mr. Comey, the president said privately that the dismissal had relieved “great pressure” on him. And Mr. Trump also told White House officials after Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from the investigation that he needed someone running the Justice Department who would protect him.The experts said the meetings with Mr. McGahn and Mr. Priebus would probably sharpen Mr. Mueller’s focus on the president’s interactions with other witnesses. The special counsel has questioned witnesses recently about their interactions with the president since the investigation began. The experts also said the episodes could serve as evidence for Mr. Mueller in an obstruction case.“It makes it look like you’re cooking a story, and prosecutors are always looking out for it,” said Julie R. O’Sullivan, a law professor at Georgetown University and expert on white-collar criminal investigations.She added, “It can get at the issue of consciousness of guilt in an obstruction case because if you didn’t do anything wrong, why are you doing that?”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Central figures in investigations are almost always advised by their own lawyers to keep from speaking with witnesses and prosecutors to prevent accusations of witness tampering. The president has not been questioned by Mr. Mueller; Mr. Trump’s lawyers are negotiating terms of a possible interview. Learning even basic details about what other witnesses told investigators could help the president shape his own answers.Mr. Trump’s interactions with Mr. McGahn unfolded in the days after the Jan. 25 Times article, which said that Mr. McGahn threatened to quit last June after the president asked him to fire the special counsel. After the article was published, the White House staff secretary, Rob Porter, told Mr. McGahn that the president wanted him to release a statement saying that the story was not true, the people said.AdvertisementMr. Porter, who resigned last month amid a domestic abuse scandal, told Mr. McGahn the president had suggested he might “get rid of” Mr. McGahn if he chose not to challenge the article, the people briefed on the conversation said.Mr. McGahn did not publicly deny the article, and the president later confronted him in the Oval Office in front of the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, according to the people.The president said he had never ordered Mr. McGahn to fire the special counsel. Mr. McGahn replied that the president was wrong and that he had in fact asked Mr. McGahn in June to call the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, to tell him that the special counsel had a series of conflicts that disqualified him for overseeing the investigation and that he had to be dismissed. The president told Mr. McGahn that he did not remember the discussion that way.Mr. Trump moved on, pointing out that Mr. McGahn had never told him that he was going to resign over the order to fire the special counsel. Mr. McGahn acknowledged that that was true but said that he had told senior White House officials at the time that he was going to quit.It is not clear how the confrontation was resolved. Mr. McGahn has stayed on as White House counsel, one of the few senior administration officials who has been with the president since the campaign.Mr. Priebus met with the president in the West Wing in December, according to the people with knowledge of their encounter. Allies of Mr. Priebus, who left the White House in July 2017, have cautioned him to keep his distance. But Mr. Priebus, who is seeking to build a law practice as a Washington power broker who can open doors for clients, has maintained contact and occasionally visited the White House to see Mr. Trump and his own replacement, Mr. Kelly.Mr. Trump brought up Mr. Priebus’s October interview with the special counsel’s office, the people said, and Mr. Priebus replied that the investigators were courteous and professional. He shared no specifics and did not say what he had told investigators, and the conversation moved on after a few minutes, those briefed on it said. Mr. Kelly was present for that conversation as well, and it was not clear whether he tried to stop the discussion.It is not illegal for the subject of an investigation to learn what witnesses have told investigators. But that is usually done through lawyers for the people involved because their communications are often shielded from prosecutors because of attorney-client privilege. In organized crime and complex white-collar investigations, prosecutors often ask witnesses whether they have spoken to the person under investigation to determine whether they are coordinating their stories.Mr. Priebus has had a long and complicated relationship with the president. He was one of the few who publicly defended Mr. Trump after the Times article about his attempt to fire Mr. Mueller, which cited the president’s view that Mr. Mueller had too many conflicts to be the special counsel.Advertisement“He expresses concerns with the conflicts, but I never heard the idea or the concept that this person needed to be fired,” Mr. Priebus said last month in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “I never felt it was relayed to me that way, either. And I would know the difference between a level 10 situation as reported in that story and what was reality. And it just — to me, it wasn’t reality.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2018, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Potential Complications in Asking Witnesses if They Had Been ‘Nice’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By MUJIB MASHAL and FAHIM ABEDMARCH 13, 2018
KABUL, Afghanistan — Even in his mother’s womb, Donald Trump was unusually sensitive. On nights when his mother was distressed, he would become restless, turning and kicking.Then, on a rainy autumn afternoon in a dusty village of about 200 adobe homes, it was time for his birth. There were no nurses or midwives, so a neighbor’s wife came to help. The newborn was calm. He had blonde hair, and perfectly normal feet and hands.This is not Donald J. Trump, the son of Mary and Fred Trump. This is Donald Trump, the third child of Jamila and Sayed Assadullah, who was born in Shahristan District deep in the central Afghan province of Daikundi on Sept. 3, 2016, around the time his American namesake was preparing for his first presidential debate after winning the Republican nomination.The baby Donald Trump got his name because of his father’s admiration for the tycoon Donald Trump.Mr. Assadullah comes from a poor farming family, in a place where a good almond crop often made the difference between starving or not. But he earned a college degree, and had read Mr. Trump’s books, and watched him on television, which the family powered through solar panels provided in the village by an aid organization.AdvertisementHe hoped that naming his son after a famous real estate developer and television star would, somehow, rub off on the child’s fortunes.AdvertisementBut the hoped-for good luck has yet to appear. If anything, the naming choice has only added to the family’s misfortune.The decision to give the child a non-Muslim name angered Mr. Assadullah’s relatives so much that the family no longer felt welcome in their village in Daikundi, and moved to a rental home in Kabul.“I was reading Trump’s books,” Mr. Assadullah said in an interview in Kabul, as the young Donald Trump sat in his lap, his little fingers clinging to his father’s phone. “I read his book ‘How to Get Rich.’ Then I read about his background: about how he built the Trump Tower, how he became the leader of the party. I understood that he is a hardworking man. I thought if I name my son Donald Trump, then it will affect my son’s personality, his behavior.”Mr. Assadullah said the immediate physical resemblance only helped in his conviction.“When my son was born, his hair was completely blonde, and it matched Trump’s hair,” he said. “So when I saw his hair, I thought, ‘I will name him Trump.’ ”For 10 days after the baby was born, he did not have any name. Traditionally, the grandparents get a first say on the name, and the newborn’s parents play along. Mr. Assadullah wanted to break with tradition, but his break was such a leap that he could not bring himself to tell the family. At least Jamila, his wife, agreed with him.When Mr. Assadullah’s decision became public, his family first ridiculed him. Then the ridicule turned into anger.“When I named my son Donald Trump, they were not happy,” Mr. Assadullah said. “They told me, ‘How you can select the name of an infidel for your son?’ ”Advertisement“So the relations with my family were not good after that,” he continued. “My father is an angry man. He told me that he could not tolerate the fact that I call my son Donald Trump. So I left and moved my family to Kabul.”The story of young Donald Trump, who is a year and a half old now, had largely remained private even after the family’s move to Kabul. But recently, a copy of the boy’s national ID started circulating on social media. Mr. Assadullah said it was put out by employees of the population registration department without his permission.At the government office in Kabul responsible for verifying IDs from other provinces, Mr. Assadullah said he was treated with disrespect. He was even threatened with being sent to the Afghan intelligence agency for questioning, all for naming his son Donald Trump.“When I went there, the employees of the department saw the name and they asked me, ‘What is this? Donald Trump?’ I said yes, is there any problem?” Mr. Assadullah said. “They looked at me funny, and they were saying, ‘look, he named his son Donald Trump — what culture-less people.’ I told them their job is only to confirm the ID card.”Critics say Mr. Assadullah named his son for the president to draw attention to himself and seek asylum abroad. But he rejected that idea, saying he never wanted his child’s identity to be so public.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Since news of young Donald Trump’s name spread, another family has come forward with a similar tale. Ghulam Ali Paiman, also from Shahristan in Daikundi, says he had twins nearly two years ago and named one child Vladimir Putin and the second Barack Hussein Obama. But there was a disagreement: His wife had wanted to name the second child Trump.His story, however, was hard to verify.Mr. Paiman sent The New York Times copies of what he said were hospital birth certificates, but they were issued this week, nearly two years after the birth of the twins. The hospital director confirmed issuing the recent birth certificates, but said he couldn’t find children with those names born two years ago.Traditionally, most families name their children on the sixth day — long after they have left the hospital, if they were delivered in a hospital at all.Independent verification of Mr. Paiman’s story could not be found.“It is the first time I am hearing these twins named Trump and Putin,” said Shafaq Yaqoobi, the district governor of Shahristan. “I know the father. I have never heard from him or anyone else that he named his twins Trump and Putin.”“But I have heard about Donald Trump,” he added, “whose father is Sayed Assadullah.”Follow Mujib Mashal and Fahim Abed: @MujMash and @fahimabed.A version of this article appears in print on March 14, 2018, on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Poor Afghan Family Names Son After Trump. It Hasn’t Paid Off.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Patrick ChappattePresident Trump went from ridiculing North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and threatening to destroy his country, to accepting Mr. Kim’s invitation for a face-to-face meeting within two months, the first between leaders of the two countries, the Editorial Board wrote.Patrick Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist for The New York Times. View more of his work, visit his website or follow him on Twitter.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.AdvertisementBy KENNETH P. VOGEL and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICKMARCH 25, 2018
WASHINGTON — For Elliott Broidy, Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign represented an unparalleled political and business opportunity.An investor and defense contractor, Mr. Broidy became a top fund-raiser for Mr. Trump’s campaign when most elite Republican donors were keeping their distance, and Mr. Trump in turn overlooked the lingering whiff of scandal from Mr. Broidy’s 2009 guilty plea in a pension fund bribery case.After Mr. Trump’s election, Mr. Broidy quickly capitalized, marketing his Trump connections to politicians and governments around the world, including some with unsavory records, according to interviews and documents obtained by The New York Times. Mr. Broidy suggested to clients and prospective customers of his Virginia-based defense contracting company, Circinus, that he could broker meetings with Mr. Trump, his administration and congressional allies.Mr. Broidy’s ability to leverage his political connections to boost his business illuminates how Mr. Trump’s unorthodox approach to governing has spawned a new breed of access peddling in the swamp he vowed to drain.AdvertisementMr. Broidy offered tickets to V.I.P. inauguration events, including a candlelight dinner attended by Mr. Trump, to a Congolese strongman accused of funding a lavish lifestyle with public resources. He helped arrange a meeting with Republican senators and offered a trip to Mar-a-Lago, the president’s private Florida resort, for an Angolan politician. And he arranged an invitation to a party at Mr. Trump’s Washington hotel for a Romanian parliamentarian facing corruption charges, who posted a photograph with the president on Facebook.AdvertisementThis type of access has value on the international stage, where the perception of support from an American president — or even a photo with one — can benefit foreign leaders back home.Mr. Broidy was open about his business interests, but the administration made no effort to curtail his offers of access to clients or prospective clients.Yet Mr. Broidy was so aggressive, some associates said, that they warned him to tone down his approach for fear that he might run afoul of the president, clients or American lobbying and anti-corruption laws.As with so many other political conventions, Mr. Trump has upended the traditional system of access to the president, among the most prized chits in Washington. That is partly because of lax vetting that has allowed largely unfettered access to Mr. Trump and his White House by loyalists, friends and hangers-on with their own policy agendas or business interests.But it is also because few of Washington’s established lobbyists have close connections to the president. In their place, a new class of insider has emerged, able to lobby the president directly on behalf of clients or business partners, an uncommon opportunity in prior administrations, when lobbyists focused on winning support from lawmakers or regulators.In a statement, Mr. Broidy said the success of his company reflected his recruitment of “the best people, including a number of former flag officers,” not his political connections. “The idea that our success derives from activities around last year’s presidential inauguration is not only misplaced but insulting to the careers and capabilities of our highly trained and decorated veterans,” he said.Mr. Broidy, 60, in some ways personifies this new breed of Trump insider. A lifelong Los Angeles resident who worked as an accountant before making a fortune as an investor, Mr. Broidy grew more interested in politics after the Sept. 11 attacks, which shaped his hawkish approach to foreign policy and concern for the defense of Israel. In 2005, he was appointed to a federal homeland security advisory panel.AdvertisementMr. Broidy pleaded guilty in 2009 to giving nearly $1 million in illegal gifts to New York state officials to help his company land a $250 million contract with the state’s public pension fund. He paid $18 million in restitution and avoided jail time.As he worked to rebuild his bank account and reputation, he expanded his business interests in the defense and security industry, starting a company called Threat Deterrence in 2013 and purchasing Circinus in July 2015.Mr. Broidy initially supported Senator Ted Cruz of Texas for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016, embracing Mr. Trump only after Mr. Cruz dropped out.His business took off after Mr. Trump’s election. Circinus has won lucrative work from around the world, including contracts worth more than $200 million to do defense work for the United Arab Emirates. And Mr. Broidy openly promoted Circinus’s work in meetings with Mr. Trump and other Republican officials, according to documents and interviews.But Mr. Broidy faces a sudden backlash.One of his business partners, George Nader,  is cooperating with the special counsel, whose investigators have asked about Mr. Nader’s contacts with top Trump administration officials as well as his possible role in funneling money from the U.A.E. to Mr. Trump’s political efforts, according to people familiar with the inquiry.Mr. Nader helped Circinus gain access to U.A.E.’s crown prince, while also using Mr. Broidy as a conduit  to shape Trump administration policy toward the Persian Gulf on behalf of the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, both American allies. Mr. Broidy, in turn, appears to have helped Mr. Nader get his photograph taken with Mr. Trump at a fund-raiser, over the unspecified objections of the Secret Service. Mr. Nader has been convicted on charges related to child pornography and sexual abuse of minors.Hundreds of pages of Mr. Broidy’s emails, proposals and contracts were provided to The Times by an anonymous group critical of Mr. Broidy’s advocacy of American foreign policies in the Middle East. Mr. Broidy’s representatives say they have proof that the documents were stolen by hackers working for Qatar in retaliation for his efforts to rally opposition in Washington to Qatar, a regional nemesis of the Saudis and the Emiratis. The Qataris dismiss this charge.The documents reveal that Mr. Broidy, a vice chairman of the finance committee for Mr. Trump’s inauguration, arranged invitations to parties celebrating the event for foreign leaders with whom Circinus worked to sign contracts that could have been worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Mr. Broidy in some cases presented the invitations in a manner that suggested they were linked to their countries’ willingness to do business with Circinus.AdvertisementFor instance, Mr. Broidy invited Denis Sassou-Nguesso, the longtime president of the Republic of Congo, to a handful of inauguration week events, including the candlelight dinner featuring Mr. Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and their wives. “Your name has been submitted and approved,” Mr. Broidy wrote to Mr. Sassou-Nguesso in a note on Broidy Capital Management letterhead. Mr. Broidy stressed that the invitation was from Mr. Broidy and “is not coming from the Joint Congressional Committee” on Inaugural Ceremonies, which oversees the swearing-in and a luncheon at the Capitol.The day after the letter was dated, Mr. Broidy asked his team at Circinus to prepare an invoice for $2 million to Mr. Sassou-Nguesso’s office for “military capabilities assessment and review/services,” according to emails and documents.People close to Mr. Broidy said no invoice was sent and Circinus never worked for the Congolese government. Mr. Sassou-Nguesso declined the invitation to the inauguration festivities, they said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Donors to previous inaugurations were also able to invite foreign heads of state to events as their guests, a spokesman for Mr. Broidy noted.Two officials from Romania, another prospective Circinus client, met Mr. Trump at a private party to which Mr. Broidy invited them during inauguration week at the Trump International Hotel near the White House. Liviu Dragnea, a parliamentary leader who runs the Social Democratic Party, called for closer ties between Romania and the United States, prompting Mr. Trump to declare, “We will make it happen! Romania is important for us!” according to Mr. Dragnea’s Facebook post, reported by McClatchy.At the time, Mr. Dragnea faced corruption charges, which he continues to fight. But for months after the inauguration, Circinus continued pitching his government partly on the access it could provide to Mr. Trump, according to a person who works with the Romanian government and was briefed on the solicitation.Circinus has yet to receive contracts from Romania, people close to Mr. Broidy said. The company entered into an agreement last month with a Romanian government-owned defense company that appears to give it the inside track for contracts valued at more than $200 million, according to Romanian news media and people familiar with the contracting process.Similarly, in a letter dated Jan. 3, 2017, and emailed to top Angolan government officials, Mr. Broidy indicated that he was also sending both an invitation to the inauguration festivities and a proposal for Circinus to provide security services for Angola. In one version of the proposal, the company sought nearly $64 million over five years. “With numerous preparations ahead, we request that you kindly return the executed document no later than January 9, 2017,” Mr. Broidy wrote in the letter to João Lourenço, then the Angolan defense minister, and another Angolan official.Three days before inauguration, the Angolans submitted a $6 million payment to Circinus, which people close to Mr. Broidy say was $2 million less than the Angolans had agreed to pay. That same day, the Angolans and Mr. Broidy met on Capitol Hill with senators including Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, both Republicans, encounters arranged by Mr. Broidy and his team.About one month later, Mr. Broidy again wrote to Mr. Lourenço, discussing plans for him “to be joining us at Mira Largo” — an apparent reference to Mar-a-Lago, where Mr. Broidy is a member and has been spotted introducing guests to the president — “this coming weekend.”Advertisement“Many preparations have been made in advance of your visit, including additional meetings at the Capitol and the Department of Treasury,” Mr. Broidy wrote.He went on to remind Mr. Lourenço that Angola was past due on “the balance of the payment” for Circinus’s services. “Please make this payment immediately,” he wrote.Not long after Mr. Lourenço was inaugurated as president of Angola in September, Mr. Broidy wrote again to congratulate him and offer to help set up meetings with Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence. “Before the formalities which would naturally be in order between our governments, I am able to assess and advise in this matter, and would be delighted to help foster such closer relation between Luanda and Washington,” Mr. Broidy wrote, referring to the Angolan capital.Mr. Lourenço did not come to Mar-a-Lago and never responded to the letters, according to people close to Mr. Broidy. Circinus never collected any additional funds from Angola beyond the initial $6 million payment, they said.Mr. Broidy emphasizes to potential clients how his connections to Mr. Trump could benefit them, according to several people who have worked with him or heard his pitches.“He was mentioning that he has political connections, and it could be helpful,” said Eymen Errais, a counselor to the Tunisian Ministry of Development, Investment and International Cooperation.Mr. Errais and the department’s minister, Fadhel Abdelkefi, met with Mr. Broidy and Circinus executives in Tunisia a few weeks after Mr. Trump’s election. Circinus sought a contract to build an open-source intelligence center for the Tunisian government, a person familiar with the meeting said, but Mr. Abdelkefi’s ministry instead sought to persuade Mr. Broidy to invest in the Tunisian hospitality industry.AdvertisementNonetheless, in an email to Mr. Abdelkefi just after the meeting, Mr. Broidy vowed that the center “would be an extremely useful and effective tool for your government” and again emphasized his connection to Mr. Trump. He characterized the incoming administration as “an unprecedented opportunity, in that the House, Senate and executive branch of our government are all under Republican control for the first time in 10 years.”Circinus prepared a proposal for a five-year contract totaling $80 million for the Tunisian work. But Mr. Errais said the Tunisians decided not to do business with Circinus. “A connection with Trump — how would that help us for security?” he said.A person close to Mr. Broidy said he discussed the Republicans’ control of Congress and the White House to suggest that the American government might increase spending on counterterrorism.Mr. Broidy’s allies say he has never hidden the overlap between his business interests and his political activity. In a memorandum about an October Oval Office meeting, for example, Mr. Broidy wrote that he had volunteered to Mr. Trump that his company was seeking a contract from the United Arab Emirates and had tried to arrange a private meeting for the president to discuss the matter with their leader, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed.But as scrutiny has mounted around Mr. Broidy, Republican officials signaled that he would be a distraction at a high-dollar fund-raiser with Mr. Trump this month in Los Angeles. Mr. Broidy helped plan it and was listed as a co-host.After conversations with Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, he volunteered not to attend, according to people briefed on the situation.The dinner and round-table with the president proceeded without him.Kenneth P. Vogel reported from Washington, and David D. Kirkpatrick from London.A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Marketing Ties to Trump, Top Donor Made Millions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 6:17 A.M. E.D.T.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES ADVISER SECRETLY BACKED ABU DHABI'S AGENDA IN CONGRESSGeorge Nader wired $2.5 million to a Trump fundraiser, money then used to bankroll an effort to persuade U.S. lawmakers to take a hard line against UAE-rival Qatar, an AP investigation finds.2. IMPACT OF TRUMP'S REFUGEE POLICIES DIFFER DRASTICALLYIn U.S. cities with large refugee populations, the reality can be decidedly different for neighbors, the result of Trump administration policies that sort people by nationality and, by extension, religion.3. WHAT STORMY DANIELS SAYS ABOUT SEXUAL ENCOUNTERThe adult film star tells CBS' "60 Minutes" she was threatened to keep silent about an alleged tryst with Trump in 2006.4. SUPREME COURT TAKES UP 2ND MAJOR PARTISAN REDISTRICTING CASEJustices are weighing a political line-drawing case in Maryland, which may offer fresh clues to what they think about partisan gerrymandering.Advertisement5. NOT MUCH SUSPENSE IN EGYPTIAN ELECTIONCritics view the absence of a serious challenger to President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi as a signal of the country's return to the authoritarian rule that prevailed since the 1950s.Advertisement6. RUSSIAN SHOPPING MALL FIRE KILLS 64With fire alarms silent and staff reportedly nowhere to be seen, a fire at a mall packed with children and their parents kills dozens in Siberia.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.7. UPCOMING EU DATA RULES MAY HAVE GLOBAL IMPACTA similar data breach by Facebook in the future could make the social network liable for fines of more than $1.6 billion.8. WHOSE REMAINS ARE RETURNING HOMESeventy-four years after Frank Fazekas Sr.'s fighter aircraft crashed into a French beet field, the remains of the American pilot have been discovered and will be buried at Arlington.9. EXPERTS BULLISH ON ECONOMYEconomists are expressing optimism that tax cuts and increased government spending will accelerate economic growth over the next two years.10. CHALK AND 1 UPSTARTThe Final Four features favorites in Villanova, Kansas and Michigan along with surprising 11-seed Loyola-Chicago.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 24, 2018, 3:56 A.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  North Korea has agreed to hold high-level talks with South Korea on March 29 at the border truce village of Panmunjom to prepare for a summit of their leaders planned for April, the South said on Saturday.A team of three officials will be led by Ri Son Gwon, the chairman of North Korea's committee for the peaceful reunification of the country, the North told its neighbor early on Saturday, the South's Unification Ministry said."This morning, North Korea sent a message through a communication channel in Panmunjom agreeing to our suggestion made on the 22nd to hold high-level inter-Korea talks," the ministry said in a statement.The stakes are higher for a potential summit between U.S. President Donald Trump and his North Korean counterpart that may take place by the end of May, however.AdvertisementTrump this week named John Bolton, a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations famed for his hawkish views on Pyongyang, to replace White House National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on March 13, saying the two had disagreed over Iran and other foreign policy matters.AdvertisementThe Korean talks set for March 29 will precede musical performances in Pyongyang in early April by a group of South Korean singers making a reciprocal visit after the North sent performers to the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.Artists of both nations will collaborate for a show on April 3, the South's Yonhap news agency said, citing an aide of  President Moon Jae-in.Moon plans to hold a summit with North Korea’s Kim Jong-Un by the end of April.(Reporting by Cynthia Kim; Editing by Richard Pullin and Clarence Fernandez)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:39 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Justice Department's internal watchdog said Wednesday it will examine Republican complaints of FBI misconduct in the early stages of the Russia investigation.Inspector General Michael E. Horowitz's investigation comes at the request of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and congressional Republicans. They have been urging his office to review whether FBI and Justice Department officials abused their surveillance powers in using information compiled by a former British spy and paid for by Democrats as part of the basis to justify monitoring a former campaign adviser to Donald Trump.Horowitz said his office will look at those claims, as well as communications among the spy, Christopher Steele, and Justice Department and FBI officials.Republicans have been fuming about they see as bias within the FBI, while Democrats say the surveillance abuse allegations are designed to undermine special counsel Robert Mueller's sprawling investigation into the Trump campaign's ties to Russian meddling in the 2016 election.AdvertisementHorowitz's review comes weeks after Republicans on the House intelligence committee released a declassified memo that detailed the use of political opposition research to obtain a warrant to monitor Carter Page, the former adviser to Trump's campaign. The GOP memo describes the department's use of information compiled by Steele in obtaining a secret warrant to monitor Page's communications. Steele's anti-Trump research was paid for by Democrat Hillary Clinton's campaign and the Democratic National Committee.AdvertisementAs the Republicans suggested the FBI may have conspired against Trump, Democrats countered with their own memo that said the FBI only "made narrow use" of that research.Sessions referred the Republican complaints to the inspector general's office, a move that enraged Trump, who denounced it as "disgraceful" and said Sessions should have ordered his own investigation. Sessions insisted he had taken the appropriate step.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The new investigation comes as the FBI is already under intense political pressure. Horowitz's office has been examining for more than year the FBI's handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation, an inquiry focused not only on specific decisions made by FBI leadership but also on news media leaks. That investigation formed the basis for the firing of former Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. That inspector general's report has not been released but is expected out soon.Some Republicans praised Horowitz's latest move, including Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, who has criticized the process for obtaining secret surveillance warrants and had sought an inspector general review."Federal surveillance authority is an important tool to combat terrorism and keep Americans safe, but it must be used by the book in order to protect the constitutional rights and civil liberties of all Americans," he said Wednesday.Democrats have said the investigations are a waste of money and time."It is a shame that the inspector general has to devote resources to investigate a conspiracy theory as fact-free, openly political, and thoroughly debunked as the president's so-called 'FISA abuse,'" said New York Rep. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee. He said the review would show the FBI acted appropriately.Under pressure from lawmakers to move more quickly, FBI Director Christopher Wray said Tuesday that he has now assigned 54 FBI staff to collecting documents for separate congressional investigations into the Justice Department initiated by the House Judiciary panel's Republicans. The staff, he said, are working from 8 a.m. to midnight.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 2:29 A.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  To Wall Street money managers who make bets for a living, U.S. President Donald Trump's aggressive stance against China on trade looks like a high-stakes poker hand - but they believe  they can play it for all it's worth.Fears that Trump could set off a trade conflict have roiled Wall Street since March 1, when the president announced plans to impose tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, risking retaliation from major trade partners like China, Europe and neighboring Canada.It's been a roller coaster ride, with markets slumping after Trump last Friday moved to impose up to $60 billion in tariffs on some Chinese imports and China declared plans to retaliate with duties of up to $3 billion of U.S. imports even as it urged the United States to "pull back from the brink."China's willingness to negotiate spurred a rebound on Monday, though jitters in the tech sector drove markets back down on Tuesday.AdvertisementInvestors remain concerned about a trade war between the world's two largest economies, but some big players are sanguine about their prospects to make money even as they try and dissect Trump's strategy on trade.AdvertisementThe former celebrity businessman on March 2 tweeted, "trade wars are good, and easy to win," shocking economists who cite evidence that trade wars in the past have been destructive to economies involved."Other administrations have gone to trading partners like China and asked for a fairer deal, only to get a cigar put out on their forehead," said Steve Chiavarone, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors. "I suspect Trump's bucking of norms is absolutely part of his negotiating tactics."Chiavarone and others said they remain confident the S&P 500 will rise significantly this year."So far you are talking about small amounts of tariffs in niche sectors," said Phil Blancato, head of Ladenburg Thalmann Asset Management in New York. "For anyone who is looking for an opportunity to enter the market here at better valuations, this is it."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.THE ART OF THE DEAL"He has shown himself to act aggressively, quickly and unilaterally, and that's brought China to the negotiating table," said Ben Phillips, chief investment officer of  EventShares exchange traded funds. "I truly think they are worried about him taking unilateral action and harming China's economy."Fears of a trade war, which could hurt U.S. multinationals and dull the benefits of deep corporate tax cuts enacted this year, have helped push the S&P 500 down nearly 4 percent since the end of February.The Trump administration has demanded that China immediately cut its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion, a position seen by some as an opening tactic in a long negotiation.China could respond to U.S. measures with a range of tariffs aimed at U.S. multinationals, or even farmers in rural regions who helped Trump win the 2016 presidential election.Trump's bellicose stance with U.S. trade partners reflects a negotiating style outlined in his 1987 book, "Trump: The Art of the Deal," said Oliver Pursche, chief market strategist at Bruderman Asset Management in New York."You propose something horrific, and then when you pull back what you want is not as painful as feared," Pursche said. "The problem is the other side isn't dumb. Eventually, they're going to figure that out."Advertisement(Reporting by Noel Randewich, additional reporting by April Joyner and Trevor Hunnicutt in New York; Editing by Alden Bentley)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:18 P.M. E.D.T.
___Facebook says it's making progress in election preparednessNEW YORK (AP) — Facebook says it is making progress with efforts to weed out fake accounts and fake news on its service. The moves are aimed at preventing election interference ahead of the U.S. midterm elections.___Tech gains help US stocks end a rocky quarter with a bangTechnology companies powered U.S. stocks to solid gains Thursday, snapping the market's two-day losing streak. Banks, consumer-focused companies and industrial stocks also helped lift the market. Even so, the broad gains, which came on the last day of trading ahead of the Easter holiday weekend, weren't enough to make up for the stock market's first quarterly loss since 2015.___The next Kirkland? Online retailers create their own brandsNEW YORK (AP) — Online retailers vying to match the success of house brands like Costco's Kirkland Signature are starting their own private labels. They're doing so for the same reason: Store brands make a bigger profit and help keep customers. But attracting shoppers takes a different strategy: Sites design packaging that pops on screens. Search results put the private-label version first. Shoppers get cost savings on basics, items they can't find nearby, or a change from products they see everywhere.___White House claims win in Korea trade deal, faces skepticismWASHINGTON (AP) — The White House on Wednesday hailed a revamped trade agreement with South Korea as a vindication of President Donald Trump's hard-nosed approach to international trade. Many trade analysts are skeptical that the changes Trump's team negotiated to the six-year-old U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (called KORUS) would make a dent in America's massive trade deficit or do much to increase U.S. car sales in the near-impenetrable South Korean auto market.Advertisement___1 year to Brexit: So much to do, so little timeLONDON (AP) — On Thursday it is 365 days until Britain officially leaves the European Union on March 29, 2019, ending a 46-year marriage that has entwined the economies, legal systems and peoples of Britain and 27 other European countries. British Prime Minister Theresa May is marking the day with a whistle-stop tour of the United Kingdom's four corners —England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland — to promise a Brexit that unites the country.Advertisement___Consumer spending up in Feb; jobless claims at 45-year lowWASHINGTON (AP) — Americans increased their spending just 0.2 percent in February, while their incomes were boosted by increased wages and business owners' income. The Commerce Department says the modest spending increase followed an equal gain in January and a rise of 0.4 percent in December. Incomes increased a healthy 0.4 percent. The report came as news emerged that the number of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits dropped by 12,000 last week to 215,000 — the lowest level in 45 years.___Trump warns he may freeze SKorea trade deal for NKorea talksRICHFIELD, Ohio (AP) — President Donald Trump is threatening to "hold up" the trade agreement his administration finalized with South Korea this week to gain more leverage for talks with North Korea. Speaking about roads, bridges and other infrastructure in Ohio, Trump is highlighting the newly completed renegotiation of the trade agreement. But he adds that "it's a very strong card and I want to make sure everyone is treated fairly."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___President Trump goes after a favorite target, AmazonNEW YORK (AP) — President Donald Trump is going after Amazon again on Twitter. Amazon stock dropped 4.4 percent Wednesday after Axios reported that Trump has wondered if there was a way to "go after" the company with antitrust or competition law. Trump tweeted Thursday that Amazon pays "little or no" state sales taxes, which is not true.___Lawyer for victim's family says matter with Uber 'resolved'PHOENIX (AP) — The family of an Arizona woman killed when struck by an autonomous Uber vehicle apparently has reached a settlement with the company. Cristina Perez Hesano, an attorney for relatives of Elaine Herzberg, responded Thursday to inquiries by The Associated Press by saying only that the matter "has been resolved" without disclosing details. Uber declined to comment.___Good driver, poor credit: What makes your car costs so highHaving poor credit can be expensive, especially for car owners. In this analysis, NerdWallet looks at the increased costs in both car loans and insurance premiums to determine how much extra someone with poor credit could pay.___The S&P 500 index rose 35.87 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,640.87. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 254.69 points, or 1.1 percent, to 24,103.11.Benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 74 cents to $70.27 per barrel in London.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and CHAD BRAYMARCH 14, 2018
Broadcom officially withdrew a $117 billion takeover bid for its rival chip maker Qualcomm on Wednesday, two days after President Trump issued an extraordinary order to block the acquisition effort on national security grounds.In a statement, Broadcom said that it would comply with Mr. Trump’s order, formally abandoning what would have been the biggest takeover in the history of the technology industry. Broadcom has nevertheless said it will continue with plans to move its legal headquarters from Singapore to the United States.“Broadcom’s board of directors and management team sincerely appreciate the significant support we received from the Qualcomm and Broadcom stockholders throughout this process,” Broadcom said.Mr. Trump issued his order after a government panel tasked with reviewing the national security implications for business deals disclosed serious concerns about the bid. The panel’s finding was in keeping with the misgivings within the White House about China’s gaining access to important technologies like the nascent wireless standard known as 5G.AdvertisementThe move by Mr. Trump was a rare intervention by a president, but under his administration, multiple deals have been quashed after a review by the panel, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, popularly known as Cfius. Those prospective deals have included the sale of Moneygram to a unit of the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, and an agreement involving Lattice Semiconductor and an investment firm with reported ties to the Chinese government.AdvertisementMr. Trump acted despite efforts by Broadcom and its chief executive, Hock Tan, to win over the White House, even before the hostile takeover bid was announced.Mr. Tan appeared alongside Mr. Trump in November, promising to move Broadcom’s headquarters to the United States. At one point, the company also offered to raise its offer for Qualcomm, and when Cfius first raised concerns about the deal, Broadcom sent a letter to lawmakers promising it would not slow research and development in 5G networking technology if the merger was approved.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Had it gone through, the deal would have had an outsize impact on consumers around the world. The two companies supply the majority of chips used in smartphones, and Qualcomm in particular has a heavy stake in 5G, which promises much faster wireless download speeds.The Broadcom deal was blocked also as the Trump administration has taken a much harder stance on trade, imposing stiff new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum.Broadcom unveiled its bid for Qualcomm, based in San Diego, in November, but has consistently been rebuffed. Qualcomm said that Broadcom was fundamentally underestimating the company’s value.In February, as the rancor between the companies grew, Qualcomm increased the amount it was offering to buy NXP Semiconductors, another large chip maker. Broadcom, which had urged Qualcomm not to do so, then responded by reducing its offer for Qualcomm.Broadcom had said its bid for Qualcomm should not have been subject to Cfius review because of its plans to move its headquarters to the United States. Nevertheless, Qualcomm asked regulators to review the takeover effort.Follow Michael J. de la Merced on Twitter: @m_delamerced.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By PETER BAKERMARCH 13, 2018
SAN DIEGO — President Trump explained on Tuesday that he fired Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson because they do not see eye to eye on certain major issues. Then he confirmed that he may hire Larry Kudlow as his economics adviser even though they do not see eye to eye on certain major issues.In the never-ending reality-show drama of the Trump administration, characters come and go and sometimes come back again based as much on personality, chemistry and the mood of the moment as on ideology or competence. Those who get on Mr. Trump’s bad side are shown the exit, and those who connect with him rise through the ranks.The particular alchemy of that equation has eluded any number of people who were once masters of their own universe, as was Mr. Tillerson, who dominated the oil industry as chief executive of Exxon Mobil. Mr. Trump has cast aside both establishment figures and nationalist outsiders. He has recruited confidants he genuinely respects as well as virtual strangers who impressed him on television. He has even swung hot and cold on his own family members occupying offices in the West Wing.Anyone looking for a pattern should focus squarely on the man behind the desk in the Oval Office. Mr. Trump’s presidency of one depends not on the team around him but on the instincts inside him. Where others see bedlam, he sees purpose. “I like conflict,” he said the other day, a statement that elicited no objections from fact checkers. Sometimes the conflict seems to be within himself.AdvertisementOther presidents seek to minimize disorder; Mr. Trump seems to maximize it. He fired Mr. Tillerson shortly before heading to Air Force One to fly to California to inspect prototypes of his border wall, announcing the move on Twitter, defending it on the South Lawn with the noise of helicopter blades almost drowning him out and then leaving behind chaos.The spectacle did not end with his secretary of state being cashiered just hours after landing from a diplomatic mission to Africa. Even as attention focused on Mr. Tillerson, the president’s once-trusted personal assistant, John McEntee, was forced out and escorted from the White House by security guards so hurriedly that he could not even grab his jacket — but in a typical Trumpian twist then turned around and joined the re-election campaign. Then an aide to Mr. Tillerson was fired for discussing the firing of his boss.AdvertisementThe turnover has been so head-snapping — 43 percent of Mr. Trump’s most senior aides had left by last week — that it will soon become easier to talk about who is still around than who has left. Gary D. Cohn, the economics adviser, announced last week that he would step down, following Hope Hicks, the communications director, and Rob Porter, the staff secretary.It is tempting to look for larger meaning in the shifting personnel, but the momentum seems to shift by the week or even the day. One faction has the upper hand and then it does not. Mr. Cohn was the “it boy” of the Trump White House early on until he mildly criticized the president’s response to the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va. Then he was on the outs. Then he helped pass Mr. Trump’s tax cut plan and his stock was high again. Then he lost last week’s battle over tariffs and he quit.Not to worry — even when Mr. Cohn, a former Goldman Sachs banker, announced his departure, Mr. Trump publicly predicted that he would simply go off to make a few hundred million dollars more and then rejoin the administration in one capacity or another.Mr. Tillerson had yet to turn in his State Department decoder ring before speculation turned to who else would be gone soon. What about John F. Kelly, the forever-on-the-bubble White House chief of staff? Or Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the perpetually on-the-way-out national security adviser?Maybe it depends on whom the president can convince to replace them. He said the other day that he could find 10 people for any job opening, but many first-tier Republicans are staying away from this White House or are banned from its premises because of past opposition to Mr. Trump.Still, he is not wedded to traditional choices as he scans the horizon for fresh staff members. It helps to be good on television, as Mr. Kudlow is, but not to be too good on television, because it might irritate the boss to be shown up.AdvertisementAmong those Mr. Trump enjoys on Fox News is John R. Bolton, the conservative firebrand who served as ambassador to the United Nations under President George W. Bush. Tongues wagged when Mr. Trump met with Mr. Bolton in the White House recently, prompting speculation that he could replace General McMaster.But would Mr. Trump bring in Mr. Bolton, among the nation’s leading hawks on North Korea, at the very moment he plans to sit down with Kim Jong-un, the country’s mercurial dictator, for talks aimed at eliminating its nuclear program peacefully? And then there is Mr. Bolton’s famous mustache. Some around Mr. Trump say it bothers him. Can he get over the facial hair?Mr. Trump’s choice of Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director, to replace Mr. Tillerson offers something of a window into his approach. Mr. Pompeo found that the key to favor in the Oval Office was engaging Mr. Trump. The president enjoyed his near daily interactions with Mr. Pompeo at his intelligence briefings.By contrast, he never really connected with Mr. Tillerson, who was used to being a chief executive rather than a glorified staff member. It probably did not help that Mr. Tillerson was overheard after a meeting last summer calling the president a “moron,” a comment he never denied, although he had a spokeswoman deny it for him. Mr. Trump has likewise been said not to click personally with General McMaster.Mr. Trump’s aides said he acted now because he wanted to get a new team in place before the talks with Mr. Kim. But Mr. Pompeo, a skeptic of talks with North Korea, will become secretary of state, while Mr. Tillerson, an advocate of talks with North Korea, will head for the exits.In speaking with reporters on the South Lawn before his trip on Tuesday, the president cited clashing views with Mr. Tillerson over the Iran nuclear agreement and other national security issues.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It was a different mind-set. It was a different thinking,” he explained. “We disagreed on things.”Just a minute or two later, a reporter asked if it was true that Mr. Kudlow was his top choice to replace Mr. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council. Such a selection would be striking given that Mr. Kudlow, a CNBC commentator, has criticized Mr. Trump’s decision to slap tariffs on imported steel and aluminum.But Mr. Trump shrugged that off and praised Mr. Kudlow. “We don’t agree on everything, but in this case I think that’s good,” he said. “I want to have a divergent opinion.”At least for now.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By JASMINE C. LEE

MARCH 26, 2018

Democrats hope to ride a wave of liberal enthusiasm and anti-Trump sentiment to a House majority in the midterm elections in November. All 435 House seats are up for grabs, but only about 48 seats are considered competitive (rated tossup or leaning toward one party), based on an average of estimates from three organizations.Ratings for Each House RaceDemocrats, who have been sidelined as the House minority party since 2010, need to flip 24 Republican seats while keeping the 194 seats they currently hold.Two indicators that are considered good predictors of the midterm vote have given Democrats hope. First, the party is performing better than Republicans in generic ballot polls — surveys in which people are asked which party they would support in a congressional election. Second, President Trump’s approval rating is relatively low. But congressional races are inherently local elections, and the individual candidates on the ballot will matter in November.The math favors the Democrats: 41 of these competitive seats are held by Republicans, while only 7 are held by Democrats. Most of these races are in districts where Hillary Clinton and Mr. Trump barely outperformed the other in the 2016 presidential race, and many of the incumbents won with smaller margins as well.Even some Republican seats in Trump country are in jeopardy. On March 13, Conor Lamb, a Democrat and former Marine, won a razor-thin upset in a special House election in southwestern Pennsylvania, in a district that Mr. Trump won by nearly 20 percentage points in 2016.Competitive districtsDemocrat-heldRepublican-heldThese competitive districts are found from Maine to California, in red and blue states, in cities and in rural areas.Democrats will surely look first to flip the 25 districts where Mrs. Clinton outperformed Mr. Trump. Six are leaning toward Democrats, including Martha McSally’s open seat in Arizona’s Second District. Two, however, are likely to remain Republican, including New York’s 24th District, where John Katko won 60 percent of the vote in 2016 and is unlikely to face a strong Democratic challenger.Fund-raising plays a major part in elections, and several Republican incumbents are being outraised by Democratic challengers. Several of these districts are still considered safely Republican, but some, like New York’s 19th — where Antonio Delgado had raised $287,000 more in 2017 than the incumbent, John Faso — are viewed as competitive because of the Democrat’s fund-raising advantage.Republicans can still go on the offensive and will look first to flip seats in districts that voted most strongly for Mr. Trump. Two of the 12 Democratic districts, both of which Mr. Trump won easily, are rated as tossups.But half of the seats in these districts are solidly or likely Democratic, and Trump voters might not turn out for Republicans without the president on the ballot.All Open House SeatsMore than 30 Republicans have announced that they will not be running for re-election in their district, a far greater number than in previous years. But most of those races are still rated solidly or likely Republican, so they are unlikely to flip to a Democrat.However, six of the Republican seats are currently leaning toward the Democrats, including Darrell Issa’s southern California seat, which he narrowly won in 2016, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen’s Miami-area seat where Mrs. Clinton carried the vote by more than 19 percentage points.Competitive Open SeatsDemocrats will also have to defend 16 open seats. Representatives in the five most competitive races won by fewer than five percentage points in 2016; three of them earned less than 50 percent of the total vote.Last month, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court released new district boundaries after ruling the state’s gerrymandered map unconstitutional. Over all, the new map is great news for Democrats because it pushed multiple districts to the left, inching the party closer to the 24 seats needed to retake the House.There have been swings of 24 seats or more in half of the midterm elections since 1994. The last time Democrats took the House with that kind of swing was the 2006 midterm election, when they picked up 32 seats. In 2010, as the Tea Party movement against President Obama’s policies shifted the political landscape, Republicans took control of the House by flipping 64 seats. They have held the chamber ever since.In the Senate, Democrats need to win 28 seats for control. Republicans need only eight.*Each of Pennsylvania’s districts, which were redrawn last month, is represented by the new district for that area and the new district’s race rating.Sources: Race ratings are an average of ratings by Cook Political Report, Inside Elections With Nathan L. Gonzales and the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics. Presidential election results are from Daily Kos Elections, and precinct-level results for new Pennsylvania districts were compiled by Nathaniel Kelso and Michal Migurski. House election results are from Dave Leip’s Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections and the states. District locations are from the United States Census Bureau. Past House balances are from the United States House of Representatives.Rachel Shorey contributed reporting.In an earlier version of this graphic, one district was incorrectly included in the group of Republican-held districts where a Democratic candidate raised the most money in 2017: Florida’s Eighth District, whose Representative Bill Posey, a Republican, outraised the Democratic candidate. In another case, one district was incorrectly excluded: North Carolina’s 13th District, where Kathy Manning, the Democratic candidate, outraised Representative Ted Budd, the Republican incumbent.AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 6:41 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Anticipating an unpredictable president's next moves, U.S. officials have started actively planning for the likelihood that Donald Trump will announce next month that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal.But no one knows exactly what would happen next or how Iran would respond.Still, with less than five weeks until President Donald Trump's deadline, national security officials are exploring various "day after" scenarios. Those include how to sell a pullout as the correct strategy, how aggressively to reimpose U.S. sanctions on Iran that had been lifted under the agreement and how to deal with Iranian and European fallout from such a step, according to officials, diplomats and outside advisers to the administration.The planning is at an early stage but has taken on greater urgency as the clock ticks toward mid-May, when Trump has said he'll walk away unless his concerns are addressed. Another catalyst is the anticipated arrival of two new Trump aides strongly opposed to the deal: Mike Pompeo and John Bolton.Pompeo, the CIA director nominated for secretary of state, was briefed last week on the Iran deal by top State Department aides, including Brian Hook, the policy planning chief, and Andrew Peek, the deputy assistant secretary for Iran, U.S. officials said.AdvertisementBoth Pompeo and Bolton, who takes over next week as Trump's national security adviser, have been highly critical of the landmark 2015 nuclear deal, and their appointments seemed to signal that one of former President Barack Obama's signature foreign policy achievements may soon be history.AdvertisementAnother complicating factor is Trump's stated desire to withdraw U.S. personnel and resources from Syria, which many Iran hawks believe will cede the country to Tehran. Leaving Syria to keep his campaign promise of disentangling the U.S. military from the Middle East may force Trump's hand on the nuclear deal, according to hawks who have expressed dismay at the president's desire to pull back."I want to get out. I want to bring our troops back," Trump said Tuesday. "Sometimes it's time to come back home."Iran has said U.S. withdrawal from the nuclear deal and reimposed sanctions would destroy the agreement and has threatened a range of responses, including immediately restarting nuclear activities currently barred under the deal.U.S. sanctions that were lifted in exchange for Iran curbing its nuclear program fall into several baskets, including some that can be restored by executive order and some that would require congressional action. Some sanctions target Iranian entities only while others punish third-country companies for doing business with Iran.One option being considered by the Treasury Department, which enforces sanctions, would be to immediately snap back sanctions that don't need action from Congress but delay their enforcement by four to six months, according to people familiar with the matter. That would give companies and governments time to prepare to comply with the changes. It would also keep the door open for last-minute changes that could potentially address Trump's concerns.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Another option would be to reimpose U.S. sanctions but carve out certain exemptions that could allow Europe and Iran to remain in the agreement without U.S. participation. Then it would be up to Tehran to decide whether the benefits of a deal that no longer includes the U.S. would be valuable enough to keep it alive.The planning effort has also been spurred by growing signs that U.S.-European negotiations to address what Trump says are flaws in the agreement are deadlocked and unlikely to produce an outcome acceptable to the president before May 12. Complicating those talks is uncertainty over what might actually persuade Trump to stay in the deal, which he has called the worst ever negotiated by the United States. Diplomats involved in those discussions are increasingly pessimistic that a viable compromise is possible."We've gone from a strategy of decertify, fix the deal and pressure Iran in the region to what increasingly appears to be one of decertify, nix the deal and withdraw from the region," said Iran deal critic Mark Dubowitz, the chief executive of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, who has pushed for tightening the accord.AdvertisementAs the Europeans work to salvage the deal, France, Britain and Germany have been trying to persuade their fellow EU members to agree to new non-nuclear sanctions on Iran, including some related to Tehran's actions in Syria, said one European diplomat.The goal is to tee up a "package" of actions to present to Trump as evidence that the Europeans are taking his concerns about Iran seriously and demonstrating willingness to act. Several nations have objected, arguing it's illogical to make concessions to Trump when it's unclear that will be enough to keep him in the deal.The nightmare scenario for the Europeans is that they would go out on a limb by adopting sanctions they don't really want in the first place only to see Trump walk away from the nuclear deal anyway, said the diplomat, who wasn't authorized to discuss the situation and spoke on condition of anonymity.On two of Trump's concerns — Iran's ballistic missile testing and destabilizing behavior in the region — the U.S. and Europe have largely reached consensus that Tehran can and should be punished. But the two sides remain far apart on Trump's third concern: the "sunset provisions" that gradually allow Iran to resume advanced nuclear work after several years.Trump is demanding that those restrictions be extended or made permanent, but Iran and the Europeans argue that's unworkable because it would be tantamount to renegotiating the deal, which they have vowed not to do. Both sides have offered possible compromises on the sunset provisions, but none have yet met muster, according to the diplomats.___This story has been corrected to show that Dubowitz's title is chief executive, not executive director, of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sylvie KauffmannPARIS — On Nov. 9, 2016, when we Europeans woke up to the news of Donald Trump’s election as president of the United States, most of us understood that it would have a significant impact on world politics. What we did not realize at the time was how much that event would alter the basic fabric of international relations.Over the past 16 months, we have been through roughly three stages in dealing with the fact that our first ally, the United States of America, is ruled by such an unorthodox president. We began by betting on human wisdom and political realism: Soon enough, Donald Trump, the nationalist, populist candidate, would wise up and become President Trump. Maverick politicians tend to do this in democratic societies.Then came the “adults in the room” stage. When it became clear that there was no wising up in the Oval Office, we were led to believe that fortunately, the celebrated checks and balances of the American system were functioning. The toxic Steve Bannon would soon be on his way out. Some experienced, reliable generals were taking over; their advice would prevail. How would official Washington have reacted if generals were appointed to key posts in a French or German government? Not warmly, one suspects. But these being no ordinary times, Europeans went along with the idea.For those who still bought it, the “adults in the room” theory took a serious beating last month at the Munich Security Conference, an annual gathering of top dogs in foreign and defense policy. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis came, but surprisingly did not take the floor. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser, did speak but was very publicly chided a few hours later by a presidential tweet because he “forgot” to say that Russian interference had no impact on Mr. Trump’s election.Senior European officials admit that however good their cooperation may be with counterparts in the Trump administration, the president’s unpredictability looms too large over decision-making. We have now entered the third stage of the great European disbelief. It could be called the “Angela Merkel was right” stage, in a nod to the German chancellor’s statement after the NATO and Group of 7 meetings last May that “we Europeans must really take our destiny into our own hands.”American officials keep trying to reassure their puzzled European interlocutors: “Don’t look at the tweets, look at what we do.” Repeated over and over, it is truly an extraordinary line. Think of representing your administration and telling foreigners every day: Ignore our president. But that’s a pipe dream. This president cannot be ignored because he is already profoundly transforming international relations, well beyond promoting unilateralism at the expense of multilateralism.Will there be a trade war? Maybe not. Yet last week’s assault from the White House, like a bolt from the blue, is a taste, for Washington’s European and Canadian allies, of how low the trans-Atlantic relationship can go under President Trump. Western partners of the United States cannot expect to be treated any better than China. When Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on ABC on Sunday, “There is a lot of history that needs to be undone,” he was addressing trade relations. To Europeans, this has a deeper meaning. It is post-World War II history that is being undone — the very history that the United States built, the foundation of the Western alliance.Mr. Trump earlier pulled the United States out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal as part of his “America First” doctrine. The TPP is now back, revived by its 11 remaining members — without America. A world where the United States led multilateral trade agreements is ending. But nations still engage in multilateral trade pacts, as the European Union has done with Japan and Mercosur, the South American trade bloc. The United States is just not part of them.President Trump has also pulled his country out of the Paris accord on climate change. Signatory countries are finding ways to go around this defection by working with more cooperative partners — American cities, states, corporations — just as they’ve done with trade.The president has allowed Vladimir V. Putin and Xi Jinping, the authoritarian leaders of Russia and China, to take center stage on the global scene. As Mr. Trump was being inaugurated in January 2017, President Xi was wasting no time stepping up, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, to pose as the champion of multilateralism and free trade. President Putin had already started his forays into Ukraine and Syria when Mr. Trump was elected; the Russian foray into the democratic processes of Western countries, including the United States, would be exposed soon after. By stubbornly refusing to criticize Mr. Putin, Mr. Trump shortchanges his administration, confuses his allies and weakens the American response.Mr. Trump is also threatening to overturn one of the biggest diplomatic achievements of recent years, the international agreement on Iran’s nuclear program, which Europeans are frantically trying to save.By unilaterally recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, the president has demonstrated his contempt for international law, reversed half a century of American commitments and, in doing so, badly damaged his country’s credibility in the region.President Trump has promoted the image of the strongman in world governance. Dictators used to be ashamed. No more. In the Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte can continue boasting about gunning down suspected drug dealers. In a phone call last year, circulated by the Philippine Foreign Ministry and reported by The New York Times, Mr. Trump congratulated Mr. Duterte for his “unbelievable job on the drug problem.”President Trump has shown how little consideration he has for diplomacy: More than a year after he took office, senior positions are still vacant at the State Department. There are no American ambassadors to Germany, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Turkey or the European Union — not to mention Mr. Trump’s indecently crude disparagement of African nations and Haiti. Diversity, once part of American soft power, has disappeared from images of administration officials. Photos of meetings at the Oval Office are crowded with white males, who also staffed the press briefings in Davos last January.This list is incomplete. But it’s sufficient to justify skepticism at the mantra “Don’t pay attention to the tweets.”Mr. Trump: In case you wondered, Europe is paying attention.Sylvie Kauffmann is the editorial director and a former editor in chief of Le Monde, and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 24, 2018, 5:17 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  U.S. President Donald Trump's choice of John Bolton as national security adviser provoked strong reactions worldwide on Friday - and few stronger than in the bitterly-divided Middle East.Some commentators saw it as another nail in the coffin of the Obama-era agreement between Iran and world powers to limit Tehran's nuclear ambitions, already cast into grave doubt by  Trump himself.Others expected Bolton to further undermine any remaining slender hopes of a "two-state solution" to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict emerging in the foreseeable future.He has in recent months applauded Trump's plan to move the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. Naftali Bennett, a member of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s security cabinet, called Bolton "an extraordinary security expert, experienced diplomat and a stalwart friend of Israel".AdvertisementLeft-leaning Israeli news website Haaretz was less enthusiastic, quoting 2016 comments by Bolton that the idea of two states, Israel and Palestine, existing side by side had "been dead for a long time".AdvertisementHe instead argued for the Palestinian territories to be placed under Egyptian and Jordanian sovereignty.Lebanese newspaper al-Akhbar, aligned with the Shi'ite militant group and political movement Hezbollah, reported Bolton's appointment with the headline "Zionist Hawk in the White House", drawing attention to Bolton's historical calls for action against Iran."Bolton's appointment, combined with (Mike) Pompeo's nomination (for secretary of state) last week, significantly lowers the odds that Trump will stick to the nuclear deal beyond May," said Ellie Geranmayeh, senior policy fellow at the European Council of Foreign Relations."Both men have vocally opposed the nuclear deal, advocated for regime change in Iran and Bolton has repeatedly called for bombing rather than diplomacy as a fix to the nuclear issue."Trump was surrounding himself with "like-minded advisers", Geranmayeh told Reuters, and "purging those who disagree".But she said Bolton's position on the Iran agreement would meet strong resistance from U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and the European powers who are also signatories.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."DANGEROUS RIDE"European officials expressed alarm at the personnel changes in Washington. "The writing is on the wall, unless we Europeans can present a forceful and united front to save the Iran deal," said one EU diplomat.Another commented: "Any moderating factor in White House foreign policy is being lost. We hoped the 'adults in the room' would win over Trump, but now the adults are leaving."AdvertisementSome observers of Iran and the region saw storm clouds gathering. "President Trump has now chosen a war cabinet," said Ali Alfoneh, senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.Bolton was a leading advocate of the 2003 invasion of Iraq and has called for a change of government in North Korea.Any new conflict between the United States and Iran would undermine moderates in Iran and strengthen radical forces, Alfoneh said."Bolton was a champion of ‘us-versus-them’ foreign policy," tweeted Mohamed ElBaradei, former head of the International Atomic Energy Agency and a Nobel Peace Prize winner."We should brace ourselves for a rough & dangerous ride."Turkey's response to the appointments of Pompeo and Bolton was cautious. "We hope these changes of duty will be a means to further strengthen the continuing efforts to solve the problems that have existed between our countries for a long time," a foreign ministry spokesman said.Among the international reactions, Moscow too struck a note of reserve."That is not a question for us, it is for the U.S. administration," a Kremlin spokesman said when asked about Bolton's nomination.(Reporting by Dominic Evans, Parisa Hafezi, Babak Dehghanpisheh, Bozorgmehr Sharafedin, Ari Rabinovitch, Lisa Barrington, Laila Bassam and Robin Emmott; Writing by Andrew Roche; Editing by Angus MacSwan)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By STEVEN ERLANGER and GERRY MULLANYMARCH 23, 2018
BRUSSELS — John Bolton’s appointment as national security adviser seems to many around the world to represent an uninhibited President Trump, and they are trying to puzzle out what exactly that means.A fiercely intelligent man with deeply conservative, nationalistic and aggressive views about American foreign policy, Mr. Bolton may bring more consistency and predictability to President Trump’s foreign policy, many suggest. But others worry that his hawkish views on Iran and North Korea, among others, may goad Mr. Trump into seeking military solutions to diplomatic problems.But some also wonder whether Mr. Bolton, who has played the outsider even when serving as a senior American diplomat in the State Department and at the United Nations, will be able to adjust to a high-pressure job where he must be less public, less strident and more of a mediator of differing policy views.And it is an open question whether he will be able to manage his relationship with Mr. Trump, who seems to tire quickly of anyone outside his own family who tries to guide or restrict his behavior, his public statements or his instincts.AdvertisementMr. Bolton’s views are well known and largely seem to align with Mr. Trump’s: the Iran nuclear deal is flawed and should be scrapped; North Korea must denuclearize or face military action; the United Nations and most other multilateral institutions are of little use to Washington. In this sense, said Josef Janning, a German policy analyst, Mr. Bolton “will provide significant support and intellectual ammunition to President Trump.”AdvertisementBut Mr. Bolton is also a strong supporter of the NATO alliance and a much harsher critic of Russia and President Vladimir V. Putin than is Mr. Trump, Mr. Janning noted. That point may help protect the president from suggestions that he is “soft on Russia.”“Bolton is relentless, intelligent and effective,” said François Heisbourg of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, who as a French military analyst dealt with Mr. Bolton during the administration of George W. Bush. “But he’s not a neoconservative and has no interest in democracy promotion. He is a man of the Trumpian world — no allies, no multilateralism.”Stephen Bush of the center-left British magazine New Statesman said that Mr. Bolton was “the man who makes neoconservatives say, ‘Steady on, old chap.” ’Nigel Sheinwald, a former British ambassador to Washington and to the European Union, also dealt with Mr. Bolton on Iran and arms control.“He tried to push Bush policy in a much more extreme direction,” Mr. Sheinwald said. “Given that the U.S. and the U.K. had so much at stake together, he was oddly deaf to the idea that America had allies and was very critical of the U.K. in almost everything we did,” especially over Iran.Mr. Bolton’s ascension promises strains with American allies both in Europe and in Asia — first over the nuclear deal with Iran and then over the nuclear capacity of North Korea.The crisis most expect to arise first concerns Iran, with both Mr. Bolton and the new secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, sharing Mr. Trump’s view that the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, negotiated by the United States the other permanent members of the Security Council and Germany, should be renegotiated or scrapped. With the departure of Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and of Mr. Bolton’s predecessor, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is a more lonely voice arguing that the deal, however flawed, is better than any alternative.AdvertisementMr. Bolton’s opposition to the negotiations with Iran is longstanding, dating from his days in the Bush administration, when he helped derail European talks with Tehran at a time it still had only a few centrifuges, Mr. Heisbourg said.“Bolton wanted us to fail,” Mr. Heisbourg said. “Had we gotten into serious negotiations 10 years before, the Iran deal would be very different, and we could have had the deal people like Bolton say they want now.”If Mr. Trump withdraws from the Iran deal in mid-May and imposes new American sanctions, as now seems very likely, the other signatories to the agreement, especially the Europeans, will have a difficult choice. They can try to protect the deal, in defiance of Washington. Or they can blame its failure on Mr. Trump, try to draw Iran into another round of talks and threaten further sanctions themselves if Iran resumes enrichment of uranium to military grade.While Mr. Bolton’s appointment was welcomed in Israel, with the education minister, Naftali Bennett, calling him “an extraordinary security expert, experienced diplomat and a stalwart friend of Israel,” the official Iranian response called him a “supporter of terrorists” now in “the highest political position in Trump’s totalitarian government.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The appointment of Mr. Bolton has set teeth on edge in Asia, where American allies are highly anxious about a developing nuclear crisis that appears all but inevitable. Mr. Bolton, Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Trump all say that North Korea could face pre-emptive warfare if it does not agree to dismantle its nuclear weapons.“People are trying to avoid appearing terrified,” said Tong Zhao, a nuclear policy expert at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing. “But people are deeply concerned.”He noted that Mr. Bolton’s appointment followed the imposition of tariffs, a Nuclear Posture Review and other steps that signal a worrisome deterioration in relations as Washington increasingly treats China as a strategic competitor.In that respect, Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing, said that the choice of Mr. Bolton, while a surprise, would not change an already antagonistic tone. “Almost everyone in the Trump administration now takes a harsh or hard-line posture toward China,” he said. “I think Bolton will not be an exception.”Lee Byong-chul, senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul, said that South Korea must now manage its “very bad chemistry” with Mr. Bolton, “who is all about sticks.”AdvertisementMr. Bolton has derided South Korea for trying to play peacemaker with Pyongyang, saying the South was “like putty in North Korea’s hands.”“We will have to see if Bolton opens his mouth and launches his verbal attacks against the North,” Mr. Lee said. “That will give North Korea an excuse to step away from its summit proposal. The Trump-Bolton team then will ramp up pressure. And we will hear more talk about a pre-emptive strike and see tensions rising again on the Korean Peninsula.”Others thought he might temper his words, but China would still worry about Mr. Bolton having Mr. Trump’s ear, said Chen Dingding, a professor of international relations at Jinan University in Guangzhou, China.“He’s a hard-liner, not just toward China but to the whole world,” Mr. Chen said. “North Korea, Iran, the European Union, the United Nations — every side — it’s not just China. But he does represent a worldview of the Trump administration, one of ‘America First’ and unilateralism over multilateralism. I think the whole world should be concerned, not just Asia.”For Xenia Wickett, a former official at the National Security Council who now directs the United States and Americas Program at the London research organization Chatham House, Mr. Bolton “knows his portfolios and is eminently qualified for the job.” But the concern, she said, is that he “is extremely far toward the hawkish end of the national security world.”A good national security adviser, who does not need confirmation by Congress, has a strong relationship with the president, with his own team and with Congress, she said. Mr. Bolton will have “a good relationship with Trump, a mixed relationship with his staff and a not very good relationship with Congress,” she said, suggesting that even Republicans there would have been unlikely to confirm him had that been required.The best national security advisers coordinate policy more than they run it, she said, wondering: “Can Bolton do the coordination thing?”Steven Erlanger reported from Brussels, and Gerry Mullany from Hong Kong. Reporting was contributed by Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea; Thomas Erdbrink from Tehran; Motoko Rich from Tokyo; Milan Schreuer from Brussels; and Steven Lee Myers and Christopher Buckley from Beijing.A version of this article appears in print on March 24, 2018, on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: American Allies React: ‘The Whole World Should Be Concerned’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHOE SANG-HUNMARCH 24, 2018
SEOUL, South Korea — High-ranking officials from North and South Korea will meet on the countries’ border next week to prepare for the inter-Korean summit meeting planned for late next month, the South said on Saturday.The officials will discuss the agenda for the meeting between President Moon Jae-in of South Korea and Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader, the South’s Unification Ministry said in a statement. That summit meeting, which both sides have agreed to hold in late April, is expected to be followed within weeks by a meeting between Mr. Kim and President Trump.Unification Minister Cho Myoung-gyon will lead the South’s delegation to the talks next week, which will be held Thursday on the North Korean side of Panmunjom, the so-called truce village that straddles the border. The North’s delegation will be led by Ri Son-kwon, one of the senior North Korean officials who visited the South during the Winter Olympics last month, part of the stage-setting for the current détente between the Koreas after a year of high tension over Pyongyang’s nuclear program.The North on Saturday accepted the South’s proposal to meet at Panmunjom, the Unification Ministry statement said.AdvertisementThe Koreas agreed earlier this month that their leaders would meet in late April, on the South Korean side of Panmunjom. Soon afterward, Mr. Trump surprised much of the world by accepting Mr. Kim’s invitation to sit down for talks.AdvertisementIf that meeting indeed takes place, Mr. Trump will be the first-ever sitting American president to meet a North Korean leader. The North and the United States are still technically at war, because the Korean War was halted in 1953 with a truce rather than a peace treaty.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kim’s invitation to Mr. Trump was conveyed by South Korean officials who had met with him, and the North’s state-run news media has not reported on the pending meeting, or on the one between Mr. Kim and Mr. Moon. Analysts said Pyongyang’s silence was not surprising and that the leadership might be reluctant to raise its people’s expectations for the meetings too soon.American officials have been reaching out to the North Koreans in hopes of hearing directly from them about Mr. Kim’s intentions, particularly since he was quoted by South Korean envoys as saying he was willing to discuss “denuclearizing” his country.Officials and analysts remain unsure whether Mr. Kim’s offer represents a fundamental shift toward dismantling his nuclear arsenal or a short-term ploy to confuse his enemies, ease sanctions and buy time to further advance his nuclear weapons and intercontinental ballistic missile programs.The development Saturday came two days after President Trump named his new national security adviser, John R. Bolton, a former United Nations ambassador who has been extremely skeptical of the South’s attempts to make peace with the North. The North Korean government once called Mr. Bolton “human scum” and vowed not to deal with him.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 4:17 A.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  The United States and South Korea agreed to revise a trade pact sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald Trump, Seoul said on Monday, with U.S. automakers winning improved market access and Korean steelmakers hit with quotas but avoiding hefty tariffs.The planned changes in the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) were seen as limited, leaving South Korea's key passenger car exports untouched and helping soothe fears that Trump's tough approach could start a spiraling global trade war.In April, Trump told Reuters he would either renegotiate or terminate what he called a "horrible" trade deal that has doubled the U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea since 2012.Asian shares steadied on Monday, stemming last week's hefty losses after Trump's action on steel and aluminum, and his plans to slap tariffs on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods. [MKTS/GLOB]AdvertisementThe agreement means South Korea will be forced to cut its steel exports to the U.S. by 30 percent of past three years' average, in exchange for becoming the first U.S. ally to receive an indefinite exemption on steel tariffs imposed by Trump.Advertisement"We had heated discussions," South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said at a media briefing in Seoul. "The latest agreement removed two uncertainties," he said, referring to steel tariff exemptions and KORUS renegotiation.Last week, Trump temporarily excluded six trade partners, including Canada, Mexico and the European Union from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum which came into effect on Friday.South Korea has received a quota of about 2.68 million tonnes of steel exports, or 70 percent of the annual average Korean steel exports to the United States between 2015-2017, which will be exempt from the new tariffs, the ministry said in a statement.South Korea is not allowed to export steel products exceeding that quota to the U.S. market, a ministry official said."This leaves a bad precedent of exchanging steel tariffs - which is a breach of international trade law - for a legitimate free trade agreement, in negotiations," said Wonmog Choi, professor of law at Ewha Womans University.TRADE WAR FEARSSouth Korea is the third-largest steel exporter to the United States and the world's top importer of Chinese steel, leading to concerns it was a conduit for China's excess capacity.Trump was elected in 2016 after promising to punish what he saw as unfair trade practices by other countries, particularly China.AdvertisementWhile Trump was adamant the KORUS deal needed renegotiating, the trade spat risked undermining relations between Seoul and Washington at a crucial time, as Washington and Seoul work closely to try to contain a nuclear-armed North Korea."We are at a time when U.S.-South Korea cooperation is needed more than ever ahead of the inter-Korean summit and the summit between North Korea and the United States," said a senior official at South Korea's presidential Blue House, who was not authorized to speak to media.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.South Korean officials said that while the deal agreed was the best they could hope for, further pressure on trade was likely under Trump's presidency."If President Trump becomes a two-term president ... I believe there will be continuous (trade) risks during that time," Trade Minister Kim said.Shares in South Korean steelmakers rallied on Monday, with Dongbu Steel leading gains as tariff exemptions were confirmed.South Korea's steel association said in a statement it was a "relief" that South Korea has been excluded from U.S. steel tariffs, but regrettable it was unable to secure higher quotas.AUTOS CONCESSIONAs part of the KORUS revision, the countries agreed to extend U.S. tariffs on Korean pickup trucks by 20 years until 2041.No South Korean automakers currently export pickup trucks to the United States, but Hyundai Motor said last year it planned to launch a model there to catch up with a shift away from sedans.Hyundai said on Monday it was "too early to elaborate on the details such as the estimated timing of the model release and production location". Its shares fell 1.3 percent.AdvertisementUnder KORUS revisions, U.S. automakers will be able to bring into South Korea 50,000 vehicles per automaker per year that meet U.S. safety standards, not necessarily Korean standards, up from 25,000 vehicles previously.Kim said no automakers previously exceeded the 25,000-vehicle threshold. Ford Motor Co and General Motors each shipped fewer than 10,000 vehicles last year."I don't see a high chance of automakers expanding U.S. imports," he said.Kim Jong-hoon, a former chief negotiator for the KORUS FTA, said South Korea had fared relatively well in negotiations."South Korea gave concessions in autos in return for steel tariff exemptions," he told Reuters. "This is not a free trade, but a managed trade."(Reporting by Joyce Lee and Hyunjoo Jin; Additional reporting by Christine Kim; Editing by Lincoln Feast)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 6:34 P.M. E.D.T.
SEATTLE —  Eight unknown Democrats are fighting for a spot to challenge a high-profile Republican in Washington state's reliably red 8th District.It's a familiar battle in the 8th, where voters have chosen the Republican for almost four decades since the U.S. House district's creation in 1980. But with the national GOP bracing for big midterm losses, the Democrats hope to finally prevail.The retiring incumbent, Rep. Dave Reichert, even said in an interview last year with The Seattle Times that he expects the seat will be "hard" to keep in Republican hands. The non-partisan Cook Political Report lists the contest as a toss-up. In a telling sign, a GOP House leadership-backed super PAC has opened an office in the area to help the Republican candidate.The district includes the eastern suburbs of Seattle and stretches into the rural Cascade Mountains. It is among about two dozen across the country that are held by Republicans but whose voters chose Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump, making it a critical potential pickup for the Democrats trying to gain control of the House for the first time since 2010.AdvertisementBut to do that, they'll have to defeat Dino Rossi, a former state senator who ran two close but unsuccessful efforts for governor and another for U.S. Senate. In each of those contests, he had a double-digit advantage in the 8th District.Advertisement"We're not giving much thought to the opinions of political horse race handicappers," said Andrew Bell, Rossi's campaign manager. "There's not much change from previous strategies. Dino has always been a fiscal conservative with a social conscience."By the end of 2017, Rossi had raised about as much money as his top five Democratic opponents combined, according to the Federal Election Commission.Still, Democrats have other factors playing in their favor, including Trump's low approval ratings and momentum from Conor Lamb's victory in the March special election for a Pennsylvania district that was held by Republicans for 15 years. Voters there had favored Trump by almost 20 percentage points in 2016. In Washington's 8th District, Trump lost by 3 percentage points."This is, without a doubt, the best chance Democrats have had to win this district, but they can't just rely on their voters, even if they are angry and motivated. They have to draw Republicans and independents," said Todd Schaefer, a political science professor at Central Washington University.Rossi's name recognition and centrist appeal put him in a much better position than Republicans running in other competitive districts, Schaefer said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.District 8 includes Seattle's eastern suburbs of Sammamish and Issaquah, which have seen their populations grow on the back of Microsoft, Google and other expanding technology companies. The district runs south to parts of Pierce County and east to include Chelan and Kittitas counties across the Cascades, rural economies that are heavily dependent on agricultural exports. The district stands to be among the most impacted in the Northwest if resident workers that benefit from Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals were removed, according to a 2017 study conducted by the University of Southern California and the Center for American Progress. The research shows economic output for the district would slump by more than $120 million annually.Trump ordered a repeal of DACA in September, putting at least 800,000 beneficiaries at risk of deportation.Rossi has stated his opposition to the Trump administration's imposition of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. On DACA, he told The Seattle Times in March that it wouldn't be "logical" to deport beneficiaries.AdvertisementKim Schrier, a pediatrician who's leading the Democratic field in fundraising, supports the 2017 Dream Act, a measure introduced in Congress to protect minors who entered the U.S. with their parents from deportation and provide a path to citizenship. The legislation shouldn't be tied to partisan issues, she said.Washington State Democratic Chairman Tina Podlodowski said Lamb's surprise win puts her party in a position to flip the 8th District "and a lot of other districts around the country."It's a sign of growing public discontent, not only with President Trump, but also Republican policies such as tax reforms and attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, she said. Democrats are mounting serious challenges in two other Republican-held districts in the state, including that of Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the only woman in House GOP leadership. McMorris Rodgers has enjoyed easy victories in her eastern Washington district since 2004.Washington is a so-called top-two primary state, meaning the top two vote getters in its August primaries will compete against each other in November - regardless of political affiliation. In fundraising terms, the Democratic field is led by Schrier, Jason Rittereiser, a labor-rights lawyer, and Shannon Hader, a doctor and former Centers for Disease Control and Prevention official. Podlodowski said she expects the fundraising advantage to remain with Rossi.Democrats need to pick up 23 districts to reach the 218-seat threshold required to control the House."We're dealing with a majority that's vulnerable," David Wasserman, a House analyst at Cook, said of Republicans. "Democrats have had a tough time breaking strongholds like Washington's 8th, but this is shaping up to be a really good year for them nationally."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWASHINGTON — It should have been Scott Pruitt’s finest moment. Mr. Pruitt, the chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, has sought to make his name as the Trump administration’s most effective eraser of regulations on American industry. On Tuesday, he formally announced his most sweeping regulatory rollback to date: a plan to weaken President Barack Obama’s stringent rules on planet-warming tailpipe emissions.Mr. Pruitt’s proposal is designed to unravel a signature piece of Mr. Obama’s environmental legacy, hand a victory to the American automakers and please his boss, President Trump. But instead of basking in glory, Mr. Pruitt is caught up in a swirl of allegations of impropriety — most recently centered on the fact that last year he rented a room in Washington from the wife of a prominent lobbyist.Mr. Pruitt unveiled his rollback in a hastily announced presentation at E.P.A. headquarters after canceling a plan to speak at a suburban Virginia auto dealership, a more public setting that might have exposed him to questions about the lease arrangement, or about his first-class air travel at taxpayer expense over the past year, for which he has also faced criticism. Mr. Pruitt declined to field questions at the event.Late Monday, Mr. Trump phoned Mr. Pruitt to reassure him that his job was safe. “Keep your head up, keep fighting, we got your back,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pruitt, according to an administration official. Then on Tuesday morning, John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, called Mr. Pruitt to reaffirm the president’s sentiment, the official said.Despite the president’s encouraging language in the call, the depth of Mr. Trump’s support can be difficult to gauge. He dislikes direct confrontation and has been known to pivot from chummy chatter with an associate, in private, to an abrupt firing.That was the case last week with David J. Shulkin, the secretary of veterans affairs, who was fired by Mr. Kelly just hours after having what Mr. Shulkin described as a low-key phone conversation with the president about the progress he was making at the department, during which Mr. Trump said nothing of his impending ouster.On Tuesday morning, Senate Democrats sent a letter to the E.P.A.’s inspector general asking him to open an investigation into Mr. Pruitt’s housing arrangements in 2017.Mr. Pruitt came under fire last week after reports about his rental last year of a Washington residence partly owned by the wife of a top energy lobbyist whose firm, according to disclosure forms, conducted business before the E.P.A. that same year. Under terms of the lease, he paid $50 a night to stay in a condominium in the pricey Capitol Hill neighborhood.An E.P.A. spokesman on Tuesday said the lease arrangement was consistent with federal ethics regulations.Mr. Pruitt earlier this year was reprimanded by the White House after documents emerged showing that he had spent more than $107,000 in public money on first-class air travel.A Republican member of Congress took the unusual step of calling for Mr. Pruitt’s removal on Tuesday. Representative Carlos Curbelo of Florida wrote on Twitter, “Major policy differences aside, @EPAScottPruitt’s corruption scandals are an embarrassment to the Administration, and his conduct is grossly disrespectful to American taxpayers. It’s time for him to resign or for @POTUS to dismiss him.”Mr. Curbelo is a co-chairman of the House Climate Solutions Caucus, a bipartisan group that has called for efforts to address global warming.Mr. Trump on Tuesday afternoon made a brief comment when asked about Mr. Pruitt in the Cabinet Room, after The Atlantic magazine reported that Mr. Pruitt gave raises to two aides even though the White House had declined to approve the raises. “I hope he’s going to be great,” Mr. Trump said of the E.P.A. administrator. The E.P.A. spokesman said that Mr. Pruitt had not been aware that the personnel actions had not been submitted to the Presidential Personnel Office and had directed them to be submitted for review. The spokesman, Jahan Wilcox, also said that the agency had “clear authority” to make staff appointments.Chris Christie, the former New Jersey governor who himself has come under fire for ethics issues, including his handling of a bridge lane-closing scandal, said on Sunday that Mr. Pruitt’s actions were likely to cost him his job. “The president’s been ill served by this,” Mr. Christie said on ABC’s “This Week.” When asked if Mr. Pruitt should resign, he replied, “I don’t know how you survive this one.”Mr. Trump has sought to build a legacy of rolling back regulations on American industry, and Mr. Pruitt has proved to be one of his most effective lieutenants. In his first year on the job, Mr. Pruitt initiated the rollbacks of more than two dozen major environmental rules. The proposed rollback on vehicle mileage and emissions standards that he announced Tuesday is arguably the largest of those. Last year, soon after Mr. Trump’s inauguration, the nation’s biggest automakers asked the president to loosen an Obama-era rule that would have forced automakers to build cars that achieve an average fuel economy of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, nearly doubling their mileage while also reducing a major source of greenhouse gas pollution.At Mr. Trump’s request, Mr. Pruitt declared the auto regulation too onerous on industry and filed a legal document to reconsider it with the expectation of filing a new, weaker rule later this year.Initially, Mr. Pruitt’s announcement was to take place Tuesday at a Chevrolet dealership in Chantilly, Va., owned by Geoffrey Pohanka, who has spoken out against climate science and against tougher automotive standards. But while Mr. Pohanka was eager to offer his dealership as a stage for the announcement, other Chevrolet dealers were uneasy about seeing the Chevy brand used as a backdrop to Mr. Pruitt’s announcement, according to two dealers who spoke on condition of anonymity, citing their relationship with the automaker. Late Monday, the dealership said the event had been canceled. Instead, the Tuesday morning event was held at the E.P.A. headquarters, attended by a handful of auto industry lobbyists. The E.P.A. invited only a small handful of reporters to attend.“This is another step in the president’s deregulatory agenda,” Mr. Pruitt said, standing next to a row of signs that said “jobs” and “certainty.” “We are going to make sure that consumers across this country are not put in a position where they’re having to buy more expensive cars, cars that don’t really truly want to be purchased.”Afterward, when asked about the ethics questions facing his tenure, Mr. Pruitt turned and left the room, flanked by members of his security detail.Some Republicans believe the E.P.A. chief’s efforts to roll back regulations will keep him in Mr. Trump’s good graces. “So far, his reforms are estimated to save taxpayers over $1 billion in deregulatory savings,” Senator James M. Inhofe, Mr. Pruitt’s fellow Oklahoma Republican, a senior member of the Senate environment committee and a longtime supporter of Mr. Pruitt’s, wrote in a statement. “He’s been an effective member of the president’s team and I look forward to continuing to work with him to restore the E.P.A. to its proper size and scope,” Mr. Inhofe wrote.Conservative supporters said they believed it would take more than the apartment and travel scrutiny to bring down Mr. Pruitt. Myron Ebell, who led the Trump administration’s E.P.A. transition team, said he thought that as long as Mr. Pruitt pursued Mr. Trump’s agenda his job would be safe.Mr. Trump is “giving us a number of surprises, and one surprise could be that he stands by Pruitt,” Mr. Ebell said.Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Lisa Friedman contributed reporting from Washington, and Hiroko Tabuchi from New York.Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.  @CoralMDavenportFacebookAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 3:36 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The good news for President Donald Trump? His approval rating is up 7 points since last month, according to a new poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.The bad news? That only lifts Trump's approval to 42 percent, low for a president at this point in his tenure.Still, the trajectory is a welcome shift for a White House that has been battered by chaos, controversies and internal upheaval. The poll suggests that at least some of the president's improving standing is tied to the economy and the Republican tax overhaul, which offers a glimmer of hope for GOP lawmakers who plan to make both issues the centerpiece of their efforts to maintain control of Congress in November.Nearly half of Americans surveyed — 47 percent — say they approve of how Trump is handling the economy, his highest rating on any issue. When it comes to tax policy, 46 percent of Americans back Trump's moves.Advertisement"Our fortunes will rise and fall with the economy and specifically with the middle-class tax cut this fall," said Corry Bliss, executive director of the Congressional Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan. Bliss urged Republican candidates to view the law as "an offensive, not defensive weapon."AdvertisementOne of the GOP's challenges, however, will be keeping the economy and tax overhaul in the spotlight through the fall given the crush of other matters roiling the White House and competing for Americans' attention. At the White House on Monday, the daily press briefing was dominated by questions about the president's alleged affair with adult film star Stormy Daniels, a relationship he denies. Each week has seemed to bring a new departure among the president's closest advisers. And many days, Trump is more inclined to use his Twitter megaphone to try to discredit the investigation into possible campaign contacts with Russia than promote the tax overhaul.Republican operatives acknowledge that even if they can break through the clutter, they still have a ways to go when it comes to explaining the $1.5 trillion tax plan to Americans. Democrats have aggressively cast the measure, which permanently slashes the tax rate for corporations and reduces taxes for the wealthiest Americans, as a boon for the rich that offers comparatively little for the middle class.The Democratic message does appear to be breaking through with voters. Among those Americans who are familiar with the new law, 77 percent believe it helps large corporations and 73 percent say it benefits the wealthy, while 53 percent say it helps small businesses. Americans are evenly divided on whether the measure helps the middle class.Republicans argue Democrats risk overreaching by downplaying the impact that even a small windfall from the tax bill can have for a family and individual. According to the AP-NORC poll, nearly half of those who receive a paycheck — 46 percent — say they've seen an increase in their take-home pay as a result of the tax law.Heather Dilios, a 46-year-old social worker from Topsham, Maine, is among them. Dilios, a Republican, estimates she's now taking home between $100 to $200 more per paycheck as a result of the new tax law. That's more than she expected when Trump signed the legislation.Dilios said it's more than the dollar amount that's driving her support for the law."It's more about being able to keep what is rightfully mine rather than giving it to the government," she said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Overall, taxes and the economy are the brightest spots for Trump, who gets lower numbers from voters on a range of other issues, including his handling of North Korea (42 percent), trade (41 percent), gun control (39 percent) and the budget deficit (35 percent).Trump has benefited from an increasingly healthy economy that has boosted consumer and business sentiment. The 4.1 percent unemployment rate is the lowest since 2000 without the same kinds of excesses that fueled that era's tech bubble.AdvertisementWhile Trump attributes the gains to his tax cuts and deregulation efforts, many economists say conditions so far are largely a continuation of the momentum from the gradual expansion that began during the Obama administration.Trump's most recent policy moves have also rattled financial markets and raised questions about the prospect of an economic slowdown. He slapped hefty tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, though his administration has issued waivers to several countries. And last week, he moved to slap $60 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods, prompting Beijing to promise swift retaliation.The full scope and impact of Trump's proposed tariffs won't be known for some time, but the initial reaction from Americans is decidedly mixed. The AP-NORC poll finds that 38 percent support the steel and aluminum tariffs and 29 percent are opposed.The poll also finds that just 32 percent of Americans think the tariffs will lead to an increase in jobs, compared with 36 percent who think it will lead to a decrease. Forty percent think it will lead to an increase in consumer prices, while 39 percent think it will lead to a decrease.___The AP-NORC poll of 1,122 adults was conducted March 14-19 using a sample drawn from NORC's probability-based AmeriSpeak Panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.Respondents were first selected randomly using address-based sampling methods, and later interviewed online or by phone.___Online:AP-NORC Center: http://www.apnorc.org/_AP writer Josh Boak contributed to this report._We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 1:05 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  What's the White House's word worth?Days of conflicting and misleading statements from President Donald Trump and his top aides have fueled new questions about the White House's credibility, sowing mistrust and instability within the West Wing and leaving some congressional Republicans wondering if they have a good faith negotiating partner in the president.One former congressional GOP leadership aide said it was becoming impossible for Republicans to negotiate anything with White House officials, given the president's willingness to undermine his own team's public and private assurances. In turn, White House officials have found themselves in the bizarre position of urging lawmakers to ignore some of the president's own statements.That was the case on Friday, when Trump blasted out a morning tweet threatening to veto a massive government spending bill that the White House had guaranteed lawmakers and the public that he would sign. White House officials privately insisted the president was simply venting after watching news coverage that cast the deal as a defeat for several of his priorities. After hours of uncertainty, Trump's veto threat crumbled, and he ultimately signed the legislation.Still, it left some Republicans rattled."The spontaneity and lack of impulse control are areas of concern for lots of members on both sides of the aisle," said Rep. Charlie Dent, a Pennsylvania Republican who has been critical of the president. "Disorder, chaos, instability, uncertainty, intemperate statements are not conservative virtues in my opinion."AdvertisementTrent Lott, the former Republican Senate majority leader from Mississippi, said GOP lawmakers "feel a good deal of consternation" about the White House-induced whiplash. But he added: "I assume there was method in what the president did."AdvertisementMembers of both parties said they were troubled that Trump seems oblivious to how he has undermined his own clout and agenda by staking out positions and then brazenly abandoning them. Where legislators once might have attributed such missteps to the president's newness to Washington and its ways, not anymore.Trump's vacillating on the spending bill was just one in a series of recent instances that put the credibility of the White House's words under a microscope. Earlier this month, Trump bragged at a private fundraiser about having made up facts on trade during a conversation with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. And in recent days, he and his staff have issued stern denials about the prospects of national security adviser H.R. McMaster departing the White House and a potential shake-up on the legal team that handles Trump's role in the special counsel investigation into Russian election interference and obstruction of justice. Beyond public statements, White House chief of staff John Kelly had privately assured his staff that no shakeup was on the horizon.By week's end, McMaster was out. And the legal team had lost one attorney and appeared to be looking for another one.Trump's trouble with the truth is hardly new. He frequently mangles the facts on everything from the size of his inauguration crowd to the scope of the tax bill he signed late last year. And as his boasting about his interaction with Trudeau underscored, the president rarely appears to be embarrassed or ashamed about repeating statements that have been proven false."There's a fundamental difference between this White House and those of the modern era that preceded it," said Timothy Naftali, a historian and the former director of Richard Nixon's presidential library. "It doesn't care about its credibility outside of a narrow swath of the American people."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Numerous polls show a majority of Americans don't believe Trump is truthful, including a recent Quinnipiac survey in which 57 percent said the president was not honest. Trump's backers sometimes point to the fact that he was elected even though polls during the campaign showed similar results.Trump's willingness to skirt the truth has frequently put his advisers in the awkward position of issuing strong statements in public that are quickly undermined by the president. Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders repeatedly batted down reports about McMaster's ouster in the days leading up to Trump's announcement that he was bringing in a new national security adviser.And on the eve of Trump's spending bill veto threat, budget director Mick Mulvaney left no ambiguity about the president's plans to validate the measure.Advertisement"Let's cut right to the chase. Is the president going to sign the bill? Yes. Why? Because it funds his priorities," Mulvaney said.White House officials privately contend that they are often left in an impossible situation given Trump's willingness to change his mind. Even if their statements are true at the time, they say, there's no guarantee the president's position will hold.Peter Wehner, who served in the administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush, said Trump ultimately has no one to blame but himself."He doesn't even know what his own stance is," said Wehner, a frequent Trump critic. "It just devalues his word and his threats and promises and his presidency."___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 5:32 P.M. E.D.T.
HARRISBURG, Pa. —  A longtime congressional stronghold for Republicans, Pennsylvania is emerging in dramatic fashion as a source of hope for Democrats in their quest to take control of the U.S. House in November's mid-term elections.This week cemented Democratic victories in two key battles: Republicans dropped talk of legal challenges to Democrat Conor Lamb's improbable victory in a special election in southwestern Pennsylvania and federal courts rejected two GOP lawsuits seeking to block a state court-drawn map of more competitive districts.For years, Pennsylvania has hosted one of the nation's biggest Republican congressional delegations. Now, what had been a 13-to-5 Republican advantage in Pennsylvania's 18-member delegation could get wiped out.It's been seven head-spinning months.First, five Republican congressmen decided not to run again, including one — suburban Pittsburgh's Tim Murphy — who resigned last October amid a sex scandal. Those openings created opportunities for Democrats.AdvertisementThen the state Supreme Court, ruling in a gerrymandering lawsuit, junked Pennsylvania's six-year-old district boundaries that were drawn by Republicans to get Republicans elected. The court's Democratic majority redrew the boundaries, improving Democrats' chances in five districts in particular.AdvertisementAmid all that, Pennsylvania was the nation's political hot spot for a few weeks while Lamb and Republican Rick Saccone competed to fill the remainder of Murphy's term. Party strategists viewed the March 13 special election as a test of Republican strength while President Donald Trump is a divisive force.Lamb's narrow victory in a district that Trump won by nearly 20 percentage points over Hillary Clinton in 2016's presidential election sent shivers down Republican spines everywhere as the primary season unfolds.___AVALANCHE OF CANDIDATESBy Tuesday night's deadline, 94 people filed signatures to get on May 15's primary election ballot in Pennsylvania's congressional districts. That's more than twice the number who appeared on 2016's primary ballot.Of those, 59 are Democrats and 35 are Republicans.___ENDANGERED REPUBLICANSThe redrawn districts overhauled a map in which Trump won 12 of Pennsylvania's 18 districts — one of them by a fraction of a percentage point — in 2016. Under the new map, Trump would have won 10.Republican and Democratic strategists agree that three Republican congressmen face serious challenges: second-term Ryan Costello, freshman Brian Fitzpatrick and third-term Keith Rothfus.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Costello, who has privately told party brass that he may not run, is in dire straits.Under the discarded map, Costello's suburban Philadelphia district had a Republican majority that nevertheless helped Clinton beat Trump there by 2 percentage points in 2016. The redrawn district has slightly more Democrats and Clinton would have won it by 9 percentage points. Democratic challenger Chrissy Houlahan is considered one of the top 33 challengers nationwide by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.Fitzpatrick's district was already a swing district, and the court's boundaries made it slightly tougher for a Republican. It now has about 10,000 more Democrats and Clinton would have won it by 2 percentage points. Three Democrats filed petitions to challenge him.Rothfus' 100-mile-long district in western Pennsylvania was redrawn into a tight shape in suburban Pittsburgh. A rock-solid conservative district that Trump won by nearly 21 percentage points is now considered a tossup. Compounding the bad news for Rothfus is that Lamb lives in the district and filed to run there, although Lamb still faces a three-way primary race.Advertisement___THE TOSSUP DISTRICTRetiring Republican Rep. Charlie Dent's 80-mile-long district in eastern Pennsylvania was redrawn back into its longtime Allentown-area territory and is considered a tossup. Six Democrats and two Republicans filed to run there.___FLIPPING A DISTRICTNow that he isn't running again, Republican Rep. Pat Meehan's seat is expected to fall into Democratic hands. The district — nicknamed "Goofy Kicking Donald Duck" for its contorted boundaries snaking through four counties that Republicans drew to save Meehan from Philadelphia's increasingly liberal suburbs — was compressed back into its historic Delaware County base. Clinton would have won it by 28 percentage points.With that in mind, an eye-popping 14 Democrats filed to run there. Delaware County's Democratic Party chairman David Landau said he couldn't predict who would win.For years, the party struggled to find good candidates to challenge Meehan, Landau said."Since Donald Trump became president, no more," Landau said. "Since redistricting, we found even more good candidates."___Follow Marc Levy on Twitter at www.twitter.com/timelywriter .We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 8:12 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin is making it clear he was fired from his job amid conflicting claims from the White House.White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters on Sunday told The Associated Press that Shulkin had "resigned" from his job when President Donald Trump abruptly announced via Twitter last Wednesday that he was nominating White House doctor Ronny Jackson to replace him.But in television interviews, Shulkin said he had not submitted a resignation letter, or planned to, and was only told of Trump's decision shortly before the Twitter announcement. He said he had spoken to Trump by phone earlier that day about VA improvements, with no mention of his job status, and was scheduled to meet with the president the next morning."I came to run the Department of Veterans Affairs because I'm committed to veterans," Shulkin said. "And I would not resign because I'm committed to making sure this job was seen through to the very end."AdvertisementThe semantics could be relevant to Trump's ability to name an acting VA secretary to temporarily fill Shulkin's place. Last week, Trump named Defense Department official Robert Wilkie to the acting position, bypassing Shulkin's deputy secretary, Tom Bowman. Bowman has come under criticism for being too moderate to push Trump's agenda.AdvertisementUnder federal law, a president has wide authority to temporarily fill a federal agency job if someone "dies, resigns, or is otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office." There is no mention of a president having that authority if the person is fired. Still, it's unclear if courts would seek to draw a legal distinction between a firing and a forced resignation, if that is indeed what happened to Shulkin.The day after announcing he was replacing Shulkin, Trump told a rally in Richfield, Ohio, that he had been dissatisfied with efforts to improve the VA. Shulkin had enjoyed Trump's support for much of his first year in the administration, but that eroded in February after a bruising ethics scandal and political infighting at the VA.On Sunday, chagrined by Shulkin's public statements blaming his ouster on unfair "political forces" in the Trump administration, the White House circulated a "talking points" memo to some veterans groups in a bid to discredit him. The three-page memo points out seven "lies" that it said Shulkin had spread, including statements in which he minimizes a VA watchdog report in February that concluded he violated ethics rules by accepting free Wimbledon tennis tickets. The VA inspector general has previously found Shulkin made misleading statements about the trip to investigators and the news media.A VA spokesman did not have immediate comment. Wilkie, now listed on the VA website as acting secretary, took over Shulkin's duties last week.The back and forth over the circumstances behind Shulkin's departure — and what it could mean for Wilkie's status — comes as the nomination of Jackson is drawing concern among lawmakers and veterans groups. They worry the Navy rear admiral and lifelong physician lacks the experience to manage an enormous agency paralyzed over Trump's push to expand private care.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump's new Cabinet nominees also are beginning to pile up in the Senate, likely leading to weeks of confirmation battles and other delays in the run-up to congressional midterm elections in November. That could mean an extended reign for an acting VA secretary.On Sunday, Shulkin, who had previously recommended Jackson to be VA undersecretary of health, repeatedly demurred when asked to fully endorse Jackson for the job of VA secretary. He noted the complexity of running the government's second-largest department."This is a very tough job," Shulkin said. "I'm not sure that anybody realizes how complex this is. ... I think he is going to need to have a good team around him, like everybody will, to be successful."AdvertisementShulkin's dismissal comes amid a broader shakeup of top Trump administration officials and accusations of excessive spending by Cabinet officials. Also currently under fire are Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson.The Associated Press reported last week that Pruitt paid just $50 a night for about six months last year to stay in a Capitol Hill condominium linked to a prominent Washington lobbyist whose firm represents fossil fuel companies.On Sunday, former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, and Sen. Doug Jones, D-Ala., questioned whether Pruitt would be able to last in his job."I don't know how you survive this one, and if he has to go, it's because he never should've been there in the first place," Christie said."He's in real trouble," Jones said. "I think it seems that he may be on his way out."Shulkin spoke on CNN's "State of the Union" and NBC's "Meet the Press," and Jones and Christie appeared on ABC's "This Week."___Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed from Palm Beach, Florida.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 1:14 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The audience for the second week of ABC's "Roseanne" reboot was down, but not by much. The Nielsen company said that 15.2 million people watched the show on Tuesday night.That's off 16 percent from the 18.2 million who watched the show's premiere last Tuesday. With delayed viewing, that first show has already been seen by more than 25 million people.It has to be heartening to ABC that so many people who sampled the sitcom stuck with it. The audience is roughly triple what ABC drew for "The Middle" when it aired in the same time slot a year ago.President Donald Trump has taken some credit for its popularity because Roseanne Barr's character supports him in the show.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MICHAEL WINESAPRIL 3, 2018
WASHINGTON — A largely Democratic coalition of 17 state attorneys general and seven cities filed a lawsuit Tuesday to block the Trump administration from asking respondents to the 2020 census whether they are citizens, opening a constitutional battle that some experts believe is destined to be settled by the Supreme Court.In the lawsuit, filed in United States District Court in New York, the officials argued that adding the citizenship question would depress the response to the census by noncitizens and their relatives, thwarting the Constitution’s requirement of an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents. The suit also claimed that the decision violated federal administrative law and a law setting standards for data quality.At a news conference announcing the suit, officials and House members representing some of the plaintiff states accused the White House of seeking to destroy the census’s bipartisan tradition for political gain.“This is a brazen attempt by the Trump administration to cheat on the census, to undermine the accuracy of the census and to attack states that have large immigrant populations — states, most of which just happen to be Democratic states,” said Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York.AdvertisementThe decennial count of United States residents, which the Constitution mandates to include both citizens and noncitizens, is used to apportion House seats among the states and to redraw both local and state political boundaries. The head count also determines the allocation of hundreds of billions of dollars in federal grants and subsidies.AdvertisementSeventeen Democratic state attorneys general and seven cities joined the lawsuit, as well as the United States Conference of Mayors, which represents 1,400 cities with both Republican and Democratic leaders. Among the cities was Providence, R.I., where the only full dress rehearsal of the 2020 census is currently underway.
                A look at the top assistance programs that rely on census data for funding and how congressional seats could be affected if noncitizens go uncounted.            The decision to add a citizenship question to the census, announced March 26 by Commerce Secretary Wilbur L. Ross Jr., came too late for the question to be included in the Providence trial.A prolonged legal battle over the issue could complicate preparations for the 2020 count. Census officials said last week that they hope to begin finalizing plans for the census this autumn, and delays in printing — not just census forms, but material to train workers who will ask questions, and public information brochures — could drive up costs.Courts “usually have been respectful of these sorts of deadlines,” said Robert M. Groves, the provost at Georgetown University and a director of the census during the Obama administration. “To the unschooled observer, a census seems like it just can’t be that complicated. But there are certain things you just can’t postpone.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In adding the question to the census, Mr. Ross bypassed the years of testing and evaluation given all other questions, stating that there was only limited evidence that asking respondents whether they were citizens would keep people from participating. But the lawsuit noted that both the Census Bureau and all its living former directors had repeatedly warned since 1980, in lawsuits and congressional testimony, that questioning residents about their immigration status or citizenship would “inevitably jeopardize the overall accuracy of the population count.”“Those concerns have been amplified by the anti-immigrant policies, actions and rhetoric targeting immigrant communities from President Trump and this administration,” the lawsuit stated.The suit also argued that the administration’s stated reason for gathering citizenship information — to better enforce the 1965 Voting Rights Act — was specious, noting that Trump re-election campaign materials stated that the president “officially mandated” the inclusion of the question.The filing also claims that by skirting requirements to test the citizenship question, and offering no valid reason for its addition, the Commerce Department violated the Administrative Procedure Act and the Information Quality Act, also known as the Data Quality Act.The procedure act prohibits actions by federal agencies that are arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion. The Information Quality Act requires agencies to set testing and evaluation requirements that result in accurate and reliable data and high response rates by citizens participating in surveys.An earlier version of this article misattributed a quotation criticizing the Trump administration’s action on the 2020 census. It was Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, who called the move “a brazen attempt by the Trump administration to cheat on the census,” not Ellen F. Rosenblum, Oregon’s attorney general.A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 2018, on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Cities and States Undertake a Court Challenge to a Census Question on Citizenship.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy David LeonhardtThis article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.Conor Lamb, a Democrat, appears to have pulled off a shocking upset in a Pennsylvania congressional election last night.The race is still too close to call. But Lamb has a 641-vote lead over the Republican, Rick Saccone, and the remaining uncounted ballots are absentee ballots, which tend to lean Democratic.It will be a remarkable win if Lamb holds on. Donald Trump in 2016 and Mitt Romney in 2012 both won this district, in the Pittsburgh area, by almost 20 percentage points. Last night’s result is a sign that, while Trump may be holding onto his base, most voters are unhappy with his presidency. Republicans are looking at a very difficult midterm election.One other point: There’s an ongoing debate, which I’ve covered before, about whether Democrats should focus this year on turning out their base or persuading swing voters. Lamb’s probable win helps answer the question: Both.Democrats appear to have turned out at a much higher rate than Republicans last night, as G. Elliott Morris notes (with handy charts). But Lamb — a populist who is moderate on cultural issues — also clearly won over a bunch of Trump voters, given the district’s conservatism.The 2018 midterm elections are a vital chance to check Trump’s power. They are, as David Remnick wrote this week, a “stress test of liberal democracy.” Given their importance, Democrats shouldn’t get caught up in either-or debates about turnout and persuasion.Rexit. Serve President Trump at your own risk.Just think about how badly Rex Tillerson damaged his reputation over the last 18 months. He went from being the longtime chief executive of one of the world’s biggest companies to suffering Trump’s repeated public humiliations. They culminated in yesterday’s firing by tweet.Elsewhere: In the end, the leader Tillerson failed to understand was not any foreign head of state but his own boss, argues Politico’s Susan Glasser.Many liberals are celebrating Tillerson’s firing as the end of the tenure of the nation’s worst secretary of state. But as The New Republic’s Jeet Heer and The Times’s editorial board each write, Tillerson’s replacement, Mike Pompeo, could make Tillerson’s sins look small by comparison. In The New Yorker, Dexter Filkins looked at Gina Haspel, Trump’s new choice to run the C.I.A., and her background overseeing illegal torture.Also in The Times, Samantha Power and Paul Pillar offer their perspectives on Pompeo.You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).AdvertisementBy REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 4:01 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Beijing's objections to U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs are "completely baseless" and there is no justification to impose $3 billion in retaliatory tariffs on U.S. fruits, nuts and other goods, the Trump administration said it told China and the World Trade Organization Wednesday.China's requests for consultations under WTO rules and its objection to tariffs were based on an erroneous conclusion that the steel and aluminum tariffs were "global safeguard" measures to protect industry against a surge of imports, the communication issued by the U.S. Trade Representative's (USTR) office said.But USTR said that the steel and aluminum tariffs were put in place on national security grounds. WTO rules include an exemption for measures related to national security.USTR said it would not engage in discussions with China about its safeguard objections to the tariffs.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Susan Thomas)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 2:18 P.M. E.D.T.
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. —  Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley is demanding information from Facebook following allegations that the social media giant mishandled user data.The Republican Senate candidate announced Monday that his office issued a civil investigative demand, which functions like a subpoena. It seeks details on how Facebook collects and shares user information.Facebook didn't immediately comment when contacted by The Associated Press.Hawley is among 37 attorneys general who signed a letter last week asking Facebook similar questions. The Federal Trade Commission is also investigating.Hawley's announcement follows revelations that a consulting firm affiliated with President Donald Trump got data on millions of unsuspecting Facebook users. Facebook is also facing criticism for collecting years of data on call and text histories from Android users.Hawley is running for Democratic U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill's seat.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By HELENE COOPERAPRIL 4, 2018
WASHINGTON — A little over a year ago, when news surfaced of a Trump administration memo that proposed mobilizing as many as 100,000 National Guard troops to round up unauthorized immigrants at the southern border, a White House spokesman quickly denounced the reports as “irresponsible.”“That is 100 percent not true,” Sean Spicer, the press secretary at the time, told reporters aboard Air Force One. “There is no effort at all to round up, to utilize the National Guard to round up illegal immigrants.”At the Pentagon, where officials had greeted the news grimly, there were sighs of relief: Military leaders have long opposed sending National Guard troops to the border.“There is a significant opportunity cost,” said James G. Stavridis, a retired four-star admiral who commanded United States forces in Europe and Latin America and is now dean of The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, adding that troops sent to the border with Mexico — ostensibly an American ally — would “miss important training opportunities for their real primary mission — combat.”AdvertisementBut the idea that Mr. Spicer called inconceivable a year ago is back in play.On Wednesday, White House officials said that President Trump planned to mobilize the National Guard to the southern border. The announcement came a day after Mr. Trump surprised some of his top advisers by saying that he wanted to send in the military to do what the immigration authorities, in his view, could not: secure the border from what he characterized as a growing threat of unauthorized immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America.AdvertisementKirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Wednesday that her department and the Defense Department would work with governors to deploy the Guard to “assist the Border Patrol.” But beyond that, officials had few details about how many troops would go, when they would arrive or in what capacity they would serve.Ms. Nielsen said she hoped the deployment would begin “immediately,” but administration officials said the formal agreements with governors that would allow the troops to mobilize were still being negotiated.At the Pentagon, several officials privately expressed concern about being seen as picking a fight with an ally at a time when the military has plenty of adversaries — the Islamic State, North Korea, Russia, Syria — to contend with. Massing American troops at another country’s border, several current and former Defense Department officials said, would send a message of hostility and raise the chances of provoking an all-out conflict.“We are so lucky here in this country when you look at our borders,” said Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, a retired veteran of the Iraq war. “We’ve got the Pacific on one side, the Atlantic on the other and allies to the north and the south. Mexico is not an adversary. Why would you present this offensive barrier to a friendly country?”Frustrated that his promised border wall remains a long way from being built, Mr. Trump said he had been discussing deploying the National Guard to the border with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who sat next to him on Tuesday as the president complained about what he called America’s weak immigration laws.Despite the historically low number of apprehensions at the border last year, data released on Wednesday by Customs and Border Protection showed a steady uptick since the beginning of the year. Last month, 37,393 individuals were caught by the Border Patrol, up from 26,662 the month before and 25,978 in January.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Defense Department officials say that Mr. Mattis backs the proposal if it mirrors deployments made under Mr. Trump’s predecessors, when troops were sent in a support, but not enforcement, role. The active-duty military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions, such as apprehending people at the border. But President Barack Obama sent 1,200 troops in 2010 and President George W. Bush dispatched 6,000 in 2006 to act in support roles for border authority officials.But military officials worry that Mr. Trump may not be satisfied with the Bush- and Obama-level deployments. Even limited deployments, Pentagon officials said, have come with their share of trouble.AdvertisementIn 1997, Esequiel Hernandez Jr., an 18-year-old American student, was killed by a group of  United States Marines on a drug surveillance mission in Redford, Tex., while he was herding goats. Mr. Hernandez was the first American civilian to be killed by active-duty military troops since the Kent State massacre in 1970, and the episode led the Clinton administration to suspend troop patrols near the border.That kind of encounter, or worse, could erupt if Mr. Trump sends a large number of National Guard troops to join the high number of other personnel already guarding the border, Defense Department officials said.Homeland security has more than 16,000 Border Patrol agents on the southwest border, along with 6,500 customs officers at the ports of entry. Customs and Border Protection has several drones flying along the border, as well as 12,000 sensors, nearly 700 miles of fencing and other technology including infrared cameras. Immigration and Customs Enforcement runs several task forces that involve personnel from other agencies, including the Defense Department, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Treasury Department.As Mr. Mattis unveiled the Pentagon’s National Defense Strategy and Mr. Trump his National Security Strategy in recent months, the two men took different routes. Mr. Mattis stuck to a framework that has accompanied past administrations’ foreign policy doctrines and talked about the importance of strengthening, not weakening, American alliances with other countries. Mr. Trump, in contrast, peppered his speech with references to building a wall along the border with Mexico.Even if Mr. Mattis tried to steer Mr. Trump toward the limited border deployment used by his predecessors, the president “would want it to be visible,” said Dov S. Zakheim, the Pentagon’s top financial officer during Mr. Bush’s first term. “He would want to have troops literally patrolling the border. It wouldn’t be enough to have drones.”But if Mexico responded by putting troops on its side of the border, Mr. Zakheim said, the situation could deteriorate quickly.“All it takes is one mistake,” he said. “Somebody fires. And then what?”Ron Nixon and Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: ‘All It Takes Is One Mistake’: Worries About Sending National Guard to Border.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By TINA JORDAN and SUSAN ELLINGWOODMARCH 13, 2018
Rex W. Tillerson is out as United States secretary of state. He will be replaced by Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director. President Trump announced his decision on Twitter.
            Mike Pompeo, Director of the CIA, will become our new Secretary of State. He will do a fantastic job! Thank you to Rex Tillerson for his service! Gina Haspel will become the new Director of the CIA, and the first woman so chosen. Congratulations to all!        Now that Mr. Tillerson has some free time, here are seven books by his predecessors that he might want to read and reflect on:“Hard Choices,” by Hillary Clinton“No Higher Honor: A Memoir of My Years in Washington,” by Condoleezza Rice“It Worked for Me: In Life and Leadership,” by Colin Powell“Madame Secretary: A Memoir,” by Madeleine Albright“The Politics of Diplomacy,” by James A. Baker III“Turmoil and Triumph: My Years as Secretary of State,” by George P. Shultz,“White House Years,” by Henry KissingerFollow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 6:04 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The third wife of former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has filed for divorce.Judith Giuliani filed divorce papers Wednesday at a court in Manhattan, listing the case as "contested."The filing comes 15 years after the couple was married in Manhattan, with Donald Trump as a guest long before his successful 2016 run for the presidency on the Republican ticket.Divorce proceeding documents are not public in New York City, though the title of the case is entered into the court computer system. It was not immediately clear who will represent Giuliani.Before his third marriage, Giuliani was married for 20 years to Donna Hanover. Previously, he was married for 14 years to his second cousin, Regina Peruggi. That marriage was later annulled.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Best of Late Night By                     
 GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
 
MARCH 22, 2018
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Trevor Noah on Wednesday excoriated Facebook for failing to keep millions of users’ data secure. He poked fun at Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, whose net worth has plummeted because of the scandal.“Mark Zuckerberg is not having a good day. Things are so bad for him right now that Facebook is showing him ads for Xanax.” — TREVOR NOAHNoah pointed out that Facebook had not informed its users when it discovered a major breach of their privacy. “They need to be held accountable,” Noah said. Then he urged viewers to remember that many sites closely monitor users’ activity.“At the same time, though, it’s our responsibility to be vigilant,” he said. “In the year 2018, you have to assume everything you click online, everything you watch, every website you visit will be collecting data on you — and that data will be used eventually to try to sell you something.”AdvertisementSeth Meyers on Wednesday revisited President Trump’s recent call with Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin. During the call, Trump congratulated Putin for his win in Sunday’s election — something Trump’s staff had instructed him specifically not to do.“Trump was given briefing materials stating specifically in all caps, ‘DO NOT CONGRATULATE.’ But his aides said they were not sure he read the notes. Oh, I can promise you, he didn’t read the notes. He also didn’t read the Bible, he didn’t read the Constitution, he didn’t read the sign that says, ‘No carts on the green.’ He probably doesn’t even know what it says on his own hat — and it doesn’t even seem like he can read the writing on the wall.” — SETH MEYERS, showing a photo of the special counsel, Robert MuellerAdvertisementJimmy Kimmel pointed to reports that Trump is irate because details about the call to Putin were leaked to the news media.“The fact that we know he’s mad about the leak is because someone leaked his reaction to the leak. It’s a lot of leaks. It might be time for this White House to start wearing Depends.” — JIMMY KIMMEL“This was cute: President Trump built a snowman on the White House lawn — then immediately fired it.” — JIMMY FALLON, discussing the winter storm that hit the East Coast on Wednesday“President Trump is now being sued by a porn star, a reality star and a Playboy model. Or as Trump’s evangelical supporters call that, the holy trinity.” — CONAN O’BRIENSamantha Bee marked the 15th anniversary of the American invasion of Iraq by looking at how our political discourse has changed in the years since.Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the Supreme Court doesn’t want to wrestle with Stephen Colbert.On Thursday, “The Tonight Show” welcomes the actor Will Smith and Fran Lebowitz, the comic author and famed New Yorker.Our graphics team gives you David Bowie’s costumes — in three dimensions.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:26 A.M. E.D.T.
BRUSSELS —  A full-scale global trade war has not broken out yet - but that hasn't stopped the market from fretting about one or analysts from warning about the potential cost.Whether such concerns remain a driving force for asset prices in the coming days depends largely on decisions, tweets and formal announcements from Washington and Beijing, but it seems certain that the uncertainty has at least another month to run.South Korea has cut a deal with the United States, agreeing to reduce its steel exports to avoid tariffs. The European Union, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Australia and Argentina face a May 1 deadline to reach equivalent deals.U.S. President Donald Trump has tied the suspension of tariffs for Canada and Mexico to a renegotiation of NAFTA. Officials have said the next round of talks was due to start on April 8, but that date is not certain and there are mixed messages on the chances of a quick breakthrough.AdvertisementChina has meanwhile warned that it could target a broad range of U.S. businesses if Trump slapped tariffs on $50 billion-$60 billion of largely high tech Chinese goods, although the latter may not happen until early June.AdvertisementSLIPPERY SLOPEEconomists at ING split such a conflict into four stages from a lone Trump attack to a tit-for-tat battle to U.S. escalation, such as including EU cars, and finally an all-out trade war.The last, ING estimates, would harm all economies, with the United States facing the heaviest hit, of some 2 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) over two years, with U.S exporters facing high tariffs at all borders while the rest of the world keeps its prevailing arrangements in place.Only in the first scenario, in which Trump imposes tariffs and no one retaliates, would the United States make any noticeable economic gain - of some 0.3 percent of GDP.ING's head of international trade analysis Raoul Leering said that the conflict was currently somewhere between the first scenario and the second 'tit-for-tat' stage."If other countries give in and give Trump something in return, then we're looking at scenario one," he said. "It's a conflict in which Trump could turn out to be the winner."Harm Bandholz, chief U.S. economist at UniCredit, believes that the trade conflict is likely to be the main driver of market sentiment for weeks to come, although for the time being it is "barely more than tough talk", with strong announcements then watered down, such as with the metal tariff exemptions."If it stays like this it's not really altering anything in the macro outlook. The risk is, once you've started, you're on a slippery slope and you don't know if you can stop. That's the risk markets are worried about," he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."People are worried about accidents happening. Clearly, if you are more aggressive, the chances of mistakes or something bad happening will increase."AdvertisementEUROPEAN PRICES, U.S. JOBSAll that said, and even with many in Europe off for Easter vacation, some major economic data is due in the coming week.The Bank of Japan's quarterly tankan survey, out on Tuesday, is expected to show business sentiment deteriorating slightly in the three months to March with the outlook for the coming quarter also fading, reflecting concerns over the strong yen eroding business profits.In Europe, the first estimate of euro zone inflation will be released on Wednesday and is forecast to have risen to 1.4 percent in March from 1.1 percent in February, with some economists pointing to a potential 1.5 percent.An earlier Easter this year, pushing up prices of package holidays and accommodation in March, cold weather that drives fruit and vegetable prices higher and a steeper year-on-year increase in energy costs will all contribute.Even if inflation remains short of the European Central Bank's target of almost 2 percent, its policymakers are now debating whether to end lavish bond buys later this year. The purchase program currently runs until the end of September.U.S. monthly non-farm payrolls round off the week on Friday. The economy is seen adding far fewer jobs than the 313,000 of February, but the average Reuters forecast for March of 203,000 is still strong and the unemployment rate is set to fall to 4.0 percent, a level not seen since 2000."We see further declines of the rate below the level the Fed thinks is the natural rate of unemployment. Over time, you would expect it would exert upward pressure on wages, which admittedly we have not really seen," Commerzbank's Bernd Weidensteiner."It should happen during the course of this year. Otherwise, we really need to rethink our picture of the workings of the U.S. labor market."(Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; Editing by Hugh Lawson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 3:16 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The United States and China may pursue negotiations to resolve deepening differences over trade, a U.S. trade official said on Wednesday, but he declined to say whether any new high-level meetings were planned.The official also said retaliatory tariffs proposed by China on $50 billion worth of U.S. goods on Wednesday, hours after Washington readied tariffs on a similar amount of Chinese goods, were an attempt to "intimidate" the Trump administration to "back down" from its trade demands."As the president himself made clear, whenever he announced the 301 actions, there have been talks, there may continue to be talks," the official told reporters on a conference call. "We would like to see China change its actions and we'd like to see them move in a more market oriented direction."(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by David Gregorio)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 9:48 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Supreme Court is rejecting an appeal from American victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East more than a decade ago.The justices are not commenting Monday in ending a lawsuit against the PLO and Palestinian Authority in connection with attacks in Israel in 2002 and 2004 that killed 33 people. A lower court tossed out a $654 million verdict against the Palestinians.The Trump administration sided with the Palestinians in calling on the high court to leave the lower court ruling in place. The federal appeals court in New York said U.S. courts can't consider lawsuits against foreign-based groups over random attacks that were not aimed at the United States.The victims sued under the Anti-Terrorism Act, passed to open U.S. courts to American victims of international terrorism.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 6:46 P.M. E.D.T.
LOS ANGELES/SAN FRANCISCO —  California farmers, many of whom voted for President Donald Trump and his tough talk on trade, say China's increased tariffs on products like almonds, pistachios and wine are a competitive blow, but some are hopeful they will lead to a better deal down the road.China said at the weekend that it was imposing retaliatory tariffs of between 15 and 25 percent on $2.75 billion worth of U.S. imports, including frozen pork, nuts and wine, in response to steep duties on aluminum and steel announced by the Trump administration.While California overall voted decisively for Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, many of the state's farmers supported Trump, who said he wanted to make international trade deals more fair.All but one of the state's top-five pistachio-producing counties went for Trump, as did the state's top almond-producing county, Kern.AdvertisementCalifornia almond farmer David Phippen says he has talked to a number of fellow almond farmers who continue to support Trump's efforts on trade even though they are disappointed to be hit by new tariffs that make their products more expensive in China.Advertisement"Is the administration going to get us a better deal? How long will it take to get that better deal?" Phippen said. "We have sustainability, but it's limited."Pistachios are California's biggest agricultural export to China, which bought $531 million worth of the nuts in 2016. Prior to the new tariffs, China had existing duties of 5 percent on raw pistachios and 10 percent on roasted pistachios from the United States, said Richard Matoian, executive director of the American Pistachio Growers.The additional 15 percent tariff "impacts our ability to compete with our competitors from Iran," said Matoian. California and Iran over the years have traded the title of world's top pistachio producer, he added.Almonds are China's second-biggest import from California farms. In 2016, China took 12 percent of California's almond crop, which was valued at about $518 million.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Chinese levy on U.S. almonds goes up from 10 percent to 25 percent, said Richard Waycott, president and chief executive of the Almond Board of California.Nut producers and sellers including Blue Diamond Growers, the Wonderful Co and Emerald Nuts owner Campbell Soup Co declined comment.California wine is also taking a hit.The latest import levy on wine will increase the total tariff and tax paid on a bottle of U.S. wine imported into China from 48.2 percent to 67.7 percent, according to the Wine Institute, which represents 1,000 wineries and affiliated businesses in California.The United States, predominantly California, exported wine valued at nearly $79 million to China last year, according to the Wine Institute.AdvertisementAustralia could be set to benefit. As well as being geographically closer to China, in 2019 it will begin exporting almonds, wine and other products to China tariff-free.Chile and New Zealand wines also enter China tariff-free and only pay a 30 percent combined tax rate, the Wine Institute said."U.S. producers were already at a disadvantage to many foreign competitors, and this will only exacerbate that problem," said Robert Koch, president and CEO of Wine Institute.(Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles and Ann Saphir in San Francisco, Editing by Rosalba O'Brien)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 7:30 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis acknowledged Tuesday that he and President Donald Trump's incoming national security adviser, John Bolton, have different world views but predicted they will develop a working partnership."I look forward to working with him — no reservations, no concerns at all," Mattis told reporters at an impromptu news conference. "Last time I checked he's an American. I'm not in the least bit concerned."Mattis said he has never met Bolton, a former ambassador to the United Nations and conservative firebrand. He said he expects Bolton to pay a visit to the Pentagon soon, perhaps this week, to begin developing a relationship."I'll tell you right up front: it's going to be a partnership," he said. When a reporter mentioned that people see his world view as significantly different than that of Bolton, Mattis replied, "That's the normal thing you want, unless you want group-think."AdvertisementBolton, who will replace Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster on April 9, has publicly advocated for overthrowing the North Korean government, possibly by force. Mattis, a retired Marine general who knows intimately the costs of war, favors diplomacy to rid the North of its nuclear weapons and has said war on the Korean peninsula would be "catastrophic." On Iran, too, Mattis would seem at odds with Bolton, who has argued for abandoning the Obama-era nuclear deal.AdvertisementThese and other matters of war and peace will test Mattis' influence with Trump as his national security team is overhauled.Mattis was sometimes at odds with McMaster, but the arrival of the hawkish Bolton, combined with the firing of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and the uncertain status of John Kelly as White House chief of staff, appears to leave Mattis more isolated than at any time since he took over the Pentagon 15 months ago.The North Korea issue is front-and-center: Trump has agreed to meet with North Korean President Kim Jong Un by May to discuss the North's nuclear disarmament. The unprecedented summit could be a turning point in a decades-old U.S.-North Korean standoff that Trump himself has said could end in "fire and fury" - an American nuclear attack __ to stop the North from gaining the ability to strike the U.S. with a nuclear missile."This is buckle-up time," retired Navy Adm. James Stavridis, dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, said last week on MSNBC. "For the military I have three words: Sharpen your swords. He (Bolton) is someone who is going to reach for the military instrument."The changes in the White House and at the State Department, while significant for Mattis, are hardly heart-stopping. People close to him sense no change in his commitment to the job; some suggest that Trump's decision to move former Republican congressman and current CIA director Mike Pompeo to State, replacing Tillerson, could benefit Mattis in the sense that he'll have a partner at State who is better aligned with Trump.Publicly, Mattis has said little about the shakeup. He was in Afghanistan when Tillerson got the ax. When reporters asked his reaction a couple of days later, Mattis said he preferred not to comment on the details, although he went on to suggest that its importance was being exaggerated. He said that in all of his discussions abroad with foreign government officials and American troops, the matter was not brought up once.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I understand why you're asking, but I'm just pointing out that in most parts of the world this is a Washington, D.C., story," he said.Another Washington story is Mattis and his ability to forge a workable relationship with Trump despite differences on some issues like the Iran nuclear deal, which Mattis says is flawed but worth honoring as long as the Iranians do. Mattis also has differed with the president over Trump's wish to bar all transgender people from serving in the military, and he helped sway Trump from his inclination last year to end U.S. military involvement in Afghanistan.AdvertisementThe Mattis formula seems to be simple. Out of the spotlight, out of trouble. The less he says publicly, the less he risks losing influence with Trump."Part of his success ... is absolutely the fact that you don't see him in the limelight terribly much," says Loren Dejonge Schulman, a defense analyst at the Center for a New American Security who served in key national security positions in the White House and Pentagon under President Barack Obama. "That may be keeping him out of trouble with the White House but I think it's setting an incredibly bad precedent in terms of Pentagon transparency."If Mattis, who spent more than 40 years in uniform and is the first career military officer to lead the Pentagon since George C. Marshall in the early 1950s, isn't the most experienced politician to run the military's vast bureaucracy, he has shown a knack for staying out of trouble with his thin-skinned boss.Mattis has even broken Trump of his habit of calling the retired general "Mad Dog," which Mattis insists was a media invention to begin with.Trump frequently has lunch and dinners with the defense secretary and speaks glowingly of him to outside advisers. White House officials have said that Trump sometimes repeats military historical anecdotes he heard from Mattis.Even Mattis' few known stumbles have not dogged him. In August, for example, Mattis told sailors at a submarine base in his home state of Washington that the Navy would give them the worst and the best days of their lives, and then added, "That means you're not some (expletive) sitting on the sidelines," he said. "You know what I mean, kind of sitting there saying, 'Well, I should have done something with my life.'"His language was quickly forgotten.The episode pointed to a man who has shaped the job and not let it shape him. So much so that perhaps the most poignant criticism of his tenure has been the secrecy with which the military has handled everything from troop deployment numbers to the details of its military strategies — things that often were made public under previous secretaries.___Associated Press writer Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:21 P.M. E.D.T.
BRUSSELS —  A full-scale global trade war has not broken out yet - but that hasn't stopped the market from fretting about one or analysts from warning about the potential cost.Whether such concerns remain a driving force for asset prices in the coming days depends largely on decisions, tweets and formal announcements from Washington and Beijing, but it seems certain that the uncertainty has at least another month to run.South Korea has cut a deal with the United States, agreeing to reduce its steel exports to avoid tariffs. The European Union, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Australia and Argentina face a May 1 deadline to reach equivalent deals.U.S. President Donald Trump has tied the suspension of tariffs for Canada and Mexico to a renegotiation of NAFTA. Officials have said the next round of talks was due to start on April 8, but that date is not certain and there are mixed messages on the chances of a quick breakthrough.AdvertisementChina has meanwhile warned that it could target a broad range of U.S. businesses if Trump slapped tariffs on $50 billion-$60 billion of largely high tech Chinese goods, although the latter may not happen until early June.AdvertisementSLIPPERY SLOPEEconomists at ING split such a conflict into four stages from a lone Trump attack to a tit-for-tat battle to U.S. escalation, such as including EU cars, and finally an all-out trade war.The last, ING estimates, would harm all economies, with the United States facing the heaviest hit, of some 2 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) over two years, with U.S exporters facing high tariffs at all borders while the rest of the world keeps its prevailing arrangements in place.Only in the first scenario, in which Trump imposes tariffs and no one retaliates, would the United States make any noticeable economic gain - of some 0.3 percent of GDP.ING's head of international trade analysis Raoul Leering said that the conflict was currently somewhere between the first scenario and the second 'tit-for-tat' stage."If other countries give in and give Trump something in return, then we're looking at scenario one," he said. "It's a conflict in which Trump could turn out to be the winner."Harm Bandholz, chief U.S. economist at UniCredit, believes that the trade conflict is likely to be the main driver of market sentiment for weeks to come, although for the time being it is "barely more than tough talk", with strong announcements then watered down, such as with the metal tariff exemptions."If it stays like this it's not really altering anything in the macro outlook. The risk is, once you've started, you're on a slippery slope and you don't know if you can stop. That's the risk markets are worried about," he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."People are worried about accidents happening. Clearly, if you are more aggressive, the chances of mistakes or something bad happening will increase."AdvertisementEUROPEAN PRICES, U.S. JOBSAll that said, and even with many in Europe off for Easter vacation, some major economic data is due in the coming week.The Bank of Japan's quarterly tankan survey, out on Tuesday, is expected to show business sentiment deteriorating slightly in the three months to March with the outlook for the coming quarter also fading, reflecting concerns over the strong yen eroding business profits.In Europe, the first estimate of euro zone inflation will be released on Wednesday and is forecast to have risen to 1.4 percent in March from 1.1 percent in February, with some economists pointing to a potential 1.5 percent.An earlier Easter this year, pushing up prices of package holidays and accommodation in March, cold weather that drives fruit and vegetable prices higher and a steeper year-on-year increase in energy costs will all contribute.Even if inflation remains short of the European Central Bank's target of almost 2 percent, its policymakers are now debating whether to end lavish bond buys later this year. The purchase programme currently runs until the end of September.U.S. monthly non-farm payrolls round off the week on Friday. The economy is seen adding far fewer jobs than the 313,000 of February, but the average Reuters forecast for March of 203,000 is still strong and the unemployment rate is set to fall to 4.0 percent, a level not seen since 2000."We see further declines of the rate below the level the Fed thinks is the natural rate of unemployment. Over time, you would expect it would exert upward pressure on wages, which admittedly we have not really seen," Commerzbank's Bernd Weidensteiner."It should happen during the course of this year. Otherwise, we really need to rethink our picture of the workings of the U.S. labour market."(Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; Editing by Hugh Lawson)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 2:38 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, his ratings battered by a scandal over suspected cronyism, is hoping a series of summits including one with U.S. President Donald Trump will restore his popularity ahead of a crucial ruling party leadership contest.Abe is expected to meet Trump around April 18 in Washington to discuss Trump's planned meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and then meet Russian President Vladimir Putin in late May. Tokyo has also not ruled out a meeting with Kim Jong Un."Mr Abe is the most pro-active on foreign policy among Japanese prime ministers and wants to use that," a ruling coalition lawmaker told Reuters."Especially ahead of the September Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) presidential election, he wants to appeal to voters through his meetings with Trump and Putin."AdvertisementAbe's ratings have fallen sharply due to the scandal over the sale of state-owned land to school operator Moritomo Gakuen, to which Abe's wife had ties, and after a finance ministry admission that documents about the deal were altered.AdvertisementThe slide in his ratings has clouded his prospects of winning a third, three-year term as LDP president, victory in which would set him on track to become Japan's longest-serving premier, a position he's held since 2012.The LDP leader is virtually assured of being prime minister since an LDP-led coalition holds a majority in parliament.Abe is hoping his diplomatic performance will distract voters from the domestic scandal."He's trying to change the conversation and the chances are it will work," said Gerry Curtis, an emeritus professor at New York's Columbia University."On Monday, the betting was Abe would probably announce that he isn't running for a third term. Today, the betting is he will get a third term," he said.But much depended on opinion polls and whether new allegations of misconduct emerged, Curtis added.'NO RISK, NO RETURN'In addition, success at summits is by no means guaranteed."Of course, there are risks," the coalition lawmaker said. "Politics is a world of 'no risk, no return'."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump has blindsided Tokyo twice in recent weeks, first by announcing that he would meet Kim Jong Un and then by declining to exclude ally Japan from tariffs on steel and aluminum.Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Kono told Reuters on Tuesday that the two allies were "completely in sync" on North Korea  but concerns persist that Trump may do a deal that protects U.S. interests but leaves Japan vulnerable.AdvertisementOn the trade front, Tokyo is pressing Washington to exempt Japan's steel products from the levies and pushing back against demands for a two-way free trade agreement, a stance the government repeated forcefully on Thursday.Abe may have little concrete to offer Trump on trade other than restating plans, already in the works, to boost defense spending and buy U.S. military equipment.The Japanese leader may also find it tough to get concessions from Putin in a decades-old row over islands seized by Soviet forces at the end of World War Two. The dispute has kept Moscow and Tokyo from signing a peace treaty."Putin is just playing the game," a former senior Japanese diplomat said, while adding that even a small breakthrough in the dispute would be a "great success" for Abe.Any meeting between Abe and Kim Jong Un would be tricky, and forecasts that one will happen are premature, another ruling party lawmaker said.To gain kudos, Abe needs progress on the emotive issue of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea decades ago, but North Korea would likely want economic aid in return.Japan's stance, however, has been that aid can only be resumed if the two countries normalize diplomatic relations, which depends on the North abandoning its nuclear and missile programs as well as resolving the abductee issue.(Additional reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Robert Birsel)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:48 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  An enigmatic North Korean leader takes a secretive train trip to China to affirm fraternal ties and declare a commitment to denuclearization.It sounds like Kim Jong Un's visit this week, but his father and predecessor Kim Jong Il made similar declarations on a trip to Beijing, months before he died in 2011. Yet North Korea's nuclear weapons development only speeded up.President Donald Trump expressed optimism Wednesday after the younger Kim's meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, saying there's "a good chance" that Kim will "do what is right for his people and for humanity." But there are plenty of reasons to be skeptical that the U.S.-North Korean summit slated for May will produce the breakthrough that Washington wants.After a year of escalating tensions, Trump agreed to talks after South Korean officials relayed that Kim was committed to ridding the Korean Peninsula of nuclear weapons and was willing to halt nuclear and missile tests.AdvertisementThat has tamped down fears of war that elevated as Trump and Kim traded threats and insults and North Korea demonstrated it was close to being able to strike the U.S. with a nuclear-tipped missile.AdvertisementKim's meeting with Xi offered some reassurance to Washington that denuclearization will be up for negotiation if the first summit between American and North Korean leaders in seven decades takes place.But while Trump has elevated expectations of what that sit-down would achieve, North Korea has yet to spell out what it wants in return for abandoning a weapons program that Kim likely views as a guarantee for the survival of his totalitarian regime.The readout of Kim's remarks to Xi as reported by China's state news agency Xinhua strongly indicates Pyongyang is looking for significant American concessions."The issue of denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula can be resolved," Kim was quoted as saying, "if South Korea and the United States respond to our efforts with goodwill, create an atmosphere of peace and stability while taking progressive and synchronous measures for the realization of peace."To many North Korea watchers, that sounds like old wine in a new bottle.In May 2011, the elder Kim, who was making what would be his final trip to China, told then-president Hu Jintao that the North was "adhering to the goal of denuclearization."That came months after North Korea had revealed a uranium enrichment plant that gave it a second path for making fuel for atomic bombs.Abraham Denmark, a former senior U.S. defense official, said the North's latest offer to "denuclearize" still appears contingent on U.S. creating the right conditions. In the past, Pyongyang demanded that U.S. withdraw troops from the peninsula and end its security alliance with South Korea and the nuclear protection it offers its ally.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."It's possible that Kim Jong Un has a different meaning in mind," said Denmark, now director of the Asia program at the Wilson Center think tank. "So far it sounds like the same old tune."AdvertisementEnding six years of international seclusion, Kim was spirited into Beijing by special train under tight security like his father before him. He met with Xi, seeking to repair relations that have been frayed as China has supported tough U.N. sanctions and slashed trade with its wayward ally in frustration over its refusal to stop its provocative behavior.State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Kim's first foreign trip was a "historic step in the right direction" and proof that a U.S.-led campaign of "maximum pressure" of economic sanctions was working. Trump said the pressure would be maintained for now but offered an optimistic view of how he could achieve peace and denuclearization that eluded past administrations."Now there is a good chance that Kim Jong Un will do what is right for his people and for humanity. Look forward to our meeting!"There's another way of looking at it.It could be North Korea, not the U.S., that is calling the shots. When Kim offered an olive branch to South Korea in the new year, he also warned that the entire U.S. was within range of the North's atomic weapons. With that capability in hand, he may now be going on a diplomatic offensive, using it as leverage to win aid and security guarantees rather than intending to give it up.Trump's pick for national security adviser, John Bolton, is famously skeptical of diplomacy with North Korea. Just a month ago, he made the case for a pre-emptive military strike on the North. That raises questions about whether he might advocate for the same should Trump's summit with Kim fail.Experts at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank said in an analysis that by meeting Xi, Kim may be seeking an insurance policy that "even if summit talks fail with the U.S. that North Korea could still fall back on its relationship with China."Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a close ally of the president, is worried about a less-than-ideal outcome.He said Wednesday that he's concerned that in his talks with Kim, Trump will focus on the intercontinental missiles that can reach the U.S. mainland and not the shorter-range missiles that threaten Japan and may "end up accepting North Korea's possession of nuclear weapons."___Associated Press writer Alan Fram contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31, 2018, 4:36 A.M. E.D.T.
DETROIT —  The Trump administration is expected to announce that it will roll back automobile gas mileage and pollution standards.Automakers wanted the government to relax the current standards, which were imposed by the Obama administration to combat climate change. They say the rules will cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices.But environmentalists say the right technology is available to increase a car's gas mileage and building it into the car saves money at the pump.Any change is likely to set up a lengthy legal showdown with California, which currently has the power to set its own pollution and gas mileage standards and doesn't want them to change.EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said in an email Friday that the standards are still being reviewed.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 4, 2018, 8:34 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The United States plans to sanction Russian oligarchs this week under a law targeting Moscow for meddling in the 2016 U.S. election, sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, in what could be the most aggressive move so far against Russia's business elite.The action, which could affect people close to President Vladimir Putin, reflects Washington's desire to hold Russia to account for allegedly interfering in the election - which Moscow denies - even as U.S. President Donald Trump holds out hope for good relations with Putin.Trump has faced fierce criticism for doing too little to punish Russia for the election meddling and other actions, and Special Counsel Robert Mueller is probing whether his campaign colluded with the Russians, an allegation the president denies.The sanctions, which two sources said would be announced as early as Thursday, would follow the March 15 U.S. decision to sanction 19 people and five entities, including Russian intelligence services, for cyber attacks stretching back at least two years.AdvertisementWhile the steps were the most significant taken against Moscow since Trump took office in January 2017, his decision at the time not to target oligarchs and government officials close to Putin drew criticism from U.S. lawmakers in both parties.AdvertisementThis week's actions will include sanctions against Russian oligarchs, including some with ties to Putin as well as to the Russian government, according to two U.S. officials briefed on the deliberations.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Four sources said the sanctions would be imposed under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, also known as CAATSA, which was passed by Republicans and Democrats seeking to punish Russia for its 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine, involvement in the Syrian civil war and meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.U.S.-Russian ties have worsened with allegations, which Moscow denies, that Russia was responsible for a March 4 nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain. On March 26, the United States and several European states announced plans to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats in response.The White House and Treasury declined comment on whether they planned to impose sanctions this week. When asked about the issue, a senior U.S. official said:"The administration is committed to implementing the CAATSA law as we have said many times. We published an oligarch designation recently and the secretary of the Treasury said further action would be taken. But at this time we don’t have anything specific to announce."Complying with the law, the Trump administration on Jan. 30 published a list of the heads of Russian state-owned companies and "oligarchs," including such prominent figures as Alexei Miller, the chief executive of Gazprom, and Igor Sechin, the chief executive of Rosneft.(Additional reporting by Steve Holland, Arshad Mohammed, Lesley Wroughton, Patricia Zengerle and Phil Stewart; Writing By Arshad Mohammed; Editing by Mary Milliken, Alistair Bell and Peter Cooney)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By DAVE ITZKOFFMARCH 18, 2018
As you would expect for an episode of “Saturday Night Live” hosted by Bill Hader, the former “S.N.L.” cast member, this one had everything: new installments of long-running sketches like “The Californians”; cameos from Fred Armisen and John Goodman; and an appearance by Hader’s eccentric night-life correspondent, Stefon, who helpfully explained what Farrah-chauns are. (Those are leprechauns that look like Farrah Fawcett, obviously.)This week’s broadcast (which featured the musical guest Arcade Fire) didn’t have a lot of topical sketches, but the opening skit addressed what has felt like round-the-clock firings in the Trump administration.Playing the CNN host Anderson Cooper, the cast member Alex Moffat asked Attorney General Jeff Sessions, as played by Kate McKinnon, to explain the sudden dismissal on Friday of the F.B.I. deputy director Andrew G. McCabe.A somewhat giddy McKinnon answered: “Well, yes, of course. Mr. McCabe was in clear violation, uh, because of his lack of candor — I don’t know, I can’t even dance around. Trump made me do it. McCabe, he saw too much.”AdvertisementShe added: “Look, I’m always down to clown but this was sneaky, even for me. I’m just a simple man who wanted to make things bad for immigrants. And now, here I am, taking away the pension of a Christian white. It ain’t right.”AdvertisementMoffat next turned to Rex W. Tillerson, the departing secretary of state, played by Goodman, who tried to remain sanguine about his firing. “It just wasn’t a good fit,” Goodman said. “But these things happen.”Asked if he had been fired by a tweet, Goodman denied it. “John Kelly called me personally,” Goodman explained. “He said, ‘Where are you?’ I said, ‘Sir, that’s private.’ He said, ‘Oh, good, are you on the toilet? Because I got some news.’”Growing more agitated, Goodman said: “It’s just crazy how one day you’re the C.E.O. of Exxon, a $50 billion company. And the next day, you get fired by a man who used to sell steaks in the mail.” So saying, the drinking glass Goodman had been gripping tensely exploded in his bare hand.For further analysis, Moffat brought out Armisen, who played the “Fire and Fury” author Michael Wolff, and Hader, who played the short-lived White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci — “the fidget spinner of the Trump White House,” as he described himself. (Hader explained, “I made a big splash, then one day everybody was like, ‘Whoa, what the hell was that about?’”)Asked who would take over from McCabe, Armisen replied: “Well, my sources tell me the job is down to two candidates. Milwaukee Sheriff David Clarke or the president’s favorite TV detective, Monk.”In their opening remarks, the “Weekend Update” anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che also joked about the continuing exodus at the White House. “This week, the national unemployment rate held steady at 4 percent,” Jost began as a line graph displayed beside him, “while the White House unemployment rate rose to all of them.” Suddenly, the line graph changed into a who’s who image of departed White House staffers.Jost continued:The crazy thing is, I’m starting to feel sorry for all these people Trump is firing, even though I thought they were terrible at their jobs. I mean, six months ago, could you have imagined thinking, “Hang in there, Jeff Sessions”? The latest victim was former F.B.I. deputy director Andrew McCabe, who was fired two days before he was set to retire on his 50th birthday so he couldn’t collect his full pension. Damn, man, that’s cold. Even the Joker’s like, “You don’t treat people like that.” I love that Trump is being extra mean to the F.B.I. guy who’s definitely about to testify against him. It’s like walking in and announcing to a whole restaurant that you’re not tipping anyone before they make your food.Che continued on this theme, saying:President Trump fired Secretary of State Tillerson and replaced him with C.I.A. director Mike Pompeo. Tillerson will return to his previous job as the eagle from the Muppets. Insiders are saying that more major staff shake-ups could be coming to the White House. Trump is firing people like he’s trying to get us under the salary cap or something. It’s a little too late. It’s like when those Domino’s commercials say, “At Domino’s, we’re making some changes,” and you’re like, “Yeah, but you’re still Domino’s.”Adding to her “S.N.L.” repertoire, McKinnon played Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, in damage-control mode after a poorly received interview on the CBS newsmagazine “60 Minutes” in which DeVos said, among other things, that the decision to arm teachers should be left to states. Asked by Jost why she had fared so badly in the interview, McKinnon replied: “Well, I think the problem is that the words that were coming out of my mouth were bad. And that is because they came from my brain.”AdvertisementAnalyzing the merits of public schools and charter schools, McKinnon said: “I don’t like to think of things in terms of school. It should be up to the states. In Wyoming, for example, which has many potential grizzlies, there should be a school for bears. And in Louisiana, crocodile crossing guards. And in North Carolina, stop being trans, and that’s what’s best for them.”As for the school shooting issue, she added, “We are working hard to ensure that all schools are safe learning environments for guns.”Playing a fictional Toronto film producer named Thomas Logan, described as “the Canadian Harvey Weinstein,” Hader confessed in a mock interview to misdeeds that were not nearly as offensive as those committed by his American counterpart.“I’m here to say it’s all true,” Hader said. “I definitely abused my power.” He added: “I had this assistant and I was real inappropriate, saying stuff like, ‘You look nice today’ or ‘What kind of sunglasses are those?’ You know, really pestering her. So she got ticked and well, I just went ahead and resigned.”“As soon as I realized, I said I was sorry,” Hader said. “I go to H.R. and I say, ‘Sorry, I gotta say, but I really put my boot in it this time.’ And the H.R. lady says, ‘No, I’m sorry, I should have seen this coming.’ So I resign and then she resigns.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Although commentators on both the left and the right urged the media not to make jokes about the news that Vanessa Trump had filed for divorce from her husband, Donald Trump Jr., “Saturday Night Live” did not receive or heed the memo.During “Weekend Update,” Che said, “This Wednesday was National Walkout Day,” glancing at an onscreen graphic that depicted nationwide protests last week in which thousands of schoolchildren left class in support of gun law reform.“Sorry, that’s the wrong picture,” Che said, and the graphic was changed to a picture of Vanessa Trump and Donald Trump Jr. “There it is.”As the audience seemed to recoil at the joke, Che smirked, saying, “You know what we do here, right?”Social media, you can take it from here.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBEIJING — U.S. policy toward China has been misdirected for decades and policymakers are now recalibrating ties, Senator Elizabeth Warren told reporters during a visit to Beijing amid heightened trade tensions between the world's two largest economies.Warren's visit comes as U.S. President Donald Trump prepares to implement more than $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods meant to punish China over U.S. allegations that Beijing systematically misappropriated American intellectual property. The Massachusetts Democrat and Trump foe, who has been touted as a potential 2020 presidential candidate despite rejecting such speculation, has said U.S. trade policy needs a rethink and that she is not afraid of tariffs. After years of mistakenly assuming economic engagement would lead to a more open China, the U.S. government was waking up to Chinese demands for U.S. companies to give up their know-how in exchange for access to its market, Warren said."The whole policy was misdirected. We told ourselves a happy-face story that never fit with the facts," Warren told reporters on Saturday, during a three-day visit to China that began on Friday."Now U.S. policymakers are starting to look more aggressively at pushing China to open up the markets without demanding a hostage price of access to U.S. technology," she said.Warren discussed trade issues and North Korea with senior Chinese officials, including Liu He, the vice premier for economic policy, Yang Jiechi, a top diplomat, and the Minister of Defence Wei Fenghe.She said she told officials she met that Americans cannot support a more integrated economic system with China if it "fails to respect basic human rights".China's ruling Communist Party has tightened controls on society since President Xi Jinping assumed power, from online censorship to a crackdown on activists and non-governmental organizations, though Chinese officials routinely deny accusations of rights abuses.Warren also made stops in Japan and South Korea, and she said that U.S. allies in Asia were having trouble understanding Trump's "chaotic" foreign policy.North Korea's Kim Jong Un and Trump had earlier exchanged insults and veiled threats of war over North Korea's tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement last month that he was prepared to meet Kim. Warren said success for that meeting would mean getting a commitment to discuss verifiable steps to reduce North Korea's nuclear threat, which would require careful negotiations from a State Department whose role has been vastly diminished under Trump, with several high-profile posts unoccupied.Trump's efforts to "take the legs out from underneath our diplomatic corps" are a "terrible mistake", she said. (Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Christian Schmollinger)AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 4:06 P.M. E.D.T.
BALTIMORE —  A federal grand jury in Maryland has indicted six alleged members of a violent street gang that's been a prime Trump administration target.Six defendants — ranging in age from 19 to 22 — were charged in a nine-count indictment unsealed this week. The alleged members of MS-13, a gang with deep Central American ties, are charged with murder, conspiracy and racketeering.The men, all living in Annapolis, were detained on federal or state criminal charges and their initial court appearances have not yet taken place, according to prosecutors. Their immigration status was not immediately clear.The latest indictments come roughly two weeks after a MS-13 member from another Maryland community was convicted in a federal racketeering conspiracy. Raul Ernesto Landaverde Giron of Silver Spring, just outside of Washington D.C., was found guilty of murder in aid of racketeering and faces a mandatory sentence of life in prison.AdvertisementFollowing that conviction, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Maryland has "suffered terribly" because of the "uniquely barbaric" gang's criminal activities.AdvertisementIn charges announced Thursday, Juan Carlos Sandoval Rodriguez, 20, is accused of luring a victim to a park in Annapolis, where he and other alleged MS-13 members and associates murdered him. Prosecutors believe the March 2016 killing was motivated by a desire to enhance or maintain rank within the gang or gain status as a member.In October 2016, four defendants allegedly attempted to murder two others in Annapolis, largely by stabbing the victims repeatedly.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last year, Sessions designated MS-13 as a "priority" for the Department of Justice's Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force. That designation directs prosecutors to pursue all legal avenues to target the gang and lets local police agencies tap into federal money to help pay for gang-related investigations.MS-13, or the Mara Salvatrucha, is believed by federal prosecutors to have thousands of members nationwide, primarily immigrants from Central America. It emerged in the 1980s from a stronghold in Los Angeles. But its true rise began after members were deported back to El Salvador in the 1990s.President Donald Trump blames lax U.S. immigration laws for allowing deported members to return to the U.S.Federal authorities say the danger posed by the decades-old street gang has been increasing. During a December stop in Baltimore, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen described MS-13 as a "threat to our homeland security."Some experts who study gangs believe the overall menace posed by MS-13 has been exaggerated amid the Trump administration's broader immigration crackdown.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:36 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  U.S. President Donald Trump's tariffs on Chinese goods may not be imposed until early June, administration officials said on Wednesday, with public consultations and potential tariff revisions buying time for negotiations to forestall them.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said he anticipates about 60 days worth of public comment on a soon-to-be published tariff list, but added that it would take years to bring the U.S.-China trading relationship "to a good place."Speaking on CNBC television, Lighthizer said the list totalling more than $50 billion (£35.6 billion) would include "largely high-technology things" chosen by a computer algorithm to maximize pain on Chinese exporters while minimizing pain on U.S. consumers.The tariffs are meant to punish China over U.S. allegations that Beijing systematically misappropriated American  intellectual property and to prompt changes in various Chinese government policies aimed at forcing technology transfers.Advertisement"We'll announce them before very long and then we'll go through a 60-day period where we'll give the public a chance to comment on the good and the bad things in there," Lighthizer said of the tariffs.AdvertisementPreviously, the USTR had identified a 30-day period for written public comments on the tariff list, which must be published by April 6 under the proclamation that Trump signed last week.A Trump administration official said that an estimated second 30-day period would provide time for a public hearing on the tariff list and for the filing and review of post-hearing briefs to rebut testimony.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The 60 days refers to the time frame anticipated for public response. A determination on a final list and an effective date would be made thereafter," the official said, adding that the full process could take longer than 60 days.Asked on CNBC whether negotiations with Beijing could avoid tariffs, Lighthizer said: "I think there is hope."He said the two countries had different economic systems and there would be "a certain amount of tension between the two."The trade ambassador made no mention of discussions between senior Trump cabinet officials, including Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, and their Chinese counterparts to discuss potential solutions to avoid tariffs.A person familiar with the discussions told Reuters that the list of U.S. demands included a reduction in China's 25 percent tariff on autos and greater access for U.S. firms to China's financial sector.(Reporting by David Lawder; editing by Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:18 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Thursday he won't immediately appoint a new special counsel to investigate a number of Republican grievances involving the FBI and Justice Department, despite mounting pressure from members of his own party.Sessions, in a letter to three Republican committee leaders, reiterated that he had directed a senior federal prosecutor, Utah's U.S. attorney John W. Huber, to evaluate "certain issues," including whether such an appointment is necessary. Huber's review is ongoing, and Sessions said he gets regular updates.The letter is likely to unnerve Republican lawmakers, who have called for multiple special counsels to study allegations of misconduct in some of the FBI's highest profile, most politically charged investigations. Most recently, they've demanded a special counsel to take a broad look at whether Justice Department or FBI employees were biased during their now-closed probe of Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server, and as they began investigating Trump campaign ties to Russian meddling in the 2016 election.In a statement released Thursday night, House Judiciary Chairman Robert Goodlatte and House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Trey Gowdy said they were "encouraged" that Huber was tapped to investigate the issues.Advertisement"While we continue to believe the appointment of a second special counsel is necessary, this is a step in the right direction," they said.AdvertisementDemocrats say the allegations are an effort to distract from and undermine the separate work of special counsel Robert Mueller as his team's Russia investigation intensifies.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sessions' letter comes a day after the Justice Department's inspector general announced that, at Sessions' urging, it would review whether law enforcement officials abused their surveillance powers in seeking permission to monitor the communications of former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page.Sessions' referral of the allegations to the inspector general enraged President Donald Trump, who said Sessions should have ordered is own investigation. But in his letter to lawmakers, Sessions reminded that the inspector general's office can and often does refer matters for prosecution.And he said the Justice Department has proven capable of handling "high-profile, resource-intensive matters" without the rare appointment of a special counsel.Huber, an Obama administration holdover re-nominated to serve as Utah's top federal prosecutor, will conduct a "full, complete and objective evaluation" of Republican concerns and submit recommendations, Sessions said.__Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick in Washington and Lindsay Whitehurst in Salt Lake City contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Best of Late Night By                     
 GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
 
MARCH 29, 2018
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Dana Carvey impersonated John R. Bolton, President Trump’s incoming national security adviser, in an interview with Stephen Colbert on “The Late Show” Wednesday night. It was a bit reminiscent of Carvey’s famous impression of the first  President George  Bush — but a few notches more ludicrous.Colbert asked “Bolton,” who is known for his far-right views and is said to act abusively toward co-workers, for reassurance that he was not gunning for pre-emptive war with North Korea or Iran. The interview began with Carvey’s character pleading innocence, but it didn’t take long to fly off the rails.By the end, his face was covered in an overgrown mustache, and he was attempting to breast-feed a golden retriever puppy.Here’s how it started.STEPHEN COLBERT: Ambassador Bolton, thank you for joining us.DANA CARVEY: Oh, my pleasure, Stephen. It’s very important to me that nobody thinks President Trump is handing the keys to the war machine to some sort of hair-trigger lunatic.COLBERT: Well, that is very reassuring, sir.CARVEY: Because if I heard someone say that, I’d blow them up quick.Midway through the interview, Colbert noticed something suspicious going on with his interviewee’s facial hair.COLBERT: I feel like I do have to ask: Is your mustache getting larger?CARVEY: Oh yeah, don’t worry about that — General Snowball here just gets a bit engorged when he smells a war coming on. You want action, don’t you boy? [pets mustache] Easy, fellow. Here, have some shampoo. [pulls out bottle]AdvertisementSamantha Bee flew to Puerto Rico to tape Wednesday’s hourlong special episode of “Full Frontal.” She traveled around the island, taking a look at the efforts to restore power in cities and towns and the mountainous villages that were hardest hit by Hurricane Maria.AdvertisementThe segment concludes with a solar panel installed on the roof of a rural barber’s shop, restoring power to it and bringing him one step closer to business as usual.“This morning, Facebook announced major changes to its privacy settings. Yeah, apparently they’re going to start having some.” — CONAN O’BRIEN“President Trump has fired his secretary of veterans affairs, and he’s replaced him with the official White House doctor — the man who gave Trump his presidential physical. Which sort of makes sense. I guess Trump was probably like, ‘Anyone who’s seen me naked deserves a reward.’” — TREVOR NOAHWho’s the most “cool, calm and collected” — Zach Woods, Shawn Mendes or Hilary Swank?Tiffany Haddish said in a recent GQ interview that she was at a party when someone bit Beyoncé in the face. Trevor Noah really wants to know who it was.Sean Penn, who recently released his debut novel (to less-than-glowing reviews) and gave a freewheeling interview on “The Late Show” this week, will sit down with Conan O’Brien on Thursday.The National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis has a lot to teach us about our history — and about today — writes our co-chief art critic, Holland Cotter.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 6:39 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Attorneys for former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort are arguing that the special counsel leading the Russia investigation is hiding what led agents to search a storage unit in connection with Manafort's ongoing criminal case.A new court filing reveals that special counsel Robert Mueller's prosecutors redacted a page and a half of information related to the search in documents they produced to Manafort.Manafort attorneys Kevin Downing and Thomas Zehnle say the move is blocking their ability to determine whether the search was proper.They are asking a judge to force the special counsel to turn over complete copies of all search warrants. The filing does not disclose the storage unit's contents.Manafort faces numerous charges alleging financial crimes and that he acted as an unregistered foreign agent.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 6:50 A.M. E.D.T.
BRUSSELS/PARIS —  France, Britain and Germany are struggling to persuade their EU partners to back new sanctions on Iran to preserve its nuclear deal, diplomats said, with Italy doubting whether the measures can stop the United States pulling out in May.At a closed-door meeting of EU ambassadors in Brussels on Wednesday, London, Paris and Berlin sought EU support for formal approval of the new sanctions in April, after proposing them in mid-March, according to a document seen by Reuters.But Italy, with support from Spain and Austria, resisted plans to impose travel bans and asset freezes on around 15 Iranians, companies and groups, linked to Iran's ballistic missile program and role in Syria's war.Rome said they would not be enough to persuade U.S. President Donald Trump not to withdraw from the nuclear deal and would endanger burgeoning business ties with Iran. Spain was also wary of the knock-on effects.AdvertisementUnder EU rules, economic sanctions need unanimous support."Italy said dialogue was the preferred option and that sanctions could weaken our position while not convincing the United States," the diplomat said. "Spain asked the three to consider the implications of such a move."AdvertisementTrump has given the European signatories a May 12 deadline to "fix the terrible flaws" of the 2015 nuclear accord, agreed under his predecessor Barack Obama, or he will refuse to extend a suspension of U.S. sanctions on Iran.Trump's choices in recent weeks of two officials publicly opposed to the Iran accord, John Bolton as national security adviser, and Mike Pompeo as secretary of state, has dramatically raised the probability of a U.S. pullout, the diplomats said.Rome and Tehran in January signed a framework credit agreement to fund investments worth up to 5 billion euros ($6 billion) in Iran.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."COMMANDO APPROACH"In Brussels, other countries including Sweden were upset that the three European powers were trying to push things through the EU's diplomatic approval process so quickly."There was a commando approach, but it failed," a second EU diplomat said."The difference here is that everyone thinks Trump will pull out (of the Iran deal) and so some consider this pointless."The three countries are in talks with the U.S. administration to see what could encourage Trump to issue new waivers on U.S. sanctions.The 2015 pact between Iran and six major powers - Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States - lifted sanctions that had crippled Iran's oil-based economy, in return for restrictions on its nuclear activities.The new measures proposed by London, Paris and Berlin could target members of Iran's most powerful security force, the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC), as well as commanders of the Iran-backed Shi'ite group Hezbollah.Discussions are expected to continue in early April but at a lower level than ambassadors, to try for a compromise at EU foreign ministers' meeting in Luxembourg on April 16, the last formal gathering on the EU agenda before Trump's May deadline.AdvertisementIran insists its nuclear work has been non-military and missile program purely defensive.(Editing by Andrew Roche)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By STEVEN LEE MYERS and JANE PERLEZMARCH 27, 2018
The state news media in China and North Korea confirmed that Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, was in the mysterious train that pulled into Beijing on Monday. It was his first official visit abroad since he took office.BEIJING — North Korea’s enigmatic young leader, Kim Jong-un, made an unannounced visit to Beijing, meeting with President Xi Jinping weeks before planned summit meetings with American and South Korean leaders, Chinese and North Korean state news media reported on Wednesday.The visit amounted to Mr. Kim’s international debut: It was the 34-year-old leader’s first trip outside North Korea since he took power in 2011, and his first meeting with another head of state. The surprise discussions added another layer of complexity to the rush of global diplomacy around North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.Mr. Kim told the Chinese leader that he was open to dialogue with the United States, including a potential summit meeting with President Trump, and was committed to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, according to an account published by China’s news agency Xinhua.“If South Korea and the United States respond with good will to our efforts and create an atmosphere of peace and stability, and take phased, synchronized measures to achieve peace, the issue of the denuclearization of the peninsula can reach resolution,” Mr. Kim said, according to Xinhua’s summary of his meeting with Mr. Xi.AdvertisementHours after the meeting was announced, Mr. Trump said on Twitter that he looked forward to meeting Mr. Kim, and that there was “a good chance” that the North Korean leader would “do what is right for his people and for humanity.”
            For years and through many administrations, everyone said that peace and the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula was not even a small possibility. Now there is a good chance that Kim Jong Un will do what is right for his people and for humanity. Look forward to our meeting!        Mr. Kim’s trip unfolded in extraordinary secrecy and security; it was confirmed only after he left Beijing on the same armored train that stirred speculation when it arrived mysteriously in the Chinese capital on Monday. (Both Mr. Kim’s father and grandfather, the North’s former leaders, used similar trains for foreign trips.)Mr. Kim made the trip at the invitation of Mr. Xi, North Korea’s state-run Korean Central Television reported soon after the announcement in China. Mr. Kim was accompanied by his wife, Ri Sol-ju, as well as by his senior advisers, it said.AdvertisementThe visit suggested that Mr. Kim values or needs China’s approval — and possibly its advice — as he seeks to capitalize on a risky diplomatic opening with Mr. Trump after more than a year of tension and threats.Mr. Xi, for his part, said that China supported efforts to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula and he praised Mr. Kim for the recent improvement there.“This year there have been promising changes in the situation on the Korean Peninsula, and we express our appreciation for the major efforts that North Korea has made in this regard,” Mr. Xi said, according to Xinhua.The tone was a significant shift. Over the past six years, relations between the two leaders have been widely reported as chilly. Mr. Kim rebuffed overtures from China, and purged officials who had previously served as the main channels to Beijing, including his uncle, who was executed.At a banquet this week, though, Mr. Kim praised North Korea’s friendship with China, saying he wanted to “continue the traditional” ties, Xinhua said.AdvertisementChina described the trip as an unofficial visit, though it published photographs of the youthful leader with Mr. Xi and the two leaders’ wives, and of their tour of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.In Washington, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, told reporters that the Chinese government had contacted administration officials on Tuesday to brief them about Mr. Kim’s visit. The briefing included a personal message from the Chinese leader to Mr. Trump.Mr. Trump said on Twitter early Wednesday that Mr. Xi had told him the visit “went very well,” and that Mr. Kim looked forward to his meeting with Mr. Trump. “In the meantime, and unfortunately, maximum sanctions and pressure must be maintained at all cost!” Mr. Trump said.Yang Xiyu, one of China’s leading experts on North Korea, said that Mr. Kim was clearly trying to repair the North’s deeply strained relations with Beijing, its traditional ally and benefactor, while opening new ties with its enemy South Korea.Even so, Mr. Yang said, that did not signal that Mr. Kim was willing to give up his nuclear arsenal, though he has told South Korean envoys that he was prepared to discuss the possibility.“He is starting a new game where he could make concessions on denuclearization,” Mr. Yang said. “At most, he will cut the grass, but he will not pull out the roots.”The Trump administration has made it clear that it will not tolerate a nuclear-armed North Korea able to launch ballistic missiles that could strike the United States. Those in Washington who favor a forceful approach with the North were bolstered last week by the appointment of John R. Bolton as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser; only a month ago, Mr. Bolton warned that a pre-emptive strike on North Korea’s arsenal would be a “perfectly legitimate” response to a threat to the American mainland.After months of increasing political and economic pressure, North Korea’s once-defiant tone has shifted dramatically since January, for which some have credited Mr. Trump’s threats of military action.Last month, the North sent a delegation to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, led by Mr. Kim’s sister, Kim Yo-jong, and the North’s nominal head of state, Kim Yong-nam. They put on a charm offensive that led to direct talks with the South Koreans, plans for a meeting between Mr. Kim and the South’s president, Moon Jae-in, and then an extraordinary offer to meet directly with Mr. Trump.AdvertisementThe meeting with Mr. Moon is set to take place next month on the Koreas’ border, while Mr. Trump is to hold his own talks with Mr. Kim by May, though the exact timing and location are still to be determined.Now, with no prior fanfare, Mr. Xi has become the first major foreign leader to meet Mr. Kim.Their meeting may help ease tensions between China and the North after years of deepening rancor. China supports the international efforts to rein in the North’s nuclear weapons development, but experts say it also wants to keep the North as a stable buffer on its northeast border.Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing, said that despite the recent strains in the relationship, it was not surprising that the North Koreans would turn to China at this moment — one that would be pivotal for any leader, let alone one as untested as Mr. Kim.“Kim Jong-un is now in a most difficult economic situation, and he faces a gamble to meet Trump,” Mr. Shi said.
                As President Trump plans to meet Kim Jong-un, satellite evidence suggests that North Korea is expanding the complex that makes fuel for its nuclear weapons.            Since Mr. Kim took power after his father’s death more than six years ago, Chinese officials and experts have become increasingly disdainful of him for ignoring Beijing’s entreaties to halt his nuclear weapons and ballistic missile tests.While China has never entirely turned its back on North Korea, it has grown increasingly alarmed by the nuclear tests, which have brought threats of dire punishment from Mr. Trump. Under that pressure, Beijing has backed increasingly stringent United Nations sanctions that have reduced the North’s exports of coal, seafood and other goods to China.Mr. Kim’s Beijing visit underscored the historic bonds between the two countries, forged in shared experiences of war and Communist revolution.Advertisement“At a time when the situation on the Korean Peninsula is undergoing huge unprecedented changes,” Mr. Kim said, according to Xinhua’s account, “I have made this quick visit to China with the fine hopes of advancing peace and stability on the peninsula and continuing and developing Korean-Chinese friendship.”China backed North Korean forces in the Korean War of 1950-53, during which hundreds of thousands of Chinese soldiers died. Mr. Kim may be following an example set by his father, Kim Jong-il, in appealing to those ties after a period of tension.The elder Mr. Kim’s first visit to China — in 2000 — also came roughly six years after he took power, and shortly before a planned summit meeting with South Korea. Before then, China and North Korea had gone through years of strain after Beijing established diplomatic relations with Seoul in 1992.There were other similarities between the two visits, including Kim Jong-un’s furtive, unannounced arrival aboard an armored train, which was first spotted at North Korea’s border with China near the city of Dandong.During his 2000 visit, Kim Jong-il toured Chinese special economic zones, as Chinese leaders sought to show him the merits of opening markets. But the current North Korean leader apparently made no such side trips outside of Beijing.Neither China nor North Korea acknowledged the visit while Mr. Kim was in the capital, underscoring the ability of both governments to tightly control the narrative of their diplomacy.The only evidence of Mr. Kim’s presence on Monday and Tuesday was heightened security around the North Korean Embassy and the government guesthouse where the delegation stayed, as well as the comings and goings of large motorcades of black sedans and sport utility vehicles with police escorts.The last of those carried Mr. Kim’s delegation back to Beijing’s central train station on Tuesday afternoon. Even then, a spokeswoman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hua Chunying, deflected a question about it at a daily briefing. The official confirmation came only after Mr. Kim was back in North Korea early on Wednesday morning.Choe Sang-Hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea, Chris Buckley and Keith Bradsher from Beijing and Eileen Sullivan from Washington. Owen Guo and Olivia Mitchell Ryan contributed research.A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2018, on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: North Korea’s Kim Met Xi During Secret Visit to Beijing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 5:18 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Five big U.S. airlines might add flights to Havana after some carriers dropped service to Cuba's capital.The Transportation Department proposed Friday that routes go to American, Delta, United, Southwest and JetBlue.  There could be 20 daily flights between the U.S. and Havana.The routes opened after Alaska Airlines, Spirit, Frontier and Delta dropped service because of weak demand. Traffic could suffer from the Trump administration's move to limit tourism. Americans must have one of 12 reasons to visit Cuba, including visiting relatives.American and Delta would each add one daily flight from Miami; Southwest would add one flight daily from Fort Lauderdale, Florida; United would fly six times a week from Houston; and JetBlue would fly six times a week more from Fort Lauderdale, once a week from Boston.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.MARCH 28, 2018
FRONT PAGEAn article on Wednesday about the Trump administration’s efforts to add a question on citizenship to the 2020 census referred incorrectly to the American Community Survey. It is a mandatory poll; it is not voluntary.SCIENCEAn article on Tuesday referred incorrectly to services provided by the gay dating app Hornet. The app has offered H.I.V.-testing reminders to its users since 2012; it is not the case that it has yet to offer such a service.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.A version of this correction appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 5:48 P.M. E.D.T.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. —  The U.S. Justice Department has announced it has reached a settlement with a Florida city over its policies of sharing information with federal immigration authorities.As part of the settlement, West Palm Beach sent a memorandum Tuesday to its employees stating they may share information regarding citizenship and immigration status with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.The Justice Department singled out the South Florida city and 22 other jurisdictions in January when it sent letters demanding a review of its practices of information sharing. The city filed a complaint in February challenging the Justice Department's power to impose conditions on grants based on cooperation with immigration officials.Earlier this month, the Trump administration sued California for state laws passed last year to limit local authorities' collaboration with federal immigration authorities.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 12:27 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Paul Ryan's future as House speaker has been a topic of great speculation. Even the question of whether he will seek re-election to his Wisconsin seat remains secret.Officially, Ryan says he's still deciding. But a person familiar with Ryan's thinking told The Associated Press this week the speaker plans to file campaign paperwork and intends to win his seat.To do so, the Republican would have to fend off primary challengers, including one styled after President Donald Trump, and Democrats are fired up about a union ironworker, Randy Bryce, who goes by the Twitter moniker "Iron Stache."Whether he will remain speaker could depend on what happens in the election nationally.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 1:48 P.M. E.D.T.
SANTA ANA, Calif. —  California and its Democratic-controlled Legislature have built a reputation for leading resistance against the Trump administration's immigration crackdown.But at the local level, there's a backlash brewing.On Tuesday, the Orange County Board of Supervisors voted to condemn the state's sanctuary law and join a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit that contends it's unconstitutional.The law, Senate Bill 54, limits police cooperation with federal immigration authorities. It's a capstone of the effort by Gov. Jerry Brown, legislators and mayors of the largest cities in the state to resist stepped-up efforts to deport people in the country illegally and to stop President Donald Trump from building a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico.The Justice Department welcomed Orange County's decision and Trump blasted the state's law on Twitter.Advertisement"My Administration stands in solidarity with the brave citizens in Orange County defending their rights against California's illegal and unconstitutional Sanctuary policies," he posted Wednesday.AdvertisementOrange County, home to 3.2 million people, including hundreds of thousands of immigrants, has seen its decades-long reputation as a conservative GOP base erode in recent years. Hillary Clinton won more votes than Trump in the county in the 2016 election.But on Tuesday its all-Republican Board of Supervisors voted 4-0 to join the federal lawsuit filed earlier this month against SB 54 and two other pro-immigrant state laws.Supervisor Michelle Steel, an immigrant from South Korea, told the crowd that fixing the country's immigration system will take time."Along the way, law enforcement should absolutely cooperate fully within the constraints of federal law," she said.About a dozen people holding American flags and signs reading "Support Our Constitution" cheered the board's actions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We cannot have all the states with different immigration laws. It just doesn't make sense," Doris Matyasovich told the board. "Our constitutional republic depends on following the rule of law."Immigrant advocates, however, felt the supervisors had taken a step back in the county where, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, nearly a third of the residents are immigrants."History tells us that we will win. So I will be able to look in my children's and grandchildren's eyes and tell them I was on the right side of history," Bethany Anderson of Fullerton told supervisors. "Will you be able to do that?"AdvertisementState Sen. Kevin de Leon, a Los Angeles Democrat who wrote the state's law, called the decision a "pretty sad use of taxpayer resources.""This kind of obsessive immigrant bashing is embarrassing to the county and its residents, and seems designed to court the approval of a racist President and his cronies," he said in a statement.The move highlights longstanding divisions over immigration in California. For years, some local governments have sought to help federal immigration agents pick up inmates from their jails to prevent them from being released back into their communities, while others have tried to keep their distance to encourage immigrant residents to trust police enough to come forward to report crimes.In Orange County, leaders of the small city of Los Alamitos recently voted for an ordinance to exempt itself from the state's law while leaders in the county seat of Santa Ana — a self-declared immigrant sanctuary — will consider filing an amicus brief to support California in federal court.The county also moved this week to improve communication with federal immigration agents by publishing the release dates of inmates online. The Sheriff's Department used to screen inmates in the county's jails to help Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents identify those subject to deportation but had to stop when the state law passed.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 12:31 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin is blaming his sudden ouster from the Trump administration on "political forces" that he says are bent on privatizing the agency and putting "companies with profits" over the care of veterans.Shulkin, the lone Obama administration holdover serving in President Donald Trump's Cabinet, blasted a "toxic" and "subversive" environment in Washington that made it impossible for him to lead. In a tweet late Wednesday, President Donald Trump fired Shulkin, who faced a mounting internal rebellion at VA and a bruising ethics scandal."As I prepare to leave government," he wrote in a New York Times op-ed Thursday, "I am struck by a recurring thought: It should not be this hard to serve your country."Shulkin said he was undone by advocates of privatization within the administration."They saw me as an obstacle to privatization who had to be removed," he said. "That is because I am convinced that privatization is a political issue aimed at rewarding select people and companies with profits, even if it undermines care for veterans."AdvertisementWhite House on Thursday rejected Shulkin's assertions that it was seeking to privatize the agency."This administration has taken several unprecedented steps to transform and modernize the VA, and there are no discussions about privatizing it," said White House spokesman Raj Shah. "We look forward to continuing our work with Congress to reform and strengthen the VA Choice program to provide our veterans with more choice in their health care."AdvertisementThe issue of privatizing VA has been a political hot button since the 2016 campaign, when Trump pledged to aggressively expand veterans' access to private doctors outside the government-run VA system at taxpayers' expense via the Veterans Choice program. His comments came in the wake of a 2014 scandal at the Phoenix VA medical center in which some veterans died while waiting months for medical appointments.Major veterans groups and Democrats stand opposed to an aggressive expansion, seeing the effort as a potential threat to the viability of VA medical centers.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The firing comes after the VA's internal watchdog last month concluded that Shulkin had improperly accepted Wimbledon tennis tickets and that his then chief of staff had doctored emails to justify his wife traveling to Europe with him at taxpayers' expense.But in the op-ed, Shulkin, a physician, claimed he had been "falsely accused" and blamed the "politically based attacks on me and my family's character."Trump nominated White House doctor Ronny Jackson to replace Shulkin.A White House official said Shulkin was informed of his dismissal by chief of staff John Kelly Wednesday afternoon before the president announced the move on Twitter. Shulkin's name was scrubbed from the Department of Veterans Affairs website soon after. Shulkin packed up his office and in response to a reporter's query late Wednesday dejectedly emailed: "Let's talk tomorrow — I just need tonight to myself."By Thursday morning, he was making rounds with news media, pledging to continue speaking out" against those who seek to harm the VA by prioritizing their personal agendas.___Associated Press writers Catherine Lucey and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:14 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Americans appear open to President Donald Trump's surprise decision to negotiate directly with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, and at the same time are less concerned than in recent months by the threat posed by the pariah nation's nuclear weapons.That's according to a new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research, taken after Trump agreed to what would be unprecedented meeting between a U.S. and a North Korean leader.North Korea has yet to publicly confirm plans for the summit, slated for May, but the poll results suggest its potential has eased fears of war that intensified last year as the North made rapid strides in its nuclear and missile capabilities."If you sit down and talk over any matter, there can be a resolution to it without starting a war," said Sarah Dobbs, a 64-year-old retiree from Norman, Oklahoma, who described herself as a Democrat and is among the 48 percent of Americans who favor Trump's plan to talk with Kim.Advertisement"No other president has ever done something this bold. That's why I think: Why not let Trump have at it?" she said.AdvertisementThe poll found that 29 percent oppose the plans for talks between the two nations, while 21 percent say they're neither in favor nor opposed.The survey also found an uptick in approval of Trump's handling of relations with North Korea as the focus has shifted from possible U.S. military action to diplomacy. That figure is now 42 percent, up from 34 percent last October amid a coarse back and forth between the two leaders.Last September, Trump dubbed Kim "Rocket Man" and threatened to "totally destroy" North Korea. Kim responded with threats and insults of his own, calling Trump "deranged" and a "dotard." North Korea's foreign minister suggested that it might conduct an atmospheric nuclear test in the Pacific — a threat it hasn't followed through on.Since then, the proportion of Americans who say they're very or extremely concerned about the nuclear threat North Korea poses to the U.S. has dropped to 50 percent from 67 percent. It's a decline that registered with both Republicans and Democrats. Americans also see the threat as having lessened for U.S. allies Japan and South Korea, as well as U.S. overseas territories such as Guam.Trump agreed to talk after Kim conveyed through South Korean intermediaries an offer to discuss "denuclearization" and halt nuclear and missile tests. South Korea's leader is due to have his own summit with Kim in April.Americans are divided over the potential goals of U.S. discussions with North Korea. Forty-four percent say the North must completely give up its nukes, the long-standing goal of U.S. policy. Forty percent think the U.S. should consider a deal if the North agrees to make progress toward that goal.Only 13 percent think the country shouldn't consider a deal with North Korea at all."I would like to see a denuclearization of North Korea, but I don't know how feasible that is," said Aaron Saunders, a 26-year-old medical research associate from Three Rivers, Michigan, who was generally supportive of Trump's handling of the issue — aside from his tweeting.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Theresa Ferraro, 71, of Lowell, Massachusetts, said a summit might make the world safer, but she questioned the president's temperament for negotiations.Advertisement"He speaks out too much," she said. "I'm outspoken myself, but you gotta know when to zip it and I don't think he knows."Despite the general openness toward negotiations with North Korea, Americans have mixed views about the direction of U.S. national security. One in three say that it will get better over the next year. Similar proportions say it will get worse and stay about the same.But there are clearer differences on partisan lines. Two-thirds of Republicans expect national security to improve, while a slightly smaller proportion of Democrats expect it to get worse in the year ahead.Americans have largely negative views about how the U.S. is viewed around the world. Some 53 percent think respect for American will decline in the next ahead, with just 26 percent expecting it to improve. And 48 percent think U.S. influence around the world will decline in the next year, compared with just 27 percent who believe it will get better.Pamela Williams, 69, of New York City, criticized Trump for boasting about U.S. military strength and having what she saw as flippant attitude to matters of war and peace."I have not seen anything that he's done since taking office that he's taken seriously. Everything is a joke to him," she said.___The AP-NORC poll of 1,122 adults was conducted March 14-19 using a sample drawn from NORC's probability-based AmeriSpeak Panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.Respondents were first selected randomly using address-based sampling methods, and later interviewed online or by phone.___Online:AP-NORC Center: http://www.apnorc.org/We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:57 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Wednesday he is worried that North Korean security threats to Japan, including short- and medium-range missiles, may not be discussed at a U.S.-North Korea summit.Abe told parliament he is worried President Donald Trump will focus on intercontinental ballistic missiles and forget shorter-range missiles that threaten Japan but not America."I'm worried that medium-range missiles and short-range missiles, the kind of missiles that are threats to Japan, may not be taken up during the talks, where the focus may be limited to ICBMs," Abe told the upper house budget committee. "I'm also afraid that (Trump) may achieve a nuclear test ban, but end up accepting North Korea's possession of nuclear weapons."He said international society must get North Korea to completely abandon its nuclear programs in a verifiable and irreversible way and dismantle all types of missiles that can transport nuclear warheads.AdvertisementAbe made the remarks after surprise talks earlier this week between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and Chinese President Xi Jingping. Meetings between Kim and the presidents of South Korea and the U.S. are also being planned, sidelining Abe.AdvertisementAbe said he wants to remind Trump of his concerns during an expected trip to the U.S. next month. He also mentioned Japan's desire to settle North Korea's abduction of more than a dozen Japanese citizens during the 1970s and 1980s.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some experts say Abe's concern that the U.S. may allow North Korea to remain a nuclear power and possess some missiles that do not pose danger to America is a valid one."That kind of compromise would be a disaster for Japan," said Hiro Aida, an international politics professor at Aoyama Gakuin University in Tokyo. "For us it would be a serious nuclear power, but for the United States, it would be OK."Concerns have grown in Japan as North Korean missiles have flown closer to the country's coasts in test launches. North Korea already has short- and medium-range missiles capable of hitting Japan. Last year it successfully tested ICBMs potentially able to reach major cities in the U.S.Japan currently has ship-to-air missile interceptors, and if they fail, surface-to-air PAC-3s interceptors. It plans to deploy a land-based Aegis system and is considering pre-emptive strike capabilities.___Associated Press writer Ken Moritsugu in Tokyo contributed to this report.___Find her work at https://www.apnews.com/search/mari%20yamaguchiWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 29, 2018, 3:23 A.M. E.D.T.
TOKYO —  Japan's aluminium industry on Thursday called for the United States to scrap import tariffs on aluminium as they are against international rules and pose a serious problem.Last week, U.S. President Donald Trump temporarily excluded six countries, including Canada and Mexico, and the countries of the European Union from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminium that went into effect on Friday. The exclusion included most U.S. allies, but not Japan."We are also worried that aluminium products that are shut out by the United States may flood the Asian market," Mitsuru Okada, chairman of the Japan Aluminium Association told a news conference."We will ask the Japanese government to continue seeking a country exemption from the new U.S. tariffs," Okada said, adding that Japanese aluminium makers will separately seek product exemptions.(Reporting by Yuka Obayashi; Editing by Christian Schmollinger)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:30 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The U.S. economy grew at a solid 2.9 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, a sharp upward revision that caps three quarters of the fastest growth in more than a decade. The Trump administration is hoping the economy will accelerate further this year, aided by sizable tax cuts and increased government spending.The gross domestic product, the country's total output of goods and services, grew at a faster clip than its previous estimate of 2.5 percent, the Commerce Department reported Wednesday.That 2.9 percent fourth quarter advance followed gains of 3.1 percent in the second quarter and 3.2 percent in the third quarter. It's the strongest nine-month stretch of growth in a dozen years, since the economy expanded at rates of 3.7 percent, 3.5 percent and 4.3 percent from the third quarter of 2004 through the first quarter of 2005Wednesday's revision, the government's third and final look at GDP in the quarter, was better than analysts had been expecting.Advertisement"The economy's wheels were spinning faster than we thought in the fourth quarter," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank in New York. "There is nothing in today's report that holds the economy back from its historical run to beat the 10-year expansion of the Clinton years in the 1990s."AdvertisementThe current expansion is already the third longest on record and will become the second longest, surpassing the expansion of the 1960s next month. If it lasts through June 2019, it will become the new record-holder, surpassing the 10-year expansion from March 1991 to March 2001.The updated growth figure reflected in part more spending by consumers in services including auto repairs. Overall consumer spending grew at the fastest pace in three years. The revision also reflected less of a slowdown in inventory rebuilding than previously thought, stronger business spending on new structures and more spending by state and local governments.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For the year, the GDP expanded 2.3 percent, a solid rebound from a 1.5 percent GDP increase in 2016, which had been the weakest showing since the last recession ended in 2009.President Donald Trump often points to the pickup in growth last year as evidence that his economic program of tax cuts, deregulation and stronger enforcement of trade deals is already having a positive impact.During the 2016 campaign, Trump promised to double growth, which has averaged a lackluster 2.2 percent annually since the recession ended.While Trump has talked about hitting GDP growth of 4 percent or better, his budget is based on an expectation that the economy will expand at average annual rates of 3 percent over the next decade. That forecast has been challenged as overly optimistic by private forecasters who point to the retirements of the baby boom generation and lagging productivity as factors likely to constrain growth.But economists have been revising up their GDP forecasts for this year and 2019 based on Trump's success in winning approval in December of $1.5 trillion in tax cuts over the next decade and a February budget deal that will boost government spending on the military and domestic programs by $300 billion over the next two years.Private economists do not expect the burst in government stimulus to last, forecasting that expected growth around 2.9 percent this year and 2.7 percent in 2019 will be followed by a return to slower rates closer to 2 percent. Interest rate increases from the Federal Reserve to guard against inflation and rising rates triggered by increasing government deficits are expected to slow growth in coming years.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Paul KrugmanOK, Trump has gone ahead with steel and aluminum tariffs, with an exemption for Canada and Mexico if they renegotiate NAFTA (which seems to make nonsense of the supposed national security rationale, but whatever). This is potentially a very big deal; we could be looking at the unwinding of the whole global trade system built, largely under U.S. leadership, over the past 80 years.And as it happens, this topic is right up my alley. So I’m going to be taking reader questions. You can leave questions in the comment section of this post or at NYT Opinion’s Facebook page. I’ll respond to selected questions early next week.Update: Here are my answers to some of your questions. Follow me on Twitter (@PaulKrugman) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionPaul KrugmanOpinionPaul KrugmanAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:33 A.M. E.D.T.
LIMA, Peru —  A Peruvian official says new President Martin Vizcarra will continue to ban Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro from attending a regional summit next month.The decision to exclude Maduro from the Summit of Americas was taken by former President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski.But with Kuczynski's resignation last week as he faced impeachment there was speculation his successor would look to reverse the decision. Vizcarra said Tuesday that he would leave the decision to his foreign ministry.A ministry official later agreed to reveal the decision to The Associated Press only on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to discuss the matter with the press.Maduro has vowed to travel to Peru for the summit despite the ban. President Donald Trump is also scheduled to attend.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 8:02 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Monday it would expand its local news push beyond the United States to provide users with more stories from local sources covering their current cities and other cities of interest.In January, Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg had announced the changes that first rolled out in the United States and would expand to a global audience.The changes come amid allegations that the British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to Facebook users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.Facebook also faces criticism that its algorithms may have prioritized misleading news in people's feeds.(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 3:06 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Officials are hoping to break ground on a project replacing 20 miles of border wall in Santa Teresa, New Mexico in early April.That's according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection Acting Deputy Commissioner Ronald D. Vitiello.Vitiello briefed reporters Friday on how the administration plans to spend the $1.6 billion Congress authorized for border wall construction this year.It's much less than the $25 billion Trump wanted. But officials are eager to show they're nonetheless making progress.Vitiello says the money will provide for about 100 miles of new and replacement wall, including replacing 14 miles of steel landing mat in densely populated San Diego with a bollard-style wall.Barriers currently blanket 654 miles of the 1,954-mile southern Mexico.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Frank BruniIt’s hard to imagine a candidate with friendlier looks, a more harmless demeanor and a gentler-sounding surname than Conor Lamb.It’s hard to imagine a message for the G.O.P. scarier than the one that Lamb, a Democrat, just delivered in a special House election in Pennsylvania’s 18th district, where he led his Republican opponent, Rick Saccone, by less than 1,000 votes in a race that remained too close to call on Wednesday morning.Lamb declared victory. But even if he somehow ends up losing, Democrats have reason to rejoice and Republicans to tremble. Just 16 months ago, Donald Trump won this district by 20 points, and its promise as the kind of place brimming with the sort of voters who thrill to him was confirmed by his visit there late last week for a rally in support of Saccone. The president put what popularity he retains on the line, and flexed his trademark schoolyard humor with the epithet “Lamb the Sham.” This is all that he has to show for it.Politically and ideologically, Saccone glued himself to Trump, running a campaign whose slogan might as well have been, “I’m With Him.” Outside Republican groups poured millions into the race, some of it for ads that touted the very tax cuts that are supposed to buoy their hopes to hold onto their House majority in the November midterms.In other words, they fought hard — and with definite cause for optimism. The district has voted so reliably Republican over the last decade that in the 2014 and 2016 House races, Democrats didn’t even bother to field a candidate.So Lamb’s showing — win, lose or draw — is remarkable, and it’s of a piece with the victory of Doug Jones, a Democrat, in a special election for the U.S. Senate in Alabama and with what happened last November in Virginia, where Democrats prevailed decisively in the gubernatorial race and picked up a large number of seats in the state’s House of Delegates. Clearly, the opposition to Trump is energized and organized. Just as clearly, Trump’s style of governing — bereft of truth, lavish with chaos, crude and divisive — has diminished his standing and given his rivals an enormous window of opportunity.In the upcoming hours and days, you will hear otherwise. Republican leaders will spin like mad. They’ll make the case that what happened in Pennsylvania was peculiar to Pennsylvania and that there are few omens to be seen in it or lessons to be gleaned. They commenced that effort even before the voting in Pennsylvania on Tuesday, spooked by late polls that suggested serious trouble for Saccone, 60.They murmured about what an especially clumsy and charisma-deficient candidate he had turned out to be, implying that if they could have tucked him into a closet and prevented him from stumping, they would have. They bemoaned everything about him down to his mustache.They noted that Lamb, 33, a handsome (and clean-shaven) military veteran, was straight from central casting and had no extensive political record to contradict stances so moderate and squishy that he could be mistaken, well, for a Republican. They said that Democrats would be hard-pressed to find many more Lambs with which to slaughter the G.O.P. in November.“When your message is simply I am for new leadership and cleaning up Washington, and you look like you just walked out of an Orvis catalog, you are going to connect with voters on both sides of the aisle,” wrote Salena Zito in The Washington Examiner late last week.“Lamb never slams Trump,” she observed. “He is not part of the resistance.” He further blunted Republicans’ favorite weapon against Democratic candidates for the House — they’re just would-be pawns of the dreaded Nancy Pelosi! — by running an ad that made clear that he would not support her as his party’s leader in that chamber.The point that Zito was correctly making was that many of the Democrats who will vie to unseat Republican incumbents in House races in November won’t be able to follow Lamb’s playbook. To get through their party’s primaries, they’ll have to stake out more progressive ground than he did, and adopt a more combative, fiery tone. That could undercut their chances of replicating his success.Indeed, Democrats’ euphoria over how he fared on Tuesday will give way to sharp internal tensions and sustained quarreling over which sorts of candidates — soft-spoken or bold, centrist or liberal, eclectic or pure — the party would be wisest, from a pragmatic standpoint, to promote. Many Democratic voters want someone less mild and muddled than Lamb.But if the Pennsylvania results put Democrats in an awkward position, they leave Republicans in an even worse place. What exactly is their best strategy for the midterms?Not all of their candidates will be leagues better than Saccone, who is no Roy Moore and is himself a military veteran. Sending President Trump into districts that supposedly smile on him isn’t looking like such a hot proposition. The mantra of “tax cuts, tax cuts, tax cuts” is obviously no panacea.And with each passing week — each passing day — the Trump administration’s turbulence intensifies and the scandals and scandal-ettes pile up. Yes, it’s a long way from now until November, and much about the national mood and the playing field can change. But in that yawning stretch of time, Trump can also render himself and his enablers even less attractive. I have faith.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 3:06 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Latest on the 2020 census and the addition of a question on citizenship (all times local):3 p.m.The White House says the decision to include a citizenship question in the 2020 U.S. Census was not made in the West Wing.Press secretary Sarah Sanders says the White House "supports" the decision but it "was made at the department level."The Commerce Department, which oversees the Census, says it is including the question in part to provide the Justice Department with the information it needs to implement the Voting Rights Act.The decision is being protested by immigrant rights groups, who contend the citizenship question will depress responses from immigrant communities, skewing the results of the decennial Census.AdvertisementSanders says she is not aware of any specific outreach efforts being planned to encourage immigrants to respond to the survey.Advertisement___2:35 p.m.New York will lead a coalition of blue states in a lawsuit against the Trump administration over a decision to include a citizenship question on the 2020 U.S. Census.State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat, announced the lawsuit Tuesday. He said the question asking residents about their citizenship status will create fear and mistrust in immigrant communities and could skew census results if some immigrants choose not to participate.Officials in other heavily Democratic states including New Jersey, Massachusetts and California have said they will sue over the census question.Schneiderman says the decision to add the question "directly targets" states with large immigrant populations.The census results are the basis for each state's number of seats in the U.S. House as well as its share of federal funding.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___10:25 a.m.Massachusetts Secretary of State William Galvin, a Democrat, tells The Associated Press that he expects his state would also join in a lawsuit against the Trump administration over the decision to include a citizenship question on the 2020 U.S. Census. Galvin called the decision an attempt to suppress the count in states such as Massachusetts that have large immigrant populations.Galvin called the addition of a citizenship question "a blatant attempt by the Trump administration to frighten minority groups away from being counted." He said he would be consulting with the state attorney general and possibly other states about filing or joining lawsuits.California has already said it will sue the Trump administration over the decision.Massachusetts has an all-Democratic congressional delegation and its Electoral College votes have gone to the Democratic presidential nominee in 13 of the last 15 presidential elections.Advertisement__12 a.m.The Commerce Department says the 2020 U.S. Census will include a question about citizenship status.Commerce says in a press release issued Monday night that the citizenship data will help the Justice Department enforce the Voting Rights Act, which protects minority voting rights.But opponents say the question will discourage immigrants from responding to the census. A coalition of state attorneys general urged the Commerce Department last month to not add such a question, saying it could lower participation among immigrants and cause a population undercount.The decennial census helps determine political representation in Congress, federal funding of programs and other matters.Commerce says that between 1820 and 1950, almost every decennial census asked a question on citizenship in some form.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 4:29 P.M. E.D.T.
PALM BEACH, Fla. —  President Donald Trump has issued an order supporting his push to ban most transgender troops from serving in the U.S. military except under "limited circumstances." But the decision is expected to be the subject of an ongoing legal fight in the months ahead.The White House announced the decision late Friday, shortly after the president arrived at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, completing a process that followed Trump's surprise announcement on Twitter last year that he would reverse an Obama administration plan to allow transgender individuals to serve openly.In a memo to the president, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis pointed to "substantial risks" with allowing military personnel who seek to undertake a treatment to change their gender or who question their gender identity.Mattis also said exempting those in the military from "well-established mental health, physical health and sex-based standards" applying to all service members could hurt "military effectiveness and lethality." But the policy includes narrow exemptions allowing some transgender members to serve.AdvertisementThe Pentagon has not released data on the number of transgender people serving, but a Rand Corp. study previously estimated between 1,320 and 6,630, out of 1.3 million active-duty troops.AdvertisementSeveral legal challenges have blocked Trump's efforts to enact a ban, and four federal courts have already ruled against the ban. The Pentagon responded by allowing those serving to stay in the military, and began allowing transgender individuals to enlist beginning Jan. 1.Civil rights advocates said they would continue the legal fight, which could eventually reach the Supreme Court.Before the policy was announced on Friday, Maj. David Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said it would have no immediate practical effect on the military because the Pentagon is obliged to continue to recruit and retain transgender people in accordance with current law.HOW THE POLICY WORKSMattis wrote in the 48-page memo that U.S. troops who require or have already had gender reassignment surgery should be disqualified from military service.Service members with a history or diagnosis of "gender dysphoria," or those with discomfort with their biological sex, would also be banned — but with some exceptions.Current transgender service members who have not yet undergone reassignment surgery are allowed to remain in the military, as long as they have been medically stable for 36 consecutive months in their biological sex before joining the military and are able to deploy across the globe.It also allows currently serving service members to remain if they were diagnosed with gender dysphoria since the Obama administration's policy took effect and prior to the start of the new Trump policy. Those service members are allowed to serve in their preferred gender and receive medical treatment for gender dysphoria.AdvertisementTHE PATHWAY TO THE DECISIONDuring President Barack Obama's final year in office, the Pentagon announced it would allow transgender individuals to serve openly in the military and service members could not be discharged solely based on their gender identity.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The process was still under final review when Trump took office. Mattis announced in June 2017 that he would delay enacting the policy for six months while the military studied the issue.Trump in July 2017 declared on Twitter that the U.S. would not "accept or allow ... transgender individuals to serve in any capacity" in the military. The tweets caught the Pentagon off guard and were followed by the review of the policies.The president received recommendations from Mattis in February for dealing with transgender individuals serving in the military, leading to Friday's announcement.LEGAL CHALLENGESSeveral legal challenges to Trump's proposed ban are ongoing. At least four federal judges have refused to allow the ban to go into effect. Because of the injunctions, the Pentagon has been allowing transgender individuals to enlist since January.One of the forefronts of the legal fight is in California, where a federal judge rejected a Trump administration attempt to throw out a lawsuit asking for the ban to be voided. California's attorney general, Xavier Becerra, said Friday the state would "continue to vigorously defend the rights of transgender individuals."Lambda Legal and OutServe-SLDN, meanwhile, said they would seek a permanent injunction on Tuesday before a federal judge in Seattle.The Justice Department said in a statement late Friday that it would defend the Pentagon's authority to "implement personnel policies they have determined are necessary to best defend our nation" and would ask the courts to lift all related preliminary injunctions.REACTION TO TRUMP'S PLANThe response to the White House announcement has largely fallen along partisan lines, with Democrats and civil rights groups opposing the plan and Republicans and conservatives approving of it.AdvertisementHouse Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California called it a "hateful ban" aimed at humiliating transgender members of the military.Tony Perkins, president of the conservative group Family Research Council, said Trump had kept his pledge to "end the Obama era of social experimentation in our nation's military" and the policy would move the military away from "political correctness."__We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 9, 2018

Did you stay up to date this week? To take the quiz, click on an answer, and the correct response will be revealed after you choose. 



Last week, the question about Hope Hicks had the highest share of correct answers, with 96 percent of readers getting it right. (Would we lie to you?) The question about Gov. Eric Greitens of Missouri was the toughest; only 58 percent responded correctly. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.


Finally, a programming note: The news quiz is taking next Friday off. It will return March 23.

The White House said on Thursday that President Trump had accepted an invitation to meet with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, to discuss its nuclear program.The offer came after Mr. Kim indicated a sudden willingness this week to bargain with the U.S. over scrapping its atomic arsenal.Which step was not among those that the North is willing to take, according to the South Korean envoys who met with Mr. Kim on Monday?Drop its demand that the U.S. withdraw its troops from the Korean PeninsulaEstablish a telephone hotline with South Korea’s presidentHold a summit meeting with South KoreaSuspend nuclear and missile tests during any negotiationsPresident Trump defied opposition from his own party and protests from overseas as he signed orders on Thursday imposing stiff and sweeping new tariffs. What are the tariffs’ two primary targets?AluminumHeavy machineryPlasticsSteelItalians voted on Sunday in the first national election in five years, and a majority of votes were cast for populist and hard-right parties.No party gained enough support to form a government, but which one won the most votes?Brothers of ItalyDemocratic PartyFive Star MovementForza ItaliaThe LeagueThe majority owner of a Trump International Hotel and Tower declared victory on Monday in a nearly two-week effort to oust the president’s family business as managers of the property.In which city is the hotel located?ChicagoDubaiLas VegasPanama CityThe mayor of which U.S. city resigned on Tuesday after pleading guilty to a felony charge of theft of property?Charlotte, N.C.MinneapolisNashvilleSeattleThe 10th-longest-serving senator in U.S. history announced on Monday that he would be resigning on April 1 because of ill health.His resignation means there will be races for both U.S. Senate seats in which southern state this fall?AlabamaGeorgiaMississippiTennesseeOn May 6, 1954, a British medical student became the first person to run a mile in under four minutes, creating a seminal moment in sports history. He died Saturday at 88.Name him.Roger BannisterGeorge BestSebastian CoeBobby MooreA population of about 1.5 million animals has been newly discovered on a remote chain of islands in Antarctica, according to a new study.What type of animals are they?Elephant sealsPenguinsPigeonsPolar bearsAt the Academy Awards on Sunday, which of these films was not represented among the winners of the six major award categories (best picture, director, actress, actor, supporting actress and supporting actor)?“Darkest Hour”“Lady Bird”“The Shape of Water”“Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”Prince Harry and his fiancée, Meghan Markle, announced on Friday that they would invite whom to Windsor Castle to celebrate their wedding in May?1,200 members of the publicBarack and Michelle ObamaPresident and Melania TrumpThe Spice GirlsAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ross DouthatNow that John Bolton has finally ascended from the limbo of the green room to the Valhalla of the White House, we need to settle the first question of his tenure: Is he a “neocon” or a “paleocon”?I have seen both terms used, the former more promiscuously, to describe Donald Trump’s new national security adviser. But they’re both misdescriptions, and explaining why is a useful way of putting Trump’s foreign policy team (and its distinctive dangers) in intellectual and historical perspective.Foreign policy conservatives can be grouped into four broad categories. The first group, the genuine paleocons, are the oldest and least influential: Their lineage goes back to the antiwar conservatism of the 1930s, and to postwar Republicans who regarded our Cold War buildup as a big mistake.The last paleocon to play a crucial role in U.S. politics was the Ohio Republican Robert Taft, who opposed NATO and became a critic of the Korean War. Pat Buchanan tried to revive paleoconservatism in the 1990s; The American Conservative magazine and the Cato Institute carry the torch in intellectual debates. But the tendency’s only politically significant heir right now is Kentucky Senator Rand Paul.Except that even Paul, wary of the label, would probably describe himself instead as a realist, linking himself to the tradition of Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon and George H. W. Bush — internationalist, stability-oriented, committed to the Pax Americana but skeptical of grand crusades, and open to working out cynical arrangements rather than pushing American power to its limit.This cynicism explains why realists have found their chief rivals among the neoconservatives, a group best defined as liberal anti-Communists who moved right in the 1970s as the Democratic Party moved left, becoming more hawkish and unilateralist but retaining a basic view that American power should be used for moral purpose, to spread American ideals.Thus neoconservatives despised the Nixon White House’s realpolitik; they cheered Ronald Reagan’s anti-Communism; they chafed under George H.W. Bush’s realism and backed humanitarian interventions under Democratic presidents; and most famously they regarded the Iraq War as a chance to democratize the Middle East. And then when that war went badly, they became the natural scapegoats …… Even though some of the most disastrous Iraq decisions were made by members of the fourth conservative faction, the pure hawks, the group to which John Bolton emphatically belongs. The hawks share the neocons’ aggressiveness and the realists’ wariness of nation building; they also have a touch of paleoconservatism, embracing “America First” without its non-interventionist implications.But the hawkish tradition, from Douglas MacArthur down to Dick Cheney (a realist reborn as a hawk post-9/11) and now Bolton, is distinguished by simplicity: The default response to any challenge should be military escalation, the imposition of America’s will by force — and if one dangerous regime is succeeded by another, you just go in and kill the next round of bad guys, too.Most Republican administrations have placed hawks, neocons and realists in complex internal alignments. The invasion of Iraq, for instance, was championed by hawks and neocons with realists in uneasy and soon-disillusioned support; by the end of the Bush presidency, the hawks had been marginalized and realists like Robert Gates were supervising a neoconservative-hatched strategy, the surge.Donald Trump’s vision, though, promised a different combination, mixing a revived paleoconservatism — hence his NATO skepticism, his right-wing “come home, America” pose — with a realist desire for a Russian détente and a hawkish attitude toward terrorism. Trump made his antipathy to neoconservatives obvious, and they returned the sentiment: The most anti-Trump voices on the right belong to the democracy promoters of the Bush era.In Trump year one, the paleocon-ish elements in his circle — Steve Bannon, most prominently — were sidelined by H. R. McMaster and James Mattis, and Trump ended up with a realist-leaning foreign policy run by businessmen and generals, with Nikki Haley occasionally sounding neoconservative notes at the U.N.But Trump didn’t get along with McMaster and Rex Tillerson — and he clearly thinks he might like hawks better. So now we have an administration in which both paleoconservatism and neoconservatism are sidelined, and straight-up hawkishness is institutionally ascendant as it has rarely been in modern presidencies — save in the Peak Cheneyism following 9/11.Boltonism need not be as disastrous as Cheneyism. If a realist like Cheney can turn into a “1 percent doctrine” hawk, then perhaps Bolton can transform the other way, and find a strategic prudence that his “let’s fight everyone” punditry conspicuously lacks. Also, Mattis’s military form of realism might have a restraining influence over Trump, and Trump’s bluff and bluster might not readily translate into okaying the war-on-all-fronts strategy that Bolton has tended to endorse.But a foreign policy team managed by hawks, untouched by neoconservative idealism and cut loose from Trump’s paleocon tendencies, seems more likely than not to give us what the hawkish persuasion always wants: more wars, and soon.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@DouthatNYT).Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 5:57 P.M. E.D.T.
SANTA ANA, Calif. —  The Latest on a proposal for Orange County to join a lawsuit over California's so-called sanctuary law (all times local):2:35 p.m.Leaders in Orange County, California, have voted to join a U.S. government lawsuit against the state over its so-called sanctuary law for immigrants living in the U.S. illegally.By a 3-0 vote, the all-Republican Board of Supervisors decided in closed session Tuesday to take the action.The vote comes a week after the small Orange County city of Los Alamitos voted to opt out of the state law that limits local police collaboration with federal immigration agents.California passed the sanctuary law last year to try to protect immigrants from stepped-up deportations under the Trump administration.Advertisement___10:30 a.m.Several dozen immigrant advocates have held a rally to urge elected officials in Orange County, California, to refrain from joining a federal lawsuit over the state's so-called sanctuary law.AdvertisementSalvador G. Sarmiento, legislative director for the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, said Tuesday that approving the proposal would return the Southern California county to a "hateful time."Advocates played music and held signs with slogans supporting sanctuary.The county Board of Supervisors is set to discuss proposals to pass a resolution supporting efforts by the small city of Los Alamito to opt out of California's law limiting police collaboration with immigration agents and a U.S. government lawsuit against the state.California passed the law last year to try to protect immigrants from the Trump administration's stepped up deportations.___7:15 a.m.Authorities in Orange County, California, have started publishing the release dates for inmates from the county's jails to try to help federal agents locate immigrants subject to deportation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Orange County Sheriff's Department said Monday the information is available on its website.The move comes after California passed a law limiting local police collaboration with deportation agents. That measure also put an end to a long-standing program in Orange County where deputies screened inmates to help federal authorities identify immigrants subject to deportation.The Southern California county's board of supervisors is considering joining a lawsuit against the state's so-called sanctuary law. California's law is aimed at protecting immigrants from stepped-up deportations under the Trump administration.The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department also publishes the release dates of inmates online.___10:56 p.m.Leaders in Orange County, California, are considering whether to fight the state's so-called sanctuary law for immigrants living in the U.S. illegally.AdvertisementThe backlash over the law aimed at protecting immigrants from stepped-up deportations under the Trump administration comes a week after the small city of Los Alamitos in Orange County voted to opt out of it.The all-Republican supervisors of the Southern California county of 3.2 million people are expected Tuesday to discuss passing a resolution supporting Los Alamitos and whether to join the U.S. government's lawsuit against the state.California passed its law last year to limit local police collaboration with federal immigration authorities.Supporters say the measure encourages immigrants to report crime to police without fearing deportation. Critics say local authorities should provide more assistance to federal agents.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 12:41 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Under President Barack Obama and a GOP-controlled Congress, Capitol Hill Democrats had to scratch and claw for months to get tiny increases for domestic programs — or just hold them level.The $1.3 trillion government-wide funding bill signed by President Donald Trump on Friday gave them almost everything they wanted.Big fights in 2016 over $1.1 billion emergency funding to battle the Zika virus or $170 million to deal with Flint, Michigan's lead-poisoned water look pretty silly in retrospect.Then, just keeping programs like Head Start, child care grants, and heating subsidies for the poor funded at prior-year levels required months-long battles — backstopped by Obama veto threats.Advertisement"You had to fight for every dollar," said the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy.AdvertisementThe times certainly have changed. Democrats have gone from battling for every scrap to reaping a full-course meal under Trump.In the spending bill that rapidly passed last week, so-called TIGER grants — a transportation projects grant program created by Obama's much-maligned 2009 economic stimulus bill — were tripled from $500 million to $1.5 billion. Grants for child care programs got a $2.4 billion increase that almost doubled the size of the program. Mass transit funding got a $1.1 billion increase, while Army Corps of Engineers water and flood control projects received a $789 million, 13 percent increase. There's a more than $2 billion increase in spending for federal student aid and other higher education programs.Trump said on Twitter that he had to "waste money on Dem giveaways" to get what he wanted on defense."Waste money on Dem giveaways'?  Would he call funding our heroic veterans 'Dem giveaways'?  Affordable childcare for hardworking middle-class families?  Life-saving medical research, which creates jobs?  The integrity of America's elections?" said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.The increases for non-defense programs — $52 billion more than current levels, or 10 percent — not only erased the automatic spending cuts known as sequestration but smashed through a more generous set of budget "caps" originally set under the 2011 budget pact.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump admitted on Friday that Democrats had him over a barrel."There are a lot of things that we shouldn't have had in this bill, but we were, in a sense, forced — if we want to build our military — we were forced to have," Trump said Friday afternoon in a White House event after he signed the bill.For Republicans, the months-long showdown over the budget played out in slow motion. All along, GOP leaders were confronted by demands from Republican defense hawks for huge increases in defense spending. Since Republicans needed Democratic votes to pass any spending bill, top Democratic leaders like House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer were able to demand comparable increases for domestic programs."It's more a story about pressures on defense spending," said Rohit Kumar, a former top aide to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. "That then, in turn, gave leverage to House and Senate Democrats who used it to their maximum ability."AdvertisementThe seeds of the budget-busting measure were sown seven years ago after enactment of a hard-fought budget and debt deal between Obama and Republicans. In those talks, then-Speaker John Boehner had laid down an edict that any increase in the national debt be matched by equal cuts to spending and the deficit.After an attempt by Boehner and Obama in the summer of 2011 to forge a "grand bargain" on the budget failed, under-the-gun negotiators devised a plan to establish a budget "supercommittee" to come up with an alternative. But when the supercommittee failed, big automatic spending cuts known as sequestration took effect.Those cuts set the precedent that any spending relief would be equally split between defense and nondefense programs. Another agreement for 2017 only deepened the impact of this year's automatic cuts.With defense programs facing a freeze but lacking leverage over Democrats, the bidding began. In the end, a bipartisan budget pact sealed last month set up a two-year framework to break the caps again, for 2018 and 2019. The 2,000 page-plus catchall spending bill signed by Trump on Friday filled in the details."We are growing the size of government at a break-neck pace," said conservative Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C. "This is not the limited government conservatism our voters demand."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 2:29 P.M. E.D.T.
MANBIJ, Syria —  A week ago, there was just a single house where U.S. soldiers had hoisted an American flag on a hill not far from a tense front line in Syria.On Wednesday, there was a growing fortified position with a perimeter of large sand barriers and barbed wire, a new watch tower and a half-dozen armored vehicles.Even as U.S. President Donald Trump spoke of pulling out of Syria "very soon," an Associated Press team saw American forces setting up front-line positions outside the strategic northern town of Manbij, west of the Euphrates River.The area is the scene of a tense standoff. U.S.-backed Kurdish-led forces who hold Manbij are facing off against Turkish-backed Syrian fighters.AdvertisementTurkey has vowed to retake Manbij and other Kurdish-held territory along the Syrian-Turkish border; the U.S. troops stationed here are a key reason why they are holding back.AdvertisementThe U.S.-led coalition in Syria said last week that there were no U.S. bases in the area and that U.S. patrols were not fixed in one place.In response to an AP query, Pentagon spokesman Eric Pahon said the coalition cannot discuss specific movements and locations of forces in Syria.He said that commanders are delegated the authority and the responsibility to position people and resources needed to accomplish the mission and to protect themselves."Occasional modifications to force size would therefore be normal," Pahon said in an email.The AP team, which was escorted by Kurdish fighters, saw that the new U.S. outpost was a work in progress.A half-dozen armored vehicles sat on opposite sides of the outpost, each with a soldier on watch. A couple of soldiers at one end plowed the ground to lay sandbags, while another group worked out at the other end. Inside an observation post atop a roof, a soldier scanned the horizon through binoculars. A forklift was parked near some wooden planks, indicating more work remains to be done.The outpost was clearly visible from a main road, with civilians and a mosque nearby.A front-line commander in Manbij and a member of the Manbij Military Council, the joint Kurdish-Arab body leading the U.S.-allied forces here, said the post went up a week ago."We are 1 kilometer from (the village of) Datat, the front line. There is a new U.S. position constructed here. It has been here for seven or eight days here," said the commander, who spoke on condition of anonymity in line with the Kurdish-led force's regulations but goes by the nom de guerre of Ali Manbij.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Previously, the U.S. forces only patrolled the front line and kept one position near Manbij, but now more forces are expected at the new post, the local commander said.Advertisement"Before, it was only patrols. Now it is better," he said. "It is to protect the area and to ensure that there is no attack from Turkey or from the mercenaries in the area."A Kurdish official on the site said more such posts are expected to be built along the more than 50-kilometer front line with Turkey-backed Syrian fighters.Trump and his national security team are having a contentious debate about the U.S. role in Syria, where the coalition has been fighting the Islamic State militant group since 2014. About 2,000 U.S. troops are in Syria. Manbij was liberated from IS control in 2016 after fierce battles that lasted nearly three months.Trump told reporters Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove the forces, saying their primary mission was to defeat IS."We've almost completed that task," he said.The White House said Wednesday the U.S. military mission in Syria was coming to "a rapid end" but offered no firm timeline for withdrawal.With allies anxious about a hasty U.S. withdrawal, the Trump administration said it would stay in Syria to finish the job of defeating IS and was committed to eliminating the militants' "small" presence that "our forces have not already eradicated.""We will continue to consult with our allies and friends regarding future plans," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a brief written statement. "We expect countries in the region and beyond, plus the United Nations, to work toward peace and ensure" that IS never comes back.The head of the U.S.-backed Manbij Military Council noted the conflicting statements from Washington but said the U.S. officials in Syria, including senior military commanders, have said "they will stay in Manbij."The council official, who spoke on condition of being identified only by his nom de guerre Mohammed Abu Adel in line with regulations, said other coalition forces may take over if the U.S. decides to withdraw.Advertisement"The statements from U.S. President Trump may cause concern on the street level. He is a president, after all, saying these things. This causes concern in the street but we hope they stay here," the official told AP. "These statements — we don't know their meaning exactly, but the forces are currently there on the front line."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By CHRIS STANFORDAPRIL 4, 2018
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• He’s been in office 14 months, but President Trump is increasingly falling back on the hard-edge isolationism that fueled his “America First” campaign.He also said he planned to deploy the National Guard to the border with Mexico, to confront what the White House calls the growing threat of illegal immigration and crime.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, didn’t say how many troops would be sent, nor when. Mr. Trump has spoken before about using the military to police the border, only to have his aides walk back the remarks.• Immigration rights campaigners said the announcement was a political ploy. Mr. Trump has been criticized by some conservative supporters for signing a trillion-dollar-plus spending measure that didn’t fund the border wall he promised.President Trump, expressing his disdain for Nafta and Obama-era immigration policies, said he will send the military to guard the United States border with Mexico.• The woman who shot and wounded three people at the company’s headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., before killing herself on Tuesday has been identified by the police as Nasim Najafi Aghdam.AdvertisementMs. Aghdam, who was in her late 30s, was active on YouTube, where she had posted videos including music parodies and workouts.AdvertisementShe had criticized YouTube for measures that decreased the number of views of her videos, some of which contained what the site’s staff said were inappropriate scenes. YouTube had removed all of her channels by Tuesday night.• Here’s  what else we know about the shooting.• A mentally ill man on suicide watch hanged himself. Gang members were allowed to beat other prisoners. Inmates whose cries for medical attention were ignored resorted to setting fires in their cells.These are just some of the details that have emerged during a trial in Mississippi that has provided a rare glimpse into the world of privately operated prisons.• The case comes as the number of inmates in private facilities is increasing and as the Trump administration hints that it will expand their use.Surveillance footage recorded in East Mississippi Correctional Facility shows prison guards taking nearly 30 minutes to respond to an assault on an inmate.• For the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. today, we look back at the civil rights leader and the battles that outlived him: workers’ rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.“All the issues that he raised toward the end of his life are as contemporary now as they were then,” a historian who has written several books about Dr. King said.Here’s the Times front page the day after Dr. King was shot, and his obituary.• We also spoke to black pastors around the U.S. about their calls for action in a climate that has shifted drastically since the civil rights era.The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. came to Memphis in 1968 to march with sanitation workers who were protesting low wages and poor working conditions. Cleophus Smith marched with him. He’s still on the job.It started with a report on Fox News, and ended with calls for troops at the border with Mexico. We look at how President Trump’s approach to immigration transformed over 72 hours.• China struck back at the U.S. today with proposed tariffs on American goods including soybeans, cars and chemicals. The move came just hours after the Trump administration detailed $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese products.AdvertisementThe news sent U.S. stocks  sharply down this morning. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.• Amazon is the latest in a long line of companies that President Trump has denounced on Twitter, contributing to a drop in the online retailer’s stock.We checked the facts behind some of his criticisms.• How do you say “Oops” in Swedish? The New York Stock Exchange welcomed the Sweden-based company Spotify on its first day of trading by flying a Swiss flag out front.The streaming music service ended the day with a valuation of $26.5 billion.• Morgan Stanley has fired a star financial adviser who had been accused by multiple former wives and girlfriends of physical abuse and stalking.The Times reported the accusations against the broker, Douglas Greenberg, last week.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Save your relationship — outsource chores.• Make a luxury trip to Paris affordable with these tips.• Recipe of the day: Try a dinner of Swedish (not Swiss) meatballs, mashed potatoes and a little lingonberry jam.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:• “Though not the dominant force in technology that it was in the mid-20th century, IBM continues to employ hundreds of thousands worldwide.Advertisement“This investigative piece shows the ways many of those workers are made to feel unwelcome, or forced out, late in their careers.“Once past 55, one former employee said, ‘You have to prepare for losing your job and burning through every cent you’ve saved just to get to retirement.’ ” [ProPublica/Mother Jones]— Kevin McKenna, deputy business editor• “ ‘The Road Not Taken,’ a poem widely seen as a celebration of unorthodox choices, has been called ‘the most misread poem in America.’“This animated video by the magazine that first published the poem in 1915 helps us reconsider what Robert Frost meant about taking ‘the one less traveled by.’ ” [The Atlantic]— Jennifer Jett, senior staff editor, Hong Kong• Oaxaca on the GowanusOur critic tried out Claro, in Brooklyn, a restaurant that pays tribute to a rich branch of Mexican cuisine with house-ground masa and riveting moles.• When it’s always sweater weatherFor nearly 20 years, Samuel Barsky has been knitting sweaters depicting familiar sights. More recently, he has posted photographs of himself in front of landmarks while wearing matching knitwear.• Best of late-night TVSeveral of the comedy hosts discussed President Trump’s tweets about Amazon and the Postal Service: “This is when I appreciate Twitter: It used to be, if you wanted to hear a 71-year-old man whining about the post office, you had to go to the post office,” Seth Meyers said.Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Quotation of the day“The one thing that would be dishonorable for us is to bring all this attention to the assassination of Dr. King and not have a resurrection of the efforts and the unfinished business dealing with systemic racism, systemic poverty.”Advertisement— The Rev. Dr. William Barber II, a North Carolina pastor whose sermons and outreach efforts often address civil rights.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: Niobe.The Greek mythological character Niobe was the subject of a tough clue from the March 28 crossword puzzle: “ ‘Like ___, all tears’: Hamlet.” The word has appeared in Times crosswords 139 times.Niobe is most closely associated with tears, as noted in Shakespeare’s “Hamlet”:A little month, or ere those shoes were oldWith which she followed my poor father’s body,Like Niobe, all tears. Why she, even she —O God, a beast that wants discourse of reasonWould have mourned longer! — married with my uncle The story of Niobe’s tears began at a ceremony held to honor the Titan Leto, mother of the twin gods Apollo and Artemis. In a fit of arrogance, Niobe bragged that she was superior to Leto because she had more children (either 12 or 14, depending on the version of the myth).When the twins heard this, they came to earth and killed all of Niobe’s children. In anguish, she ran to Mount Sipylus to beg the gods to end her pain. Zeus felt sorry for her and turned her into a rock, so she would feel no more.Even as a rock, however, Niobe’s tears continued to flow, and the stream that pours from the real Weeping Rock in Manisa, Turkey, symbolizes a mother’s eternal mourning.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.AdvertisementSign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 3:30 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration is considering a proposal that would penalize immigrants for accepting almost any form of public benefit, including a popular tax credit.Under a draft proposal first reported by The Washington Post, the Department of Homeland Security would expand the definition of "public benefit" to include the federal earned income tax credit as well as health insurance and housing subsidies.The earned income tax credit benefits low- and moderate-income workers, particularly those with children.Department spokesman Tyler Houlton says the proposed rule was sent to the Office of Management and Budget to be listed in the Federal Register Thursday.He stressed the proposal is "pre-decisional," but that the administration "is committed to enforcing existing immigration law," as well as "respecting taxpayer dollars."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 4, 2018, 10:17 A.M. E.D.T.
MADISON, Wis. —  The Latest on Wisconsin Supreme Court election (all times local):8:45 a.m.Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker says the win by a liberal candidate for state Supreme Court deals a "serious blow" to the conservative movement.Walker is issuing the warning in a fundraising email following a torrent of tweets the Republican incumbent sent Tuesday night and Wednesday morning.Liberal Milwaukee judge Rebecca Dallet trounced conservative opponent Michael Screnock by 12 points in the election, fueling optimism among Democrats for more wins in the midterms. President Donald Trump narrowly won Wisconsin by less than 1 percentage point in 2016.Walker says the Dallet win shows "we are at risk of a Blue Wave in Wisconsin." He issued a similar warning after a Democrat won a special state Senate election in January.AdvertisementWalker is up for re-election to a third term in November.___12:04 a.m.Democrats in Wisconsin are crowing over capturing a state Supreme Court seat — and Republican Gov. Scott Walker is warning of a possible "blue wave" in elections later this year.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Rebecca Dallet, a liberal Milwaukee judge, easily beat conservative Sauk County judge Michael Screnock on Tuesday to win the 10-year term on the court.AdvertisementThe race was nonpartisan in name only, with national figures such as Joe Biden and Eric Holder and groups like the National Rifle Association pouring in money and endorsements.Wisconsin's Supreme Court races haven't always been reliable predictors of elections later in the year. But Democrats are eager to see momentum, especially after they won a special Senate election in January for a reliably conservative seat in the western part of the state.Donald Trump carried Wisconsin by a single point in 2016.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 1:52 P.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  The United States and South Korea agreed to revise a trade pact sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald Trump, Seoul said on Monday, with U.S. automakers winning improved market access and Korean steelmakers hit with quotas but avoiding hefty tariffs.The planned changes in the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) were seen as limited, leaving South Korea's key passenger car exports untouched and helping soothe fears that Trump's tough approach could start a spiraling global trade war.In April, Trump told Reuters he would either renegotiate or terminate what he called a "horrible" trade deal that has doubled the U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea since 2012.Asian shares steadied on Monday, stemming last week's hefty losses after Trump's action on steel and aluminum, and his plans to slap tariffs on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods.AdvertisementThe agreement means South Korea will be forced to cut its steel exports to the U.S. by 30 percent of the past three years' average, in exchange for becoming the first U.S. ally to receive an indefinite exemption on steel tariffs imposed by Trump.Advertisement"We had heated discussions," South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said at a media briefing in Seoul. "The latest agreement removed two uncertainties," he said, referring to steel tariff exemptions and KORUS renegotiation.The U.S. Trade Representative's office in Washington did not respond on Monday morning to requests for comment on the announcements in Seoul. But White House trade adviser Peter Navarro told CNBC television, "It looks like we're going to have a very, very good result" from the negotiations with South Korea.Last week, Trump temporarily excluded six trade partners, including Canada, Mexico and the European Union from import duties of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, which came into effect on Friday.South Korea has received a quota of about 2.68 million tonnes of steel exports, or 70 percent of the annual average Korean steel exports to the United States between 2015-2017, which will be exempt from the new tariffs, the ministry said in a statement.South Korea is not allowed to export steel products exceeding that quota to the U.S. market, a ministry official said."This leaves a bad precedent of exchanging steel tariffs - which is a breach of international trade law - for a legitimate free trade agreement, in negotiations," said Wonmog Choi, professor of law at Ewha Womans University.TRADE WAR FEARSSouth Korea is the third-largest steel exporter to the United States and the world's top importer of Chinese steel, leading to concerns it was a conduit for China's excess capacity.AdvertisementTrump was elected in 2016 after promising to punish what he saw as unfair trade practices by other countries, particularly China.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While Trump was adamant the KORUS deal needed renegotiating, the trade spat risked undermining relations between Seoul and Washington at a crucial time, as Washington and Seoul work closely to try to contain a nuclear-armed North Korea."We are at a time when U.S.-South Korea cooperation is needed more than ever ahead of the inter-Korean summit and the summit between North Korea and the United States," said a senior official at South Korea's presidential Blue House, who was not authorized to speak to media.South Korean officials said that while the deal agreed was the best they could hope for, further pressure on trade was likely under Trump's presidency.Shares in South Korean steelmakers rallied on Monday, with Dongbu Steel leading gains as tariff exemptions were confirmed.U.S. shares also climbed on Monday after steep falls last week as fears of a U.S.-China trade war eased on news that U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer were negotiating to resolve difference with their Chinese counterparts.AUTOS CONCESSIONAs part of the KORUS revision, the countries agreed to extend U.S. tariffs on Korean pickup trucks by 20 years until 2041.No South Korean automakers currently export pickup trucks to the United States, but Hyundai Motor said last year it planned to launch a model there to catch up with a shift away from sedans.Hyundai said on Monday it was "too early to elaborate on the details such as the estimated timing of the model release and production location". Its shares fell 1.3 percent.AdvertisementUnder KORUS revisions, U.S. automakers will be able to bring into South Korea 50,000 vehicles per automaker per year that meet U.S. safety standards, not necessarily Korean standards, up from 25,000 vehicles previously.Kim said no automakers previously exceeded the 25,000-vehicle threshold. Ford Motor Co and General Motors each shipped fewer than 10,000 vehicles last year."I don't see a high chance of automakers expanding U.S. imports," he said.(Additional reporting by Christine Kim in Seoul and David Lawder in Washington; Editing by Lincoln Feast and James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 2, 2018, 8:09 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on Deadspin video illustrating Sinclair stations' messaging (all times local):8:05 p.m.A Sinclair executive says he finds it curious that the company would be attacked for asking news people to remind the audience that unsubstantiated stories exist on social media.Scott Livingston, Sinclair's senior vice president of news, responded Monday to backlash the broadcasting company has received following the rapid spread of a video showing anchors at its stations reading a script criticizing "fake" news stories.Livington calls it "ironic" that the company would "be attacked for messages promoting our journalistic initiative for fair and objective reporting."Sinclair owns nearly 200 local stations, and a video released by Deadspin over the weekend illustrated many of their anchors saying they were concerned about a "troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country." Deadspin said the anchors looked like hostages recording videos to prove they are alive.Advertisement___10:40 a.m.President Trump is jumping to the defense of the Sinclair Broadcast Group, which is under fire following the rapid spread of a video showing anchors at its stations across the country reading a script criticizing "fake" news stories.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump tweeted Monday that it was funny to watch "Fake News Networks" criticizing Sinclair for being biased. The president singled out CNN and NBC.Sinclair owns nearly 200 local stations, and a video released by Deadspin over the weekend illustrated many of their anchors saying they were concerned about a "troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country." Deadspin said the anchors looked like hostages recording videos to prove they are alive.AdvertisementThere has been no immediate comment from Sinclair.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 10:18 A.M. E.D.T.
ACCRA, Ghana —  Rallying behind the slogan of "Ghana First," thousands of people in the West African nation have protested a new defense cooperation deal with the United States. Many in the longtime U.S. ally say they worry the expanded military presence could attract extremists and harm their country's sovereignty.The protests in Ghana are another signal of discontent in Africa with the Trump administration as its counterterror efforts across the continent grow.The defense agreement ratified by Ghana's Parliament last week, and boycotted by opposition lawmakers, gives the U.S. military unimpeded access to facilities including Ghana's airport runways and allows the U.S. to deploy troops there.The protests have prompted the U.S. ambassador to reject rumors of a U.S. military base and say "We have nothing to hide."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 10:36 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration said Tuesday it has widened U.S. access to South Korea's car market while providing American manufacturers protection from South Korean imports.The United States and South Korea have reached an agreement to overhaul the six-year-old U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, senior administration officials said, confirming an announcement earlier Monday in Seoul. President Donald Trump had called the original Korea pact a job killer.The new deal doubles — to 50,000 — the cars each U.S. automaker can export annually to South Korea, reduces bureaucratic barriers to American products and extends a 25 percent U.S. tariff on South Korean pickup trucks by 20 years, through 2041.South Korea escapes America's new 25 percent tariff on imported steel — but must accept quotas on steel exports equal to 70 percent of its average annual shipments to the United States between 2015 and 2017.AdvertisementThe officials spoke on condition of anonymity in order to discuss the policy ahead of an official announcement.AdvertisementThe United States this month began imposing the steel tariffs, saying imports jeopardized U.S. national security. But it has been suspending the duties on allies like the European Union, Canada and Mexico.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The U.S. Treasury Department is also in talks on a deal to prevent Seoul from deliberately pushing its currency lower to give South Korean exporters a competitive advantage. A formal agreement on currency would be unprecedented — but it wouldn't have teeth, because it would include no enforcement mechanism.The U.S. trade deficit in goods with South Korea — nearly $23 billion last year — widened after the original pact took effect in 2012, one reason Trump has denounced it. Trade in autos has been especially lopsided: South Korea last year exported to the United States 929,000 passenger vehicles worth $15.7 billion. By contrast, the U.S. shipped to South Korea fewer than 53,000 autos, worth just $1.5 billion, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.The United States says South Korea has used non-tariff barriers, such as rigorous customs inspections, to block U.S. products.Trump's complaints about South Korean trade practices have caused friction between the two allies at a crucial time, as he prepares for a meeting with North Korea's reclusive leader, Kim Jong Un.Unions at South Korea's two-largest automakers, Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia Motors Corp., have already blasted the new agreement for blocking access to the fast-growing U.S. pickup truck market. "It is a humiliating deal that accepts Trump's strategy to preemptively block South Korean pickup trucks," Hyundai Motor Company's labor union said in a statement.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 9:13 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIJING —  China's commerce ministry said on Wednesday it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed U.S. tariffs following the Section 301 probe and will take counter measures, according to the official Xinhua news agency.The response follows a move by the Trump administration on Tuesday to slap 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing's intellectual property practices.The Ministry of Commerce (MofCom) said it "will soon take measure of equal intensity and scale against U.S. goods.""We have the confidence and ability to respond to any protectionist measures by the United States," said MofCom.AdvertisementThe U.S. Trade Representative's (USTR) office target list is broad and includes products from military shotguns to sewing machines.AdvertisementThe USTR list follows China's imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruit, nuts and pork to protest new U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs imposed last month by U.S. President Donald Trump.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The findings of the US Section 301 investigation are a willful distortion of facts and full of selective assertions and allegations," said Zhang Xiangchen, Beijing's ambassador to the World Trade Organization.The investigation was made on Chinese imports under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."What Washington truly wishes is not a trade war, but to intimidate China by wielding the baton," said an editorial in the Global Times paper."The latest U.S. measures against China carry a sense of containment, which purportedly is commonplace among U.S. politicians," it added.The widely-read state run Global Times is run by the ruling Communist Party's official People's Daily, although its stance does not necessarily equate with Chinese government policy.(Reporting by Cheng Fang, Ryan Woo, Ben Blanchard and Tony Munroe in Beijing and Engen Tham in Shanghai; Writing by Engen Tham; Editing by Sam Holmes)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressJERUSALEM — Israel's defense minister has thanked the United States for including a "record-breaking" $705 million to aid the country's missile defense in the spending bill passed last week.Avigdor Lieberman said Monday that the aid will be used for the development of Israel's multi-layered system, which is designed to shoot down short-range rockets from Gaza and Lebanon and counter long-range threats like that posed by Iran.The U.S. provides $3.1 billion in military aid to Israel each year under a 10-year security arrangement. The $705 million is a separate allocation, and is up from the $600 million provided for missile defense last year.U.S. President Donald Trump signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill on Friday that provides billions in new funding for the military and national security.AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 3:32 A.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL, South Korea —  South Korea has agreed to further open its auto market to the United States as the two countries prepare to amend their six-year-old trade agreement following complaints by President Donald Trump.South Korea's top trade negotiator said Monday that the revised agreement calls for delaying the earlier agreed-to elimination of tariffs on South Korean-made pick-up trucks to 2041 from 2021.The U.S. side agreed that annual exports of up to 2.7 million tons of South Korean steel products will be exempted from recently announced 25 percent tariffs.The auto sector is among the most contentious issues in South Korea's trade dealings with the U.S. Yet, the revised agreement will likely have little immediate impact on South Korea's exports to the United States. Nor is it likely to have much impact on U.S. exports to South Korea.AdvertisementWhile South Korea made some concessions to U.S. demands on the key auto trade issues, the revision of the free trade pact aligns with South Korea's own interests, experts said.AdvertisementSouth Korean negotiators managed to avoid changes in treatment of its agriculture sector, a highly sensitive area in domestic politics."Overall, it's a relief," said Cheong Inkyo, a professor of international trade at Inha University in Incheon, South Korea. "The United States achieved most of its goal while we made some concessions in the auto sector. But the outcome falls within our  national interest."South Korea's Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said although the United States will end 25 percent tariffs on South Korean-made pick-up trucks 20 years later than earlier planned, no local auto companies export pick-up trucks made in South Korea to the United States.Conversely, South Korea agreed to allow the number of U.S.-made vehicles to be imported without being subject to local safety regulations to double to 50,000 a year. However, no American car brand sold more than 10,000 vehicles in South Korea last year.South Korea also will ease emission standards for American cars shipped from 2021-2025, when the Asian country is due to set new import regulations.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.South Korean automakers did not comment on the postponement of eliminating tariffs on their trucks. The Korean Automobile Manufacturers Association praised the government's efforts to protect South Korean automakers and avoid major changes on sensitive issues such as adjusting tariffs.The third-largest steel exporter to the United States after Canada and Brazil, South Korea was among 12 countries whose exports of steel and aluminum Trump recently said would be hit with heavy tariffs.While the country won a steel tariff exemption, it is still subject to a quota of about 2.7 million tons of steel products a year, about 74 percent of its exports in 2017.AdvertisementSouth Korean steel companies said had wanted a larger quota of tariff-free exports to the United States."But the result that South Korea would be exempted means that the United States considers South Korea as its main ally and we believe that it would pave the way for good results in future negotiations," the Korea Iron & Steel Association said in a statement.The agreements in principle were announced Monday just hours after Trump said Friday that the United States was on the verge of revising its trade agreement with South Korea, which took effect in 2012.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said he hoped a final agreement with Seoul would be announced next week.The two allies started discussing how to amend the free trade pact in August after Trump blamed it for causing the U.S. trade deficit with South Korea.The United States ran a $10.3 billion trade deficit with South Korea last year.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 10:15 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys said on Monday it is suspending all advertising on Facebook Inc following concerns of data privacy, joining internet company Mozilla Corp in pulling ads from the social networking site.The decision follows allegations that a political consultancy gained inappropriate access to data on 50 million Facebook users to build profiles on American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016."We are concerned about the issues surrounding Facebook and have decided to suspend all media on the platform until the facts are out and corrective actions have been taken," Pep Boys chief marketing officer Danielle Porto Mohn said in a statement.(This version of the story was corrected to change the company description to auto parts retailer from tire maker)(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 8:24 A.M. E.D.T.
RAMALLAH, West Bank —  In a story March 26 about German diplomatic efforts in the Middle East, The Associated Press misspelled the last name of Germany's new foreign minister, Heiko Maas. A corrected version of the story is below:German FM urges Palestinians 'not to tear down bridges'Germany's foreign minister says the new government remains committed to two-state solution, urges Palestinians "not to tear down bridges"RAMALLAH, West Bank (AP) — Germany's new foreign minister on Monday urged the Palestinians "not to tear down bridges," an apparent reference to President Mahmoud Abbas' contentious relationship with the U.S. and political rival Hamas.Heiko Maas also acknowledged differences with Israel about the international community's nuclear deal with Iran, but gave no commitment to altering the deal ahead of a mid-May deadline set by President Donald Trump.Maas was on his first trip to the Middle East since becoming foreign minister earlier this month.Meeting Palestinian leaders in Ramallah, he said the new German government remains committed to a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.AdvertisementThe Trump administration has refused to make such a commitment. In December, President Donald Trump recognized contested Jerusalem as Israel's capital, prompting Abbas to rule out the U.S. as a future Mideast broker.AdvertisementMaas said Monday that peace efforts without the U.S. "would be difficult."Meanwhile, months-long efforts to sideline Hamas in Gaza through a deal with Abbas appear to have collapsed after a Gaza bombing narrowly missed Abbas' prime minister this month.Later in Jerusalem, Maas professed his country's friendship with Israel, despite differences over the two-state solution, which Netanyahu no longer endorses, and the Iranian nuclear issue.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Our views differ, but first and foremost we are friends," he said. "We want to hear from our friends their concerns and fears, and therefore I have come here."Netanyahu has been an outspoken critic of the 2015 nuclear deal, and urged the international community to "fix it or nix it." He says the deal does not have sufficient safeguards to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons.Given Trump's mid-May deadline, U.S. negotiators have been working with Britain, France and Germany on a follow-on pact that would address Trump's three major complaints. Trump wants to penalize Iran for ballistic missiles, which weren't part of the original deal. He also wants to expand access for international nuclear inspectors and prolong the limits on Iran's nuclear activity, currently scheduled to expire in several years.Maas has said he was profoundly affected by the Holocaust, and his agenda included a meeting with Israeli Holocaust survivors and a visit to Israel's Holocaust memorial, Yad Vashem."As a German this was a very moving visit," he said, professing his opposition to anti-Semitism and praising the warm welcome he received. "I am moved as if I have received a gift that I do not deserve."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 12:17 A.M. E.D.T.
PALM BEACH, Fla. —  President Donald Trump has issued an order supporting his push to ban most transgender troops from serving in the U.S. military except under "limited circumstances." But the decision is expected to be the subject of an ongoing legal fight in the months ahead.The White House announced the decision late Friday, shortly after the president arrived at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, completing a process that followed Trump's surprise announcement on Twitter last year that he would reverse an Obama administration plan to allow transgender individuals to serve openly.In a memo to the president, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis pointed to "substantial risks" with allowing military personnel who seek to undertake a treatment to change their gender or who question their gender identity.Mattis also said exempting those in the military from "well-established mental health, physical health and sex-based standards" applying to all service members could hurt "military effectiveness and lethality." But the policy includes narrow exemptions allowing some transgender members to serve.AdvertisementThe Pentagon has not released data on the number of transgender people serving, but a Rand Corp. study previously estimated between 1,320 and 6,630, out of 1.3 million active-duty troops.AdvertisementSeveral legal challenges have blocked Trump's efforts to enact a ban, and four federal courts have already ruled against the ban. The Pentagon responded by allowing those serving to stay in the military, and began allowing transgender individuals to enlist beginning Jan. 1.Civil rights advocates said they would continue the legal fight, which could eventually reach the Supreme Court.Before the policy was announced on Friday, Maj. David Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said it would have no immediate practical effect on the military because the Pentagon is obliged to continue to recruit and retain transgender people in accordance with current law.HOW THE POLICY WORKSMattis wrote in the 48-page memo that U.S. troops who require or have already had gender reassignment surgery should be disqualified from military service.Service members with a history or diagnosis of "gender dysphoria," or those with discomfort with their biological sex, would also be banned — but with some exceptions.Current transgender service members who have not yet undergone reassignment surgery are allowed to remain in the military, as long as they have been medically stable for 36 consecutive months in their biological sex before joining the military and are able to deploy across the globe.It also allows currently serving service members to remain if they were diagnosed with gender dysphoria since the Obama administration's policy took effect and prior to the start of the new Trump policy. Those service members are allowed to serve in their preferred gender and receive medical treatment for gender dysphoria.AdvertisementTHE PATHWAY TO THE DECISIONDuring President Barack Obama's final year in office, the Pentagon announced it would allow transgender individuals to serve openly in the military and service members could not be discharged solely based on their gender identity.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The process was still under final review when Trump took office. Mattis announced in June 2017 that he would delay enacting the policy for six months while the military studied the issue.Trump in July 2017 declared on Twitter that the U.S. would not "accept or allow ... transgender individuals to serve in any capacity" in the military. The tweets caught the Pentagon off guard and were followed by the review of the policies.The president received recommendations from Mattis in February for dealing with transgender individuals serving in the military, leading to Friday's announcement.LEGAL CHALLENGESSeveral legal challenges to Trump's proposed ban are ongoing. At least four federal judges have refused to allow the ban to go into effect. Because of the injunctions, the Pentagon has been allowing transgender individuals to enlist since January.One of the forefronts of the legal fight is in California, where a federal judge rejected a Trump administration attempt to throw out a lawsuit asking for the ban to be voided. California's attorney general, Xavier Becerra, said Friday the state would "continue to vigorously defend the rights of transgender individuals."Lambda Legal and OutServe-SLDN, meanwhile, said they would seek a permanent injunction on Tuesday before a federal judge in Seattle.The Justice Department said in a statement late Friday that it would defend the Pentagon's authority to "implement personnel policies they have determined are necessary to best defend our nation" and would ask the courts to lift all related preliminary injunctions.REACTION TO TRUMP'S PLANThe response to the White House announcement has largely fallen along partisan lines, with Democrats and civil rights groups opposing the plan and Republicans and conservatives approving of it.AdvertisementHouse Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California called it a "hateful ban" aimed at humiliating transgender members of the military.Tony Perkins, president of the conservative group Family Research Council, said Trump had kept his pledge to "end the Obama era of social experimentation in our nation's military" and the policy would move the military away from "political correctness."__We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:23 P.M. E.D.T.
QUEBEC CITY —  The man accused in the slayings of six men at a Quebec City mosque has pleaded not guilty.Alexandre Bissonnette entered the pleas in a courtroom Monday ahead of pretrial motions to be debated this week.Bissonnette faces six charges of first-degree murder and six of attempted murder. More than 50 people were at the Islamic Cultural Centre in January 2017 when the shooting began during evening prayers on a Sunday.Those who monitor extremist groups in Quebec described the French-Canadian university student as someone who took extreme nationalist positions at Laval University and on social media. He was a supporter of French far-right leader Marine Le Pen and U.S. President Donald Trump.Quebec's premier previously acknowledged the French-speaking province has its "demons" in terms of attitudes toward Muslims.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 3, 2018, 8:02 P.M. E.D.T.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Wednesday:1. WHERE TRUMP WANTS TO SEND US TROOPSThe president says he favors using the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised border wall is built.2. 'EVERYBODY STARTED RUNNING'A woman opens fire at YouTube headquarters in northern California, setting off a panic among employees and wounding at least four people before fatally shooting herself.3. HOW SPIES MAY BE HARVESTING INTELThe U.S. government acknowledges the existence in Washington of what appear to be rogue devices that foreign spies could be using to intercept cellphone calls.4. FIRST PUNISHMENT HANDED DOWN IN MUELLER PROBEA Dutch attorney who lied to federal agents investigating former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort is sentenced to 30 days in prison.Advertisement5. WHAT'S ROILING PARTS OF EUROPEFor decades after World War II, racist, extremist and anti-Semitic views were considered taboo in public life. But today they are openly expressed by mainstream politicians.Advertisement6. AFTER BACKLASH, GOVERNMENT CHANGES ITS MINDThe Interior Department backs down from a plan to impose steep fee increases at popular national parks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.7. WHICH IPO IS ROUSING SUCCESSSpotify's opening act on Wall Street strikes a chord with investors betting on the unprofitable company's trend-setting music streaming service.8. DRUG-RESISTANT BACTERIA POSE GROWING THREAT"Nightmare bacteria" with unusual resistance to antibiotics of last resort were found more than 200 times in the U.S. last year.9. BILL COSBY'S LEGAL TEAM GETS LIFTThe judge rules that the defense at the entertainer's sex assault retrial can call a witness who says Cosby's accuser talked about framing a celebrity.10. WHO'S BRINGING NEW MOJO TO MASTERSThe power off the tee and sharpness with his short game make him look like the Tiger Woods of old. The smile suggests someone entirely different.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ERICA BERENSTEINMARCH 24, 2018
The banana wars were spats that escalated, tariff by tariff, into a decades-long dispute between the United States and the European Union.The Trump administration this week raised fears of a trade war after it authorized a series of tariffs explicitly — and implicitly — aimed at China.Tariffs, and the specter of trade wars, are nothing new.The United States and the European Union spent much of the 1990s fighting over bananas. Threats and tariffs flew back and forth across the Atlantic. What had started with a call for free trade in bananas by Costa Rica, in 1991, escalated into an all-out battle between two of the world’s economic superpowers.At the time, the so-called banana wars were seen as a test of the sustainability of the newly formed World Trade Organization, as Europe and the United States fought over whether Europe could give preferential treatment to bananas imported from former colonies in Africa, the Caribbean and Pacific regions.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 31, 2018, 9:50 P.M. E.D.T.
By Lawrence HurleyThe U.S. government's Supreme Court battle with Microsoft Corp over whether technology companies can be forced to hand over data stored overseas could be nearing its end, after federal prosecutors asked that the case be dismissed.President Donald Trump on March 22 signed a provision into law making it clear that U.S. judges can issue warrants for such data, while giving companies an avenue to object if the request conflicts with foreign law."This case is now moot," the U.S. Department of Justice said, citing the newly passed legislation, in a 16-page court filing on Friday that requested the dismissal.The Supreme Court on Feb. 27 heard arguments in the case, which had been one of the most closely watched of the high court's current term. Some justices urged Congress to pass a law to resolve the matter.AdvertisementMicrosoft and the Justice Department had been locked in a dispute over how U.S. prosecutors seek access to data held on overseas computer servers owned by American companies. The case involved Microsoft's challenge to a domestic warrant issued by a U.S. judge for emails stored on a Microsoft server in Dublin relating to a drug-trafficking investigation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The bipartisan new law, known as the Cloud Act, was supported by Microsoft, other major technology companies and the Trump administration. But civil liberties groups opposed it, saying it lacked sufficient privacy protections.AdvertisementMicrosoft, which has 100 data centers in 40 countries, was the first American company to challenge a domestic search warrant seeking data held outside the United States. The Microsoft customer whose emails were sought told the company he was based in Ireland when he signed up for his account.A representative for Microsoft did not immediately return requests for comment on the Justice Department's filing.(Reporting by Lawrence Hurley and Alex Dobuzinskis; Additional reporting by Dustin Volz; Editing by Will Dunham and Jonathan Oatis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25, 2018, 9:56 P.M. E.D.T.
WEST CHESTER, Pa. —  A Republican Pennsylvania congressman has announced that he will not seek re-election, boosting Democratic hopes of winning his House seat.U.S. Rep. Ryan Costello announced on Sunday that he would not be running, ending weeks of speculation about his future.During an appearance on MSNBC, the second-term congressman called it "the most difficult decision" he's ever had to make and said it was due to a number of factors including the state's new congressional map.Under the discarded map, Costello's suburban Philadelphia district had a Republican majority that nevertheless helped Clinton beat Trump there by 2 percentage points in 2016. The redrawn district has slightly more Democrats and Clinton would have won it by 9 percentage points.Costello was expected to face a tough election battle against Democrat Chrissy Houlahan.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byRevelations that digital consultants to the Trump campaign misused the data of millions of Facebook users set off a furor on both sides of the Atlantic. This is how The Times covered it.By Nicholas ConfessoreIn March, The New York Times, working with The Observer of London and The Guardian, obtained a cache of documents from inside Cambridge Analytica, the data firm principally owned by the right-wing donor Robert Mercer. The documents proved that the firm, where the former Trump aide Stephen K. Bannon was a board member, used data improperly obtained from Facebook to build voter profiles. The news put Cambridge under investigation and thrust Facebook into its biggest crisis ever. Here’s a guide to our coverage.March 17The Times reported that in 2014 contractors and employees of Cambridge Analytica, eager to sell psychological profiles of American voters to political campaigns, acquired the private Facebook data of tens of millions of users — the largest known leak in Facebook history. There was more. Our article first showed how Cambridge received warnings from its own lawyer, Laurence Levy, as it employed European and Canadian citizens on campaigns, potentially violating American election law. The Times also found that tranches of raw data still existed beyond Facebook’s control.Read how researchers may have used your Facebook “likes” to predict your political views.In a companion piece, The Times reported that people at Cambridge Analytica and its British affiliate, the SCL Group, were in contact with executives from Lukoil, the Kremlin-linked oil giant, as Cambridge built its Facebook-derived profiles. Lukoil was interested in the ways data was used to target American voters, according to two former company insiders. SCL and Lukoil denied that the talks were political in nature and said the oil giant never became a client.March 18The articles drew an instant response in Washington, where lawmakers demanded that Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, testify before Congress. Democrats looking into Russian interference in the 2016 election — already interested in Cambridge’s role in providing analytics to the Trump campaign — said they would seek an investigation into the leak. They were echoed by lawmakers in Britain investigating Cambridge Analytica’s role in disinformation and the country’s referendum to leave the European Union. March 20The Times reported that Cambridge suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after a British television channel released an undercover video in which he suggested that the company had used seduction and bribery to entrap politicians and influence foreign elections. In Washington, the Federal Trade Commission moved to investigate whether Facebook had violated an early agreement to safeguard user data. March 21The Times reported on a growing number of Facebook users, including the singer Cher, deleting their accounts — and broke news of the departure of Facebook’s top security official, who had clashed with other executives on how to handling discontent over the platform’s role in spreading disinformation. The hashtag #DeleteFacebook began trending on Twitter. After remaining silent for days — spurring another social media hashtag, #WheresZuck? — Mr. Zuckerberg spoke with The Times about steps Facebook was taking to address users’ anger.Our columnist Brian X. Chen explains how to protect your Facebook data.March 23As Facebook reeled, The Times delved into the relationship between Cambridge Analytica and John Bolton, the conservative hawk named national security adviser by President Trump. The Times broke the news that in 2014, Cambridge provided Mr. Bolton’s “super PAC” with early versions of its Facebook-derived profiles — the technology’s first large-scale use in an American election.What about 2016? We examined the skepticism and evidence around the role Cambridge claimed it played in Mr. Trump’s win.Cambridge Analytica helped develop ads for candidates supported by John Bolton's “super PAC.”March 24The Times and The Observer reported allegations that the 2016 “Brexit” campaign used a Cambridge Analytica contractor to help skirt election spending limits. The story implicated two senior advisers to Prime Minister Theresa May. Testifying to Parliament a few days later, a former Cambridge employee, Christopher Wylie, contended that the company helped swing the results in favor of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.March 28In another report, The Times showed how an employee at Palantir Technologies — an intelligence contractor founded by the Trump backer and tech investor Peter Thiel — helped Cambridge harvest Facebook data. The article reported that Palantir and Cambridge executives briefly considered a formal partnership to work on political campaigns. Though the deal fell through, a Palantir employee continued working with Cambridge to figure out how to obtain data for psychographic profiles. Palantir officials said the employee did so in a strictly personal capacity.April 4The Times originally reported that Cambridge harvested data from over 50 million Facebook users. But at the bottom of a company announcement about new privacy features, Facebook’s chief technology officer, Mike Schroepfer, issued a new estimate for the number of users who were affected: as many as 87 million, most of them in the United States.Facebook is responding to users’ distrust. Read how the company introduced a central privacy page. Nicholas Confessore is a New York-based political and investigative reporter at The Times and a writer-at-large at The Times Magazine, covering the intersection of wealth, power and influence in Washington and beyond. He joined The Times in 2004.  @nickconfessoreFacebookAdvertisementBy DAVE ITZKOFFMARCH 11, 2018
With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the best sketches. Looking for more stories about “S.N.L.”? We’ve got you covered. In a memorable comic turn on Saturday night, President Trump performed an impression of himself if he had been a conventional, strait-laced head of state; he hurled an obscenity at Chuck Todd, the host of “Meet the Press”; and he boasted that he knew what Oprah Winfrey’s weakness was. But enough about the president’s rally in western Pennsylvania.Forced to compete with this kind of reality — and minus the services of its resident Trump impersonator, Alec Baldwin — “Saturday Night Live” took some unusual cultural detours to arrive at its topical satire this weekend, in an episode hosted by Sterling K. Brown and featuring the musical guest James Bay.The show’s opening sketch seemed to promise a parody of the season finale of “The Bachelor,” the ABC reality series, from earlier this week, in which Arie Luyendyk Jr. first chose Becca Kufrin as his bride-to-be, then broke up with her and proposed to another contestant, Lauren Burnham. (As a consolation prize of sorts, Ms. Kufrin was named the star of “The Bachelorette” for a new season later this spring.)AdvertisementPlaying a “Bachelor” contestant named Becca K., the “S.N.L.” cast member Cecily Strong told the cameras, “The past few months have been such a whirlwind, but I finally feel like I’m in a place where I can see the future so clearly. I just want to get to the point where this is all over and life goes back to normal. I’m excited to see him.”Enter the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, played by Kate McKinnon in jowly prosthetic makeup. “How do I start this conversation?” she asked Strong.AdvertisementHaltingly, McKinnon added: “The reality is that, I don’t think that I can give you everything that you want right now. And I think that you sense that.”Strong asked her, “So, what, you don’t have Trump on collusion?”McKinnon replied, “I think I need to explore the possibility that I might have a stronger case with some other stuff.” She added: “I can’t commit to collusion right now.”The awkward breakup continued in a split-screen presentation (similar to the “Bachelor” finale), with Strong repeatedly leaving the room to calm herself down, only to return even more upset each time.“So I have to wait two more years for him to be out of office?” she asked.McKinnon answered, “Honestly, probably six.”Strong asked, “So Stormy Daniels, that’s nothing?”McKinnon responded, “No, I mean that’s definitely fun, it’s just, like, not what I’m doing.”In other highlights from the episode:The co-anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che collaborated on a run of jokes responding to the news that Trump plans to hold talks with North Korea in the spring.AdvertisementJost opened the segment by saying:In a stunning turn of events, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has agreed to meet in May with Donald Trump, or whoever’s president in May. Trump would be the first sitting U.S. president to meet with the leader of North Korea, and it’s also going to be the first time where both translators start every sentence with, ‘O.K., so what I think he said was — ’Che continued:Experts warn that the talks between Trump and Kim Jong-un could be risky, because, well, duh. Best-case scenario, they’ll realize they’re both crazy and become best friends like that movie “Step Brothers.” But more than likely, Donald Trump is going to realize that he’s just Twitter-crazy, and Kim Jong-un is crazy-crazy. And there’s a big ol’ difference. One guy trolls Oprah online, and the other guy murdered his uncle with a cannon.[ Want to watch a great movie on Amazon Prime but feeling a bit overwhelmed? Here are the 100 best movies on the streaming service. ]Mikey Day and Alex Moffat reprised their roles as Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, attempting to paper over the difficulties that their father’s presidency has recently encountered. Asked by Jost if the White House was in chaos, Day answered, “I know it’s played out, Colin, but fake news. You know, our father has a little nickname for you members of the elitist liberal media — ”“Goddamn Jews,” Moffat interjected excitedly before being admonished by Day.Later in the segment, Moffat was startled and then delighted by a pop-up book.Even if you’re not watching NBC’s popular cry-fest “This Is Us” — it has more than 10 million live viewers a week, you know — you can still appreciate the “S.N.L.” sendup “This Is U.S.,” a somewhat similar melodrama featuring members of the Trump administration, including Ben Carson (Brown), Sarah Huckabee Sanders (Aidy Bryant), Jared Kushner (Pete Davidson) and Kellyanne Conway (McKinnon).As a fake review from Entertainment Weekly promises, “You’ll be laughing through tears, except without the laughing. So I guess just regular crying.”If you’ve already forgotten the results of the Academy Awards, which feel like they occurred either last weekend or several months ago, “S.N.L.” offered a refresher in the form of a “Celebrity Family Feud” parody pitting Oscar winners against Oscar losers. It was basically an excuse for cast members to perform impressions of stars like Frances McDormand (McKinnon), Guillermo del Toro (Beck Bennett), Allison Janney (Heidi Gardner), Jordan Peele (Chris Redd), Sally Hawkins (Melissa Villaseñor) and Timothée Chalamet (Davidson).In a playfully meta moment, Kenan Thompson, playing the host Steve Harvey, told Redd that he was a big fan of “Key & Peele,” Peele’s show with Keegan-Michael Key from 2012 to 2015.Redd answered, “Well, sketch comedy is great, but at some point you have to move on, you know?”Thompson, who has been on “Saturday Night Live” since 2003, took a moment to respond. “You do?” he asked.Redd replied, “Yeah, after a few years, you’ve just got to do something more artistic.”Seeming to slip out of character, Thompson asked, “How many years?”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 2, 2018, 4:11 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON/SAN FRANCISCO —  The U.S. Justice Department sued California over a state law that aims to stop the Trump administration from selling or transferring federal lands to private corporations, hitting the state with yet another legal challenge.The lawsuit, filed in federal court on Monday in Sacramento, the state capital, comes less than a month after the Justice Department brought a legal action targeting three California laws largely aimed at protecting illegal immigrants from deportation."California has once again passed an extreme statute found in no other state to obstruct the federal government, this time by interfering with the conveyance of federal land," the Justice Department's acting No. 3 official, Jesse Panuccio, told reporters.California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement that his office is prepared to protect the state's resources.Advertisement"Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder," Becerra said.Governor Jerry Brown accused the Trump administration last month of declaring war on the most populous U.S. state after the Justice Department sued over the California immigration laws. A hearing in that case is set for June.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The latest legal action involves California's Senate Bill 50, which was signed into law in October and gives the state right of first refusal over many federal land conveyances.If the California State Lands Commission waives its right of first refusal, it issues a compliance certificate. Without this document, the land transfer cannot be legally recorded in a county property office.AdvertisementThe Justice Department in its lawsuit argues that Senate Bill 50 is preempted by federal law.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Additional reporting by Dan Levine in San Francisco; Editing by Leslie Adler and Steve Orlofsky)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 24, 2018, 9:11 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Guest lineups for the Sunday TV news shows:ABC's "This Week" — Mark Kelly, co-founder of Giffords: Courage to Fight Gun Violence; Ret. Adm. Mike Mullen, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Stephen Hadley, former national security adviser.___NBC's "Meet the Press" — Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va.; Corey Lewandowksi, former presidential campaign manager for Donald Trump.___CBS' "Face the Nation" — Warner; Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa; Marjory Stoneman Douglas students Jaclyn Corin, Ryan Deitsch and Kyle Kashuv.___CNN's "State of the Union" — Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va.; Gov. John Kasich, R-Ohio.___"Fox News Sunday" — Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin; March for Our Lives organizer Cameron Kasky; Marjory Stoneman Douglas student Delaney Tarr; Karen Pence, wife of Vice President Mike Pence, and daughter Charlotte Pence.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander BurnsLORAIN, Ohio — President Trump’s decree placing punitive tariffs on foreign steel raised an outcry in Washington: Republican leaders in Congress warned darkly of a market-rattling trade war. Many Democrats echoed their discomfort, saying Mr. Trump’s broad edict threatened global commerce.But Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, offered unreserved applause. Having lobbied the administration in public letters and private meetings to go after Chinese steel imports, he hailed Mr. Trump’s announcement Thursday as a breakthrough. “For far too long,” he said in a statement, “Chinese cheating has shuttered steel plants across our state and put Ohioans out of work.”If Mr. Brown was a rare supportive voice on tariffs in Congress, his stance was more familiar at home. A veteran critic of pacts like the North American Free Trade Agreement, Mr. Brown, with his limited embrace of Mr. Trump, reflected the political culture of the industrial Midwest and the survival strategy he has pioneered for Democrats there. The president captured Ohio by a resounding margin in 2016, defeating Hillary Clinton by eight percentage points while winning narrowly in neighboring Pennsylvania and Michigan. Democrats now hold only one high office in Ohio — Mr. Brown’s.As Mr. Brown seeks a third term in 2018, it is his brand of indignant populism setting the tone for Democrats in Ohio, where the governorship and several congressional seats are also up for grabs. Long a crucial swing state, Ohio may now be the most vital proving ground for a progressive economic message in Trump country. Democrats there have adopted a rallying cry that echoes both Mr. Trump’s rhetoric and traditional union-hall populism, assailing Wall Street banks and multinational corporations for exploiting workers and accusing Washington of colluding in their perfidy.Amplifying that appeal, Democratic leaders have settled on Richard A. Cordray, the former director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, as their favored candidate for governor. Mr. Cordray, a former state attorney general who played a high-profile watchdog role in Washington, has drawn forceful support in a Democratic primary from unions like the Ohio Federation of Teachers and the Ohio A.F.L.-C.I.O., as well as Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who devised the bank regulating agency Mr. Cordray led.Unlike endangered Senate Democrats in deeper-red states, Mr. Brown, 65, has opposed virtually all Republican-backed policies in Congress, including a new measure loosening bank regulations that is supported by a dozen Democratic senators. Outside of trade, Mr. Brown said in an interview, he sees no evidence that Mr. Trump “stands with workers.” But the senator mainly fixed his criticism on a specific target — “interest groups and Wall Street influences in Washington.”A full list of elections for the House and Senate, including which races matter most for congressional control.“The Republican establishment has captured the government,” Mr. Brown said. “When it comes to what they’re really trying to do every day, it’s the bidding of the billionaire Republican establishment — of Wall Street, of the drug companies, of the gun lobby.”Both national parties have a great deal at stake in Ohio. For Republicans, the 2018 elections are a test of their ascendancy across the Midwest, and whether Mr. Trump’s appeal to working-class white voters might lift others on the right. He carried a majority of union households in Ohio, sundering the on-and-off alliance of African-American voters with white union members that has periodically delivered the state to Democrats.Ohio Republicans are fielding a formidable if somewhat ungainly ticket, mimicking the national partnership of old-school Republicans and Trump-style insurgents. The state party has backed Mike DeWine, a low-key former senator who is Ohio’s attorney general, for governor, and Representative Jim Renacci, a more combative Trump ally, for Senate. Mr. Renacci, a wealthy auto dealer, had been battling Mr. DeWine for the nomination for governor, but switched to the Senate race after an appeal from the White House.Among national Democrats, Ohio is an urgent priority for reasons both symbolic and practical. Victories in 2018 could help them contest the state in 2020, and winning the governorship could give Democrats a hand in the drawing of congressional maps. Prominent Democratic leaders are already sketching out visits. Ms. Warren has raised money with Mr. Brown and plans to campaign for Mr. Cordray, and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has committed to hosting a fund-raising event for Mr. Brown soon, and will campaign extensively in Ohio next fall, people briefed on their plans said.For Democrats like Ms. Warren and Mr. Biden, the state is an inviting arena to deliver a more pointed message on economic inequality than the one Democrats are likely to deploy in the areas most crucial to control of the House. In their quest to pick up 24 seats, congressional Democrats have focused heavily on courting moderate, suburban voters who dislike Mr. Trump, and for whom issues like trade and union rights are remote considerations.But Michael Podhorzer, political director of the national A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that in Ohio, the Democrats’ paramount goal had to be reversing the lurch of working-class whites toward the Republican Party. He said union members have edged away from Mr. Trump in polling conducted by labor groups, but Democrats must overcome skepticism that they “are real on populist issues.”“It’s a state that is very suspicious of Democrats on economic issues,” Mr. Podhorzer said. “How things turn out is going to be a real indicator of whether Ohio’s going to be a battleground state in 2020.”The Democrats’ determination to reassemble a blue-collar coalition was on display recently in Lorain, a once industrial town about 30 miles west of Cleveland, where Mr. Cordray, 58, pitched himself to a crowd of labor officials arrayed in wooden chairs in a fluorescent-lit hall. Mr. Trump fought Mrs. Clinton to a draw in Lorain County in 2016; President Barack Obama carried it by about 15 points in 2012.Introduced to the crowd as a warrior against Wall Street, Mr. Cordray called the governorship a platform to “fight back for working people” and pledged to battle the Republican-controlled Legislature on union rights and defend Ohio’s still-contested Medicaid expansion. In an interview, he said Democrats had erred in 2016 by allowing themselves to be seen as a party of the status quo.“People do want somebody who will fight for them,” said Mr. Cordray, who vowed to compete not just in big cities, but also in the “middle-sized towns around Ohio where they feel things moving gradually away from them and nobody seems to care.”A soft-spoken lawyer, Mr. Cordray acknowledged that he had to reintroduce himself to Ohio after seven years in the Obama administration. In a sign of his campaign’s national import, Mr. Cordray met with Mr. Obama in Washington late last fall, after stepping down from the consumer bureau. Mr. Cordray said the former president had been “encouraging” of his campaign.Mr. Obama has not yet issued an endorsement, and while several Democrats have dropped out of the race to back Mr. Cordray, he must overcome a rowdy set of Democratic rivals in a May primary election. The former Representative Dennis Kucinich, 71, a freewheeling firebrand who has aligned himself at times with both Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, appears to be his most nettlesome foe.Republicans, however, are girding for Mr. Cordray. Mr. DeWine, still facing a challenger on the right, has begun swiping at Mr. Cordray, lumping him with a cadre of Democrats that he says mismanaged the state. Wagering that Ohioans are mostly happy with the state’s direction, Mr. DeWine is presenting himself as a steady hand.“We can’t go back to the days of Ted Strickland and Richard Cordray,” Mr. DeWine warned last month at a local party dinner in Clinton County, northeast of Cincinnati, linking Mr. Cordray with an unpopular former governor.But Mr. DeWine, 71, also allowed in an interview that Ohioans remain restless even after years of Republican dominance. “There’s still a feeling of dissatisfaction, I think, with government,” he said, adding that the mood had helped elect Mr. Trump.Whether Mr. Trump can again bend that dissatisfaction to Republicans’ advantage could seal their prospects in Ohio. In the Senate race, Mr. Renacci, 59, has staked his campaign on his relationship with the president and attacked Mr. Brown for opposing Mr. Trump’s tax cuts. Both he and the president, Mr. Renacci said in an interview, “want to make sure Ohio is great again.”But the tangled lines of populist politics could complicate that blunt partisan argument: Where Mr. Brown endorsed the Trump tariffs, Mr. Renacci has been more equivocal, calling them a work in progress.At a union hall in Dayton last month, Mr. Brown found an audience seemingly friendly both to Mr. Trump and his own campaign. Addressing a Teamsters local about the union’s pension crisis, Mr. Brown was introduced by a pair of labor activists who borrowed from the president’s message to suggest Washington had overlooked them in favor of other vulnerable groups. “We’re dreamers, too,” declared Rita Lewis, a prominent Teamsters activist who is close to Mr. Brown. “We’re not illegal aliens. We’re American citizens.”Mr. Brown addressed the group in a confiding tone, hunched over a lectern and upbraiding Washington for siding too often with banks over workers. As Mr. Brown worked the crowd afterward, Greg Thompson, a Teamsters member from Akron, explained that he voted for Mr. Trump because of his stance on trade, but these days considered Mr. Brown a more reliable ally.“I don’t know what to think of the president,” said Mr. Thompson, 69. “He talks out of both sides of his mouth.”As for Mr. Brown, Mr. Thompson said, “We’re 100 percent behind him.”AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 8:50 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - A federal judge in Washington issued an injunction on Friday preventing the Trump administration from interfering with the ability of undocumented teenagers in U.S. custody to have abortions or obtain abortion-related services.U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan also certified a class action of similar minor children to challenge the administration's policy.The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services'(HHS)  Office of Refugee Resettlement ("ORR") had last March adopted a policy prohibiting federally funded shelters from taking "any action that facilitates" abortions without approval from its director.But the judge said a preliminary injunction was appropriate while the matter is litigated because the plaintiffs had shown a "strong likelihood of success on the merits" of their claim that enforcing the policy would pose an unconstitutional "undue burden" on obtaining abortions.AdvertisementChutkan said ORR is "certainly entitled to maintain an interest in fetal life," but cannot strip undocumented teenagers of "their right to make their own reproductive choices."AdvertisementThe government can appeal.HHS did not immediately respond to a request for comment after business hours.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Brigitte Amiri, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union representing the teenagers, said: "It is a relief that the court blocked the Trump Administration's cruel policy of interfering with and obstructing access to abortions for unaccompanied immigrant minors."Chutkan had in December ordered HHS to let two undocumented immigrants, both aged 17, in federal custody have abortions, but put her order on hold to allow a government appeal.According to court papers, several hundred pregnant undocumented teenagers have been in U.S. custody in each of the last four years.The case is Garza v Hargan, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, No. 17-02122.(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Sandra Maler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 26, 2018, 2:40 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The United States would like to have a cooperative relationship with Russia but actions like Moscow's "brazen" attack on a former Russian spy in Britain prevented that, the White House said on Monday."Our relationship with Russia is frankly up to the Russian government and up to Vladimir Putin and others in senior leadership in Russia," White House spokesman Raj Shah told a news briefing after the Trump administration ordered the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats."We want to have a cooperative relationship. The president wants to work with the Russians but their actions sometimes don't allow that to happen," Shah said. "The poisoning in the UK that has kind of led to today's announcement was a very brazen action. It was a reckless action."(Reporting by Roberta Rampton; Writing by David Alexander\; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSAPRIL 3, 2018, 10:07 P.M. E.D.T.
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico —  Mexican officials on Tuesday screened a dwindling group of hundreds of largely Central American migrants who are moving through Mexico toward the United States, seeking to break up the "caravan" that has drawn the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.Trump, doubling down on his tough stance against illegal immigration, has railed against those making their way from the Guatemala-Mexico border in the past 10 days.Trump repeated threats to torpedo the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which underpins much of Mexico's foreign trade, and said he wanted to send troops to the U.S. border to stop illegal immigrants until a long-promised border wall is built.In response, the Mexican government has said the migrants  are being vetted to determine whether they have a right to stay, or would be returned to their countries of origin.AdvertisementHundreds of men, women and children from Central America were stuck on Tuesday in the town of Matias Romero in the poor southern Mexican state of Oaxaca awaiting clarification of their legal status after officials began registering them.AdvertisementConfused and frustrated by paperwork, many were uncertain what lay in store, and desperate for information."What was the point of all this then if they don't let us stay?" Elizabeth Avalos, 23, a migrant from El Salvador who was travelling with two children, said angrily. "There's no food, my children haven't eaten since yesterday."Hundreds of people camped out overnight in a park near the town's train station, with shoes and bags strewn about.Jaime Alexander Variega, 35, sat alone in a patch of shade and cupped his head in his hands, weeping or praying, his feet  still bearing lacerations from walking for four or five days straight through Guatemala from El Salvador."We're not safe in El Salvador," said the former security guard, his hat smeared in dirt, explaining he had left his home because of the threats from local gangs. "I know it's difficult to get into the United States. But it's not impossible."Around them, Mexican migration officials with notepads and pens took basic information from the migrants, asking for names, nationalities, dates of birth and proof of identity.The caravan was organised by U.S-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which seeks to draw attention to the rights of migrants and provide them with aid. The Mexican government says the caravan, which like others travels by road, rail and on foot, has been organised every year since 2010.AdvertisementHonduran Carlos Ricardo Ellis Garcia clutched a handwritten list of names belonging to more than 100 people who joined the caravan in the southern border town of Tapachula, where it began on March 25, reaching a peak of around 1,500 people.But by Tuesday the number was down to about 1,100, according to Pueblo Sin Fronteras spokeswoman Gina Garibo.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many had broken off from the group, eager to move on more quickly, she said. Many others aimed to stay in Mexico because they had family ties there or planned to work, Garibo said."Now they're separating these groups," Ellis Garcia said, referring to an estimated 300 people who split from the caravan on Monday. "I don't know what's the deal, we have no answers."Advocacy groups told Reuters dozens of people left the caravan and travelled to the crime-ridden eastern state of Veracruz, where they were met by migration officials and police.The government said on Monday evening around 400 people in the caravan had already been sent back to their home countries.Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico's ambassador to the United States, told CNN that Mexican authorities were "looking at the status of the individuals so we can proceed either with a repatriation process" or offer humanitarian relief. That could include granting asylum or humanitarian visas.Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala are among the most violent and impoverished countries in the Americas, prompting many people to leave in search of a better life.Trump, who ran for office in 2016 on a platform to stem illegal immigrants from Mexico, said he had "told Mexico" he hoped it would halt the caravan.AdvertisementThe migrant caravan also poses a political problem for Mexico's unpopular government in a presidential election year.President Enrique Pena Nieto is barred by law from seeking re-election in the July 1 vote, but the ruling party candidate is running third, well behind the front-runner.The government does not want to be seen as kowtowing to threats by Trump, who is deeply unpopular in Mexico.In a country where millions of people have friends or relatives who have migrated legally or illegally to the United States, many Mexicans harbour sympathy for the Central Americans.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Additional reporting by Lizbeth Diaz, Diego Ore and Daina Solomon; Editing by Dave Graham and Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 9:00 P.M. E.D.T.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Thursday:1. WHO'S LATEST CABINET MEMBER HEADING FOR EXITTrump fires Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin in the wake of a bruising ethics scandal and a mounting rebellion within his own agency.2. ECONOMY'S WHEELS SPIN FASTERU.S. GDP grew at a solid 2.9 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, a sharp upward revision that caps three quarters of the fastest growth in more than a decade.3. PRESSURE ON PRESIDENT RAMPS UPPorn actress Stormy Daniels wants Trump to answer her attorney's questions under oath about a pre-election payment aimed at keeping her quiet about their alleged tryst.4. WHERE BIZARRE ATTACK TOOK PLACEBritish police say that the Russian ex-spy and his daughter left critically ill in a nerve agent attack were probably poisoned at the front door of their home in southwestern England.Advertisement5. HELP FOR ENDANGERED WHALE ON WAYCanada is establishing a permanent speed limit in the Gulf of St. Lawrence in hopes of protecting the highly endangered North Atlantic right whale.Advertisement6. WHAT'S RAISING PRIVACY CONCERNSSome 60 companies including such leading brands as Subway, Sprint and the NFL are joining forces to help each other follow you around online.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.7. 'A TRUE SURPRISE'Unseen mysterious dark matter is supposed to be 28 percent of the universe — but astronomers have found a strange galaxy where there is no dark matter.8. ASSANGE LOSES INTERNET CONNECTIONEcuador's government is cutting off the WikiLeaks founder's communications outside the nation's embassy in London.9. WHICH REBOOT OPENED BIGViewers were eager to see ABC's reboot of "Roseanne," with an estimated 18.4 million tuning in to the show's debut.10. PLAY BALL!The major league baseball season is getting underway. The Houston Astros will take the field as World Series champions for the first time.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:27 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The NAACP is spearheading a lawsuit filed Wednesday against the Census Bureau and President Donald Trump, saying the federal government is unprepared for the 2020 Census, and that will lead to a massive undercounting of African-Americans.The group wants a federal judge to oversee the Census Bureau's plan to avoid an undercount for minority communities.The lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in Maryland contends that understaffing, inadequate funding and the use of on-line forms will exacerbate historic undercounts for communities of color."As we continued to look at past undercounts and the Census Bureau's preparations for 2020, we came to the conclusion we were witnessing a train wreck in the making," said Bradford Berry, general counsel for the NAACP.AdvertisementThe decennial census is required by the Constitution and used to determine the number of seats each state has in the House, as well as how federal money is distributed to local communities.AdvertisementBerry said his organization has been working with the Yale Law School Rule of Law Clinic on concerns about the 2020 Census. They used the Freedom of Information Act to obtain records from the Commerce Department about its preparations.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Prince George's County, Maryland, joined in the lawsuit. Its elected leaders said the county stands to lose critical federal funds and voting power if the 2020 Census takes place without major changes. Blacks make up a majority of the county's population.The 2010 Census undercounted 2.1 percent of the black population nationally and 1.5 percent of the Hispanic population, according to a Census Bureau estimate.The lawsuit has been months in the making and is separate from efforts being taken in states, including California, New York and New Jersey, to prevent a citizenship question from being included in the decennial census. The Census Bureau did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the NAACP's lawsuit.Lawmakers on Capitol Hill have also expressed concerns in recent months about the Census Bureau's preparation for the 2020 count, and recently passed legislation to increase spending at the agency by $1.3 billion this fiscal year. That's double what the Trump administration had requested, and GOP lawmakers said the bump would allow for adequate preparation for the decennial census.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 6:00 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  A U.S. senator asked the National Rifle Association on Tuesday to turn over detailed internal records about foreign funding it received in the past three years and how it spent that money, including whether any of it went toward influencing American elections, according to a copy of the letter delivered to the powerful gun group's top lawyer.Sen. Ron Wyden, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, released his request a week after NRA general counsel John Frazer acknowledged that the tax-exempt nonprofit receive some foreign funding.Frazer said in a March 19 letter to Wyden's office that while some of that money was transferred between NRA accounts, none of it has gone toward influencing U.S. elections or political campaigns.Under U.S. law, foreign entities aren't allowed to influence U.S. elections.Wyden also asked for more information, including internal metrics, about foreign money used by the NRA for media campaigns or other efforts that were consumed by the public.AdvertisementThe back-and-forth comes after McClatchy, citing anonymous sources, reported in January that federal investigators were probing whether an ally of Russia's president gave to the group to support Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That prompted a left-leaning advocacy group to file a complaint with the Federal Election Commission.AdvertisementThe Associated Press has not confirmed the McClatchy report.The NRA did not immediately respond to a message seeking comment Tuesday on Wyden's letter. In his response to Wyden last week, Frazer said the NRA "has strong policies and practices to ensure that we raise and spend our funds within the bounds of the law."Trump campaigned as an advocate for gun owners' rights and the group poured some $30 million into his campaign.Congressional investigators determined that Donald Trump Jr. met with a Russian government official at the group's 2016 annual meeting but "found no evidence that the two discussed the U.S. presidential election," according to the House Intelligence Committee's report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Henry OlsenMr. Olsen is the editor of the “Flyover Country” section at Unherd.comWith Democrats winning in normally deep red places like Alabama and Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District, it looks like a blue wave is swelling for the midterm elections.There’s still time for Republicans to change that, but first they must figure out how to mount an effective defense. To do that, they need to focus on a largely overlooked group of voters: Donald Trump voters who did not like him.According to the 2016 exit polls, 18 percent of Americans did not like either Mr. Trump or Hillary Clinton. Mr. Trump owes his victory to the fact that he beat her among this group by a 17-point margin, 47 percent to 30 percent (the remainder voted for a third party or write-in candidate). Multiplying Mr. Trump’s percentage among this group by the group’s share of the electorate yields a startling fact: Nearly one-fifth of all Trump voters didn’t like him.This is a shockingly high share; it goes a long way toward explaining why places that voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 could be voting against Republicans in 2018. The president’s job-approval rating remains historically weak, in the low 40s, only a few points higher than his humble favorability rating was on Election Day.Both exit polls in 2017 and analysis of recent generic congressional ballot polls — which indicate a Democratic lead — show that willingness to vote Republican or Democratic is highly correlated with one’s opinion of President Trump. That can mean only one of two things: Either people who voted for Mr. Trump without liking him are so discouraged they aren’t even answering polls (unlikely) or millions of Trump voters are intending to vote for Democrats in the fall.That probably shocks political pros from both sides of the aisle. Mr. Trump’s first year in office, while tumultuous, followed a predictable script. He signed the Republicans’ signature agenda item, a giant tax-cut bill. He pursued a traditional business-friendly Republican program for deregulation and promoted conservative priorities like stricter immigration policy. He appointed the conservative judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, regularly attacked the news media and provoked liberals with culture-war tweets (like berating N.F.L. players for kneeling during the national anthem).This combination of stoking racial resentment and promoting Republican policy was supposed to be his ticket to victory. Yet his job-approval ratings continued to fall during the year, hitting a nadir about the time he endorsed Roy Moore, who lost in Alabama’s special Senate election.It’s not a surprise, though, if you look at the characteristics and beliefs of these “reluctant Trump” voters. According to the George Washington University Battleground Polls from September and October 2016, which also tracked voters who disliked both candidates, these people were largely self-described independents and ticket splitters. They leaned Republican, but they were not hardened partisans. Instead, they were willing to break with their preferred party when personalities or circumstances permitted.These polls also make crystal clear how much Mr. Trump bothered them. In both sets of the battleground polls, these voters strongly thought Republicans were best able to handle taxes, jobs, the economy and foreign affairs. Yet when they were asked the identical questions about which of the two candidates they trusted more, they backed Mrs. Clinton or rated the two evenly. They also strongly thought Mr. Trump did not have the temperament for the job, nor was he honest and trustworthy.Crucially, these voters made up their minds very late in the race. In September, 68 percent thought they would vote for a third-party candidate or were undecided. This changed little by mid-October. In this poll, taken during the height of the controversy over the “Access Hollywood” tape, 54 percent still intended to vote third party or were undecided. This group didn’t break for Mr. Trump until the very end of the race, when they returned to their party preferences to reluctantly back the Republican over the Democrat.Republicans who want to reverse the special election trends of 2017-18 must incorporate these findings into their messaging and campaigns. Simply encouraging partisans to vote won’t be enough: These swing voters still don’t like Mr. Trump, and they don’t respond to simple, partisan appeals.Instead, Republicans need to focus on the voters’ choice in November. Their midterm votes will not be a consequence-free way to express displeasure with the White House; their vote will empower Democrats to do the very things these voters don’t want them to do.This also requires the right use of imagery and pictures for television ads and staged events. That means knowing exactly who these voters are: They are disproportionally employed, married men with children at home. They are also mainly college educated and are the likeliest group to call themselves “upper class.” These are upscale suburban dads, not suburban moms.These men see some things in Mr. Trump that they can respect. The George Washington Battleground Polls found the men thought Mr. Trump was a strong leader and overwhelmingly thought he said what he believed.Reducing the infighting and lack of coordination between Congress and the president is also a must. When asked about the most important challenge facing America, they cited many common priorities: jobs, the economy and so forth. They also mentioned one unusual item: dysfunction in government. Every time it looks like the president, Congress or both can’t handle their jobs, it drives home the message that Republicans can’t do what many of these voters want most: make government work.Making government work may also require the party to go outside its ideological comfort zone, especially on issues like the president’s tariffs. Most Republican legislators and intellectuals hate them, but it turns out that the party’s voters like them. A March poll for Politico found that 65 percent of Republicans backed the president’s tariffs. Strikingly, a Monmouth University poll taken just before the Pennsylvania special election found that 43 percent of that district’s voters thought the tariffs would help the Pittsburgh-area economy. Seventy-five percent of Republicans and 43 percent of independents thought tariffs would help. Among voters backing the Republican Rick Saccone, tariffs were favored by a whopping 81-1 margin; even 10 percent of voters supporting Mr. Saccone’s opponent, Conor Lamb, thought tariffs would help the local economy.Parties that hold the White House almost always lose seats in the midterms. The difference between defeat and disaster, however, depends a lot on how swing voters view that party and its record. Republicans still have a chance to avoid disaster if they know those swing voters are largely Republican-leaning dads upset with Mr. Trump and figure out how to appeal to them.Do that and the party might just keep control of the House and important governorships. Fail and a 2010-style blue tsunami may just wash Republicans out to sea.Henry Olsen (@henryolsenEPPC) is a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center and an editor at UnHerd.com. He is the author of “The Working Class Republican: Ronald Reagan and the Return of Blue-Collar Conservatism.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy KEITH BRADSHERMARCH 28, 2018
Trade pacts typically require years of detailed negotiations. The North American Free Trade Agreement needed two years. Creation of the World Trade Organization took eight.The Trump administration wants to remake global trade in a matter of months.To secure agreements quickly, the White House has taken a contentious approach to negotiations not seen in decades, threatening allies and adversaries alike with harsh sanctions like tariffs and quotas. Those tactics have returned a few early concessions from trading partners, including South Korea, whose revised trade agreement was formally announced by the United States on Wednesday.But it remains to be seen how much American workers would benefit from these deals and whether the global trading system can sustain the chaos.President Trump and his chief trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, have set a series of crucial deadlines that are rapidly approaching. Temporary exemptions on imports of steel and aluminum from Australia, Brazil, Canada, the European Union, Mexico and South Korea have been scheduled to expire on May 1, and the Trump administration has been using that deadline as a cudgel to extract concessions from those nations.AdvertisementMr. Trump is demanding that Canada and Mexico, which have been locked in tense, monthslong negotiations with the United States over Nafta, agree to a rewrite of the trade pact in a matter of weeks. He is seeking Europe’s support by then in a trade showdown with China, and has publicly questioned whether the United States will continue to accept a deal made long ago that allows the European Union to charge a tariff on imported cars that is four times as high as the United States’ tariff.AdvertisementIn what might be the most difficult trade fight ahead, the Trump administration is taking steps to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion a year worth of goods from China as soon as late April.The banana wars were spats that escalated, tariff by tariff, into a decades-long dispute between the United States and the European Union.Behind the rapid pace is a political promise Mr. Trump made both as a candidate and as president that he would rip up global trade deals that did not work for the United States and rewrite them to favor domestic companies and workers. With the 2018 midterm elections fast approaching and many Republicans in vulnerable positions, Mr. Trump is trying to win agreements that will appeal to his base and help keep Republican control of Congress.If Mr. Trump’s push works, it could hasten the biggest rewrite of trade rules around the world since 118 nations agreed in Geneva in 1993 to create the World Trade Organization.But the rush carries significant risks. Hasty deals could do little to solve major, long-running problems for the United States, like China’s financial support for its homegrown companies. New tariffs could also prompt the United States’ biggest trading partners to push back and ignite a trade war or a serious geopolitical confrontation. And it could simply prompt some nations to pull back from the United States, rather than accede to demands that may be unpalatable back home.“You get this thing rolling and it gets hard to stop,” said Nelson G. Dong, an international investment and technology lawyer in the Seattle office of Dorsey & Whitney, a law firm. “Each side gets its manhood challenged.”There are legal risks as well. Trade pacts are usually inspected minutely by lawyers on both sides before they are signed. The United States is trying to conclude a rapid-fire series of them at a moment when the office of the United States trade representative is short-staffed for budgetary reasons. Many governments plan to challenge Mr. Trump’s trade actions at the World Trade Organization including Canada, which has already filed a sweeping trade case.For now, Mr. Trump’s highly ambitious agenda lacks even a clear schedule for trade ministers to meet and sort out the details. The approach has irritated trade ministers in Canada, China, the European Union and Mexico, who have made clear that they would prefer the United States address its chronic trade deficits in a quieter and more collegial manner.AdvertisementIn the case of South Korea, the high-pressure tactic returned results — though it is not yet clear how much Seoul’s concessions will help American workers.Under the deal announced on Wednesday, South Korea will reduce its steel exports to the United States by nearly one-third to avoid getting hit with new American steel tariffs. South Korea also agreed to double, to 50,000, the number of American cars that it will allow to be imported each year into the country without meeting South Korea’s unique safety standards, which have been criticized for decades by American and European officials as a trade barrier.South Korean demand for American cars appears to be growing, but the new rules may not provide an immediate increase for Detroit. According to the Korea Automobile Importers and Distributors Association, the number of cars imported from the United States remains below the 25,000 cap, reaching 20,019 last year.Still, the South Korea examples offers a look at what Mr. Trump may be seeking by pressuring trading partners for quick deals. Mr. Trump strongly hinted last week that his goal in confronting trading partners was a negotiated settlement, as opposed collecting billions of dollars from new tariffs.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I believe that, in many cases — maybe all cases — we’ll end up negotiating a deal,” he said.It is not clear how well that approach will work with China, a much bigger and more pugnacious trading partner. Chinese officials have repeatedly said that they object to threats but do see room to reduce the country’s trade barriers. Premier Li Keqiang said in a speech this month that China was ready to lower tariffs on imported cars and some other items.“We will make more efforts on market opening, promote industrial updating and the development of balanced trade, and provide more choices for consumers,” he said.Comments like that have some analysts predicting that a deal will be reached. “The most likely outcome is that China will concede,” said Larry Hu, an economist in the Hong Kong office of Macquarie Securities.But significant risks remain of a possible trade war by the end of next month.“Nafta could get some result by that date and the European Union might have a deal by then, but in the case of China, this will be more difficult,” said He Weiwen, a former Chinese Commerce Ministry official and longtime trade expert. “The Chinese are very mad.”AdvertisementAlready some in the Trump administration are spoiling for a fight over the W.T.O., which arbitrates international trade disputes.Mr. Lighthizer and many other Democratic and Republican trade experts have repeatedly complained that the W.T.O.’s process for reviewing and solving trade disputes has put the United States and Western countries at a disadvantage.Critics in the United States complain that the W.T.O. allows China to keep steep trade barriers: triple the average tariffs of the United States and double the average tariffs of the European Union. China’s retort is that the West agreed to the tariffs in the 1990s, and that a deal is a deal, not to be changed unless the West offers further concessions.Pascal Lamy, the former director general of the W.T.O., said that what the United States accomplishes could depend to a considerable extent on whether it seeks a broad opening up of international trade, including a requirement that China remove many trade barriers, or whether the United States ends up protecting its own market.“If the United States carpet bombing on trade is about opening a negotiation, which is one of the interpretations, then I think there is ample room to improve the rules of the W.T.O.,” he said.But he added that if American officials “are after blowing up the multilateral system, then it is a very serious issue.”Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher.Reporting was contributed by Steven Lee Myers, Sui-Lee Wee, Chris Buckley and Ana Swanson.A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Armed With Tariffs, Trump Rushes to Remake Trade Deals That Took Years to Write.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By MAGGIE HABERMAN and PATRICK HEALYMARCH 28, 2018
President Trump made a personal phone call on Wednesday to a political supporter with a huge megaphone — Roseanne Barr.Mr. Trump called Ms. Barr to congratulate her on the revival of her comedy, “Roseanne,” and to thank her for her support.The call was confirmed by Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.The president, an obsessive about how TV shows perform, was enthralled by the “huge” ratings “Roseanne” had received, said a person familiar with the call. The show’s first episode, broadcast Tuesday evening on ABC, averaged 18.2 million viewers.“Roseanne,” featuring a working-class family of five and assorted relatives, returned to the air this week more than two decades after it ended its run. The lead actress’s character plays a backer of Mr. Trump. (Roseanne’s TV sister, Jackie Harris, by contrast, supports Hillary Clinton, though ultimately voted for Jill Stein.)What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Barr herself has been a vocal defender of Mr. Trump.In an interview with The New York Times published Tuesday, Ms. Barr said that she decided to turn her character, Roseanne Conner, into a Trump supporter because she felt it was an “accurate portrayal” of the political preferences of many working-class Americans.Advertisement“I just wanted to have that dialogue about families torn apart by the election and their political differences of opinion and how we handle it,” she said. “I thought that this was an important thing to say at this time.”AdvertisementMs. Barr defended the president at several points in the interview, objecting to a suggestion that he opposes many of the views that she and Roseanne Conner have espoused over the years, like support for abortion rights, same-sex marriage and organized labor.Mr. Trump used to back abortion rights before running for president as a Republican, but he has never supported same-sex marriage.“I think he voices them quite well,” she said of the stances that the president shares with her — and her character. She insisted that Mr. Trump favored same-sex marriage, even though he has never endorsed its legalization.“He has said it several times, you know, that he’s not homophobic at all,” she said.Ms. Barr did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Wednesday night.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By ALI WATKINSMARCH 13, 2018
WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.AdvertisementThe reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.Advertisement“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.AdvertisementAgencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”And in altering its 2010 interpretation made under former President Barack Obama, the bureau could be subject to lawsuits that tie up a bump stock ban in the courts.“The Justice Department and the A.T.F. are going to get sued, and Trump is going to get flak,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “Obama was correct in his interpretation of the statute. If you want to ban bump stocks, it has to be done through Congress.”The apparent reversal on bump stocks appears to be more political than legal, said Rick Vasquez, a former A.T.F. official who supervised the bureau’s prior determination on bump stocks.“They’re basically playing games with the regulations and the law right now just to make a political statement,” he said.Other presidents have also influenced Justice Department rule making to help their preferred policies come into fruition, then watched as those rules became fodder for lawsuits. Under Mr. Obama, the Justice Department created the legal underpinnings to protect undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children after Congress failed to address the issue. That program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, was the subject of multiple lawsuits.If bump stock bans are approved, as expected, questions remain on how the rule will be enforced, including whether it will apply to purchases before a ban would be instituted.On Monday, Mr. Trump continued to publicly press for a ban. “Bump Stocks,” he tweeted, “will soon be out.”Katie Benner contributed reporting.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »By NIRAJ CHOKSHIMARCH 16, 2018
A study published on Friday appears to confirm what news reports suggested long ago: President Trump’s campaign rallies were associated with a rise in violence when they came to town.A city that hosted a Trump rally saw an average of 2.3 more assaults reported on the day of the event than on a typical day, according to the study, led by researchers at the University of Pennsylvania and published in the journal Epidemiology. The authors found no corresponding link between assaults and rallies for Mr. Trump’s Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.“It appeared to be a phenomenon that’s unique to Donald Trump’s rally,” said Christopher Morrison, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Pennsylvania and the lead author of the study.It may come as little surprise that the rallies were associated with increased violence, as the often volcanic clashes between Mr. Trump’s supporters and opponents were widely covered at the time.New York Times reporters have covered Donald J. Trump's rallies for more than a year. His supporters at these events often express their views in angry and provocative ways. Here are some examples.In March 2016 alone, a Trump rally in Chicago was called off after violent clashes broke out, while an anti-Trump protester was punched at a rally in North Carolina and another was punched and kicked at a rally in Arizona. The following month, several Trump supporters were assaulted at a California rally.AdvertisementMr. Trump himself repeatedly seemed to endorse attacks on his detractors, too.“Maybe he should have been roughed up,” he said of one protester who was reportedly punched and kicked in November 2015. “I’d like to punch him in the face, I’ll tell ya,” he said of another a few months later. He even offered to pay legal fees for his supporters if they became too aggressive.AdvertisementThe supporters also often aimed offensive and violent rhetoric at Mrs. Clinton, suggesting she be killed.To determine whether those words and news reports corresponded with an actual shift in violence, the researchers compiled a list of 31 Trump rallies and 38 Clinton rallies held in cities with assault data available online.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.They compared the number of assaults reported on the day of the rally to the number reported on the corresponding day of the week, for each of the four weeks before and after the event.On a typical day, cities saw an average of 19.4 assaults, they found. On the day of a Trump rally, that number rose to 21.7.The pattern held even when the researchers controlled for the influence of factors like population size, data sources and the day used for the comparison.The researchers offered two explanations for the increase in assaults. Either they were the result of clashes at or near the rallies, or they occurred elsewhere in the cities after the aggressive mood on display by Mr. Trump, his supporters or his opponents had spread through “social contagion.”There were some limitations to the findings, the authors noted. They may not apply to the rallies or cities that weren’t studied, and a greater police presence during the rallies may have made it more likely for an assault to be reported.A version of this article appears in print on March 17, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Violence Increased When Cities Hosted Trump Rallies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Rural voters voice concern that retaliation against tariffs could take aim at American agriculture, which posts a trade surplus.By MONICA DAVEY and PATRICIA COHENMARCH 10, 2018
MAPLE PARK, Ill. — Snow and sleet were falling on Eldon Gould’s 500 acres this week, but he was already looking ahead to planting season; depending on ground conditions and the temperature, that could be just several weeks away.But now the prospect of steel and aluminum tariffs was adding to the list of worries and uncertainties that come with every corn and soybean season.“It’s the retaliation risk,” Mr. Gould said from his kitchen table in Maple Park, in a region of northern Illinois where farmland runs on for miles.“The world’s already awash in grain,” Mr. Gould said, “and then if you lose a key customer — it’s big. They’re going to go somewhere else to buy it.”AdvertisementThat’s a tangible threat throughout the Midwest, which accounts for roughly half the nation’s agricultural output, a prime target in any tit-for-tat response to the tariffs announced by President  Trump. Unlike the rest of the economy, farms deliver a trade surplus for the United States, and a trade war could put barriers around lucrative markets.Mr. Gould, 76, is a longtime Republican, and like large numbers of farmers, he voted for Mr. Trump. But several of the president’s policy positions, like curtailing crop insurance, have run counter to agricultural interests — and perhaps none more than trade.The country’s overall trade deficit continues to irritate Mr. Trump. Last year, he withdrew from the nascent Trans-Pacific Partnership, challenged the authority of the World Trade Organization, and insisted on rewriting the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada — a pact that has helped lift American farmers’ fortunes at a time when low prices have eaten into their incomes.In January, the president imposed tariffs on imported solar panels and washing machines. Then on Thursday, he announced a 10 percent tariff on all aluminum imports and a 25 percent tariff on all steel imports, stoking confusion and outrage among some of the nation’s biggest trading partners.Some countries have talked about payback, and farmers in Illinois, in Wisconsin and elsewhere are worried that they will suffer from the fallout.Advertisement“The ag economy is not very good right now — fragile is the polite word for it,” Mr. Gould said.His wife, Sandy, across the table, jumped in: “It’s in the tank is what he means.”Mr. Gould continued, “So then when you go to great lengths to upset some of your key customers, there’s reason for concern.”Three out of every five rows of soybeans planted in the United States find their way out of the country; half of those, valued at $14 billion in 2016, go to China alone. Mr. Gould estimates that 90 percent of his soybeans are exported, and 70 percent of his corn, so what he calls Mr. Trump’s “trade antics” — particularly his criticisms of Nafta — nag at him.“It’s not only what happens today, but it’s the reputation of becoming an unreliable supplier,” he said.Still, he’s not sure what will happen next, and he thinks that many farmers who supported the president are not yet ready to abandon him. “I think they’re going to wait and see how this thing plays out,” he said.Farther north, in the tiny Wisconsin town of Dallas, where Andy Bensend grows soybeans on 5,000 acres, he is “guardedly optimistic” that the tariffs won’t spill over and hurt his business — even though his entire crop is meant to be shipped overseas.“I am not an alarmist,” said Mr. Bensend, who is president of the Midwest Shippers Association, a grain export group. “We need to let the president do what he sees as wise. I think we have the same objective and he has our best interests in mind.”That means balancing the concerns of the two sectors so that neither steelworkers nor farmers get a raw deal, he said.AdvertisementNavigating among competing domestic and global interests is complicated, though.Two weeks after the administration imposed a tariff on solar panels, China opened an anti-dumping investigation into American exports of sorghum, a grain used in livestock feed. The United States was virtually China’s sole foreign source of sorghum last year, with $1 billion in sales. Almost half of the American crop is grown in Kansas.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This week, the European Commission presented its members with a $3.5 billion list of American products that could be targets of retaliatory measures, and agricultural products were on the list.On Thursday, the House speaker, Representative Paul Ryan, issued a statement that said, “I disagree with this action and fear its unintended consequences,” and added, “We will continue to urge the administration to narrow this policy so that it is focused only on those countries and practices that violate trade law.”Mr. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, is no doubt trying to assure constituents like Mike Cerny, a soybean and corn farmer in Sharon who works about 2,500 acres of land, some his own, some his customers’.Mr. Cerny, who voted for Mr. Trump, said he liked most of Mr. Trump’s policies, particularly tax cuts. But if the tariffs “were to start some kind of a trade war, this would not be good for his support in farm country,” he added.His perspective is shared by Davie Stephens, vice president of the American Soybean Association, who farms about 5,500 acres in Kentucky, the home state of Mitch McConnell, the Republican Senate leader.“Of course I’m worried about the tariffs,” he said. He and other association members plan to meet with Mr. McConnell and other members of Congress when they visit the capital next week. “We’re making sure we do have that access to the global market,” Mr. Stephens said, after he finished unloading a forklift on his farm in Wingo, in western Kentucky.Over the years, Mr. Stephens, 52, said, he has voted for Republican and Democratic presidents. “I’ve supported everything they’ve tried to do for farmers,” he said, “but any tariff could hurt farmers if our customers retaliate.”Import restrictions on foreign steel have been pursued in some form by pretty much every administration going back to Richard Nixon’s in 1969.AdvertisementThe heavy duties on Chinese steel that President Barack Obama imposed in 2016, which helped limit imports to 2 percent of the steel coming into the country, remain in effect.In 2002, President George W. Bush imposed tariffs and quotas on steel, which cost the economy millions of dollars and job losses, according to a report the next year by the United States International Trade Commission.Mr. Gould in Maple Park has been farming for more than 50 years, long enough to have seen commodity prices boom and farmland prices zip to highs no one expected — and also to have seen prices fall and to watch farmers in utter crisis in the mid-1980s. For him, talk of a trade war jars memories of a different, grim period, when President Jimmy Carter imposed a partial embargo on grain sales to the Soviet Union.“I heard Carter talk about what he was going to do, and I thought, ‘Well, there’s $50,000 down the drain,’” Mr. Gould recalled. “As it turned out, it was way more than that.”Twenty-five miles away, in Yorkville, Ill., Bob Stewart, 48, a farmer whose crop is mostly for export, sees the latest dispute as a basic economics lesson.A Republican who said he did not vote in the 2016 presidential race because he was not excited about either candidate, Mr. Stewart called himself a “proponent of free trade, and a proponent of ‘grow what you’re good at in your location.’”“We do really good at growing corn and soybeans,” Mr. Stewart said from his office, filled with farm maps and carefully organized tools and overlooking a field with the remains of last year’s corn. “Maybe China’s does really well at steel. Now that may not sound good to folks I’m related to or go to church with who build steel. But they have a competitive advantage at steel. We have a competitive advantage with crops.”Mostly, though, there isn’t time to worry too much. It’s a crucial and busy period: getting ready to plant 9,000 acres — nearly half corn and half beans. “We’re really focused on getting out to the field,” Mr. Stewart said. “But it’s always in the back of your mind.”An earlier version of this article misstated the age of Davie Stephens, vice president of the American Soybean Association. He is 52, not 67.Follow Patricia Cohen and Monica Davey on Twitter: @PatcohenNYT and @monicadavey1.Monica Davey reported from Maple Park, and Patricia Cohen from New York.A version of this article appears in print on March 10, 2018, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Pro-Trump Farmers Fear  His Tariffs.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Sidebar By                     
 ADAM LIPTAK
 
APRIL 2, 2018
WASHINGTON — When Donald J. Trump was running for president, he promised to “open up our libel laws.” No one quite knew what he meant.Last month, Mr. Trump started to make good on his campaign pledge. But he did so inadvertently — as a libel defendant on the losing side of a decision that will help victims of sexual misconduct sue when they are called liars.“The irony is glaring,” said Roy Gutterman, who teaches communications law and journalism at Syracuse University.Before the #MeToo movement, libel lawsuits from people accused of lying were in decline. Indeed, a 2016 law review article chronicled what it called “the slow, quiet and troubled demise of liar libel.”AdvertisementThese days, a remarkable number of libel suits, including ones against Bill Cosby, Bill O’Reilly, Roy S. Moore and Mr. Trump, have been filed by women who say they were defamed by men who denied their accusations of sexual misconduct.AdvertisementCourts have struggled with such suits. Calling someone a liar can be an insult, an opinion or hyperbole, all of which are protected by the First Amendment. But an assertion of fact soberly presented from someone in a position to know the truth can amount to libel. A lot depends on context, and courts have had a hard time drawing a line.Two recent decisions in libel suits against Mr. Trump have helped clarify matters.In December, a New York appeals court affirmed the dismissal of a lawsuit against him from a political consultant he had mocked on Twitter. Mr. Trump had called the consultant, Cheryl Jacobus, “a real dummy” and a “major loser.”Those “vague and simplistic insults” were opinions, Justice Barbara Jaffe, the trial judge in the case, wrote last year.She cited a 1985 decision that threw out a libel claim from a real estate developer who had sued an architecture critic for saying that a planned building would be “an atrocious, ugly monstrosity.” That was an opinion, the court ruled.The unsuccessful plaintiff was Mr. Trump. He had asked for $500 million.In the second recent decision, Justice Jennifer Schecter ruled against Mr. Trump on March 20 in a case brought against him by Summer Zervos, a former contestant on “The Apprentice.” Mr. Trump’s repeated and specific denials that he had mistreated Ms. Zervos were, the judge said, assertions of fact.Ms. Zervos came forward in October 2016, after the release of a recording in which Mr. Trump boasted about sexually assaulting women. She said Mr. Trump had kissed and groped her in his office in New York and at a Los Angeles hotel a decade before.Mr. Trump immediately denied Ms. Zervos’s account. “To be clear, I never met her at a hotel or greeted her inappropriately,” he said.AdvertisementIn the following days, at campaign rallies, on Twitter and at a presidential debate, Mr. Trump issued other denials, some directed at Ms. Zervos and some calling all sexual-misconduct accusations against him “total lies” and “totally phony stories.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“All of these liars will be sued when the election is over,” Mr. Trump said.Those suits never arrived, but one from Ms. Zervos did. “His brutalizing of her a second time — this time falsely condemning her to the world as a liar for having the temerity to reveal his earlier unwanted sexual groping of her body — directly caused serious injury,” Ms. Zervos’s lawyers wrote.Mr. Trump’s lawyers asked the judge to throw out the case, saying he had merely offered his opinions. “Political statements in political contexts,” they wrote, “are nonactionable political opinion.”Justice Schechter disagreed. Mr. Trump’s statements “cannot be characterized simply as opinion, heated rhetoric or hyperbole,” she wrote in a decision allowing the case to move forward. “That defendant’s statements about plaintiff’s veracity were made while he was campaigning to become president of the United States does not make them any less actionable.”Over the weekend, Mr. Trump’s lawyers filed an appeal in Ms. Zervos’s case. They said his statements were “opinions made in quintessentially political forums during a political campaign.”Len Niehoff, who wrote the 2016 article on “liar libel” with Ashley Messenger, said last month’s decision made an important distinction.“Not all liar libel cases are created equal,” said Mr. Niehoff, who teaches at the University of Michigan School of Law. “The plaintiff has a stronger case where the defendant has personal knowledge of the matter. If the president himself denies having an affair, this is a statement of fact. After all, he knows whether he did or didn’t.”Mr. Trump’s unusual silence in the face of accusations from the adult film star known as Stormy Daniels may be an effort to avoid yet another libel suit, Mr. Niehoff said. Should he deny the encounter, Mr. Niehoff said, “it will be the newest count in the amended complaint filed against him.”Mr. Trump himself has been an enthusiastic but almost entirely unsuccessful libel plaintiff. A 2016 article from the American Bar Association called him a “libel bully” and a “libel loser.”AdvertisementMr. Gutterman, who has written about libel suits based on accusations of lying, said Mr. Trump’s recent loss was in a way fitting. “The libel bully,” Mr. Gutterman said, “is now facing libel liability himself.”Susan E. Seager, the author of the bar association article, said Mr. Trump was receiving “a bit of divine justice.”“The libel bully,” she said, “is getting his comeuppance.”Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter at @adamliptakA version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Vowed to Change Libel Laws. He Might Not Have Had This in Mind.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »AdvertisementSupported byBy Michelle GoldbergBecause there is broad consensus that Donald Trump is a lewd degenerate, nothing Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress and director, told “60 Minutes” about their alleged 2006 sexual encounter was particularly astonishing. (Though the mental image of Trump dropping his pants at Daniels’s command for a spanking will likely dampen libidos throughout the land.)Everyone knows Trump is a disloyal husband, so it’s no shock that he slept with Daniels — and, at about the same time, with the former Playboy model Karen McDougal — while his wife, Melania Trump, was caring for their new baby.Everyone also knows that Trump has a repulsive compulsion to sexualize his daughter Ivanka — he once happily concurred with Howard Stern that she was a “piece of ass” — so it’s not surprising that he told Daniels she reminded him of his child before he slept with her. (According to McDougal, Trump said something similar to her.)Nevertheless, the Daniels interview aired on Sunday was important, portending danger for both Trump and his personal lawyer Michael Cohen. As I’ve written before, the Daniels affair is a corruption scandal disguised as a sex scandal. And on the corruption front, we learned things on Sunday that could help unravel Trump’s wretched presidency.Daniels’s most shocking disclosure was her account of being threatened, apparently on Trump’s behalf, in 2011, a few weeks after agreeing to tell her story to a gossip magazine for $15,000. She said she was in a parking lot with her infant daughter when a man approached and said: “Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.” Then, she said, he looked at the baby and warned, “A beautiful little girl — it would be a shame if something happened to her mom.”There was another, less direct threat earlier this year, Daniels said, after The Wall Street Journal reported that Cohen had arranged a $130,000 hush money payment to her before the 2016 election. Both her former attorney and her former business manager, she told “60 Minutes,” pressured her to sign statements denying the tryst and the payoff, saying of the Trump camp, “They can make your life hell in many different ways.”In a statement from his lawyer on Monday, Cohen denied threatening Daniels, and said he didn’t believe the parking lot encounter ever happened. But Michael Avenatti, the aggressive, mediagenic lawyer who took on Daniels’s case this year, is convinced the attempted intimidation originated with the Trump camp, and he told me he “absolutely” has evidence about the threat that has not yet become public.Avenatti has been strategically — if maddeningly — coy about just what he’s holding back. Last Thursday, he tweeted, “If ‘a picture is worth a thousand words,’ how many words is this worth?,” accompanied by a photo of a CD or DVD. Whatever was on that disc, we didn’t see it on Sunday. “In no way would we play our entire hand on ‘60 Minutes,’” he told me.Of course, he could be bluffing. But if he’s not, this case could provide a crucial window into Trump’s thuggish way of doing business.Right now, Daniels and Avenatti are fighting to have the nondisclosure agreement she signed in 2016 declared null and void. If she signed it because she felt threatened, that strengthens her position. As the suit proceeds, said Norman Eisen, the chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, “Stormy and her lawyer will be able to bring in a lot of evidence of other threats associated with Trump.”There’s already quite a bit in the public domain, some thanks to BuzzFeed News, which obtained F.B.I. reports on cases involving threats made by alleged Trump associates. In 1995, the site reported, security guards working for Trump “shoved, threatened and held a 12-year-old boy and his mother against their will,” in an attempt to silence a whistle-blower. In 2009, BuzzFeed News’s Jason Leopold wrote, a lawyer representing investors who stood to lose over $1 billion in Trump’s casino bankruptcy got a threatening phone call. We “know where you live and we’re going to your house for your wife and kids,” the caller said.If you can find this and more with a Google search, imagine what Avenatti might uncover through the legal process of discovery.The fact-finding potential of the case expanded further on Monday, when Avenatti filed a revised complaint in Federal District Court in California. The part that made headlines is that Daniels is now suing Cohen for defamation. More significant, though, is Avenatti’s claim that the original hush agreement is invalid in part because it “was entered with the illegal aim, design and purpose of circumventing federal campaign finance law.”If the case proceeds, Avenatti could get a look inside the Trump campaign. “The amended allegations will provide me and my team with significantly more discovery relating to what Mr. Trump knew, when he knew about it, and what he did about it, if anything,” Avenatti told me on Monday evening.Will the new strategy work? “I think it’s well done,” Eisen told me, though far from a sure thing. I don’t want to get my hopes up about a porn star saving the republic. But I can scarcely think of a more satisfying way for this terrible era to end.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@michelleinbklyn) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Frank BruniDonald Trump has a boatload of problems. Ann Coulter, the author of a 2016 book titled “In Trump We Trust,” is now one of them.A week ago, when he signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill with nothing for his promised border wall, her frustrations with him, expressed frequently in her syndicated columns, turned into fury. “Congratulations, President Schumer!” she tweeted to more than 1.9 million followers. She also fantasized on Twitter about his impeachment.During an appearance at Columbia University on Tuesday night, she referred to him as a “shallow, lazy ignoramus.” And during a long conversation with me at The Times on Thursday afternoon, she sent him a warning about the wrath he’d face if the wall doesn’t rise: “The Former Trumpers should keep Donald Trump awake at night.”Coulter isn’t just any Trump critic. She was one of his earliest, most prominent — and fiercest — advocates. He came down that escalator and ranted about Mexican rapists and she swooned. Understandably: His diatribes against immigrants were cribbed from her 2015 best seller, “¡Adios, America!: The Left’s Plan to Turn Our Country into a Third World Hellhole.” It was published around the time of his campaign announcement. She had sent him an advance copy.“Perhaps no single writer has had such an immediate impact on a presidential election since Harriet Beecher Stowe,” David Frum, a former speechwriter for President George W. Bush, later observed in The Atlantic.So Coulter was Trump’s muse. She was also his oracle, predicting his nomination and election back when most others still dismissed him as a joke. And she’s a barometer of, and tribune for, some of his core supporters, including her good friend Matt Drudge.It’s for that reason that I pressed her to visit The Times. We spoke for about an hour. We could have clashed over an array of issues and recent statements of hers. But the agenda was her relationship with Trump and his political bind: He is pleasing neither her nor swing voters in the suburbs. That has implications not just for 2020 but also for the November midterms.Her agreement to talk hinged in part on our history. I have been discussing politics with her for almost two decades. I remember vividly a dinner in early 2016 when she laid out for me how Trump would prevail. She mentioned Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania. I thought she was delusional. Then came Nov. 8.What follows is a condensed and edited transcript of our conversation.Frank Bruni: Over the last few days you have become one of Trump’s fiercest critics. What happened?Ann Coulter: What was great about him being a coarse vulgarian was that he didn’t care about the opinions of Manhattan sophisticates, so when they come to him and say, “Oh, no, you can’t say you want to build a wall, that’s such a gauche opinion, that’s held by the people in the outer boroughs.” Anyone else would say, “Oh, no, I’m sorry, was anyone watching? Oh, I didn’t mean Mexicans are sending their rapists. I meant they’re sending their Nobel Prize winners. They’re sending their absolute best here. That’s what I meant.” That’s what any other Republican would have done — instantly gone cowering. He never did that.But something switched Nov. 8. Suddenly it was: “Please like me, Goldman Sachs.”Bruni: The $1.3 trillion spending bill that he signed last week sent you over the edge.Coulter: Yes. This is a different category you’re seeing now: Former Trumpers. That should be terrifying to the president. Maybe he’ll actually keep his promises. Unlike Marco Rubio. Unlike the rest of them. Unlike Mitch McConnell. We have been betrayed over and over and over with presidents promising to do something about immigration. If he played us for suckers, oh, you will not see rage like you have seen.Immigration should be a bipartisan issue. I wish Trump would give something like a fireside chat. That’s what he should have done the day of his inauguration: Sit in the Oval Office and say, perfectly somberly and kindly: “I said some wild things during the campaign, it sounds like it’s divisive and angry, but now we need to bring the country together. We can disagree on other things, but one thing that ought to unite us is that we want to protect the people already here.” It’s a perfectly bipartisan issue.Bruni: I don’t want to debate immigration policy.Coulter: But that is the issue of the Former Trumpers. We are voting on the issues, not the man, and I think that is how you get away from tribal politics.Bruni: When you say you don’t care about the man, I immediately flashed on Stormy Daniels. You had a tweet just the other day in which you said: “Stormy says she and Trump had sex only once. I guess if you want the guy to screw you repeatedly you have to be one of his voters.” Does the Stormy Daniels story — does his behavior — bother you?Coulter: The fact that he’s totally walked away from his central campaign promises does change your opinion of things like that and how you evaluate them. I said throughout the campaign, “This is a one-time pass for a two-time divorcé.”Bruni: You came to prominence going after Bill Clinton for behavior like Trump’s, right?Coulter: No, that was quite different. That’s perjury and obstruction. You can’t have a legal system if people can just take an oath and just lie. It wasn’t just the philandering.In general, my sense of all of the claims about Trump and the women and the sexual misbehavior is that it is not true. I actually think he probably is a gentleman and is home at night at 9 p.m. sitting in bed eating cheeseburgers.Bruni: So many women have come forward and said he made advances that were unwanted.Coulter: That was very close to the election and they had many years to do that.Bruni: So you don’t believe them?Coulter: I tend to discount almost all of them. The Stormy Daniels case, you can go either way.Bruni: One more Stormy thing, another tweet of yours, you must have been watching the interview, and you picked out the quote, “You remind me of my daughter.” Please expand on why you tweeted that.Coulter: I was watching it live. I was in the gym so I could watch the basketball games. And I emailed it to about 100 of my friends before tweeting it, thinking, “Don’t tweet it, don’t tweet it.” And I just said, “Screw it, I’ve got to tweet it.” It’s just creepy.Bruni: He didn’t get the money for the wall. Tell me quickly what else is wrong with that spending bill.Coulter: I don’t know what more horrible thing you could come up with than violating your central campaign promise that became the chant and the theme of the campaign that he promised at every single rally. I mean, implementing the principles of “The Communist Manifesto” wouldn’t be more of a betrayal than that. It’s totally secondary to me, but it’s kind of hilarious that more money is being given to the Department of Health and Human Services than Barack Obama even requested in his budget.Bruni: I don’t think people understand what an intellectual godparent of Trumpism you are. Tell us about the beginning of Ann Coulter and Donald Trump.Coulter: This is a much happier part of the interview. First of all, much like trade, immigration wasn’t an issue that Trump just latched onto. Back in 2013, when Rubio was pushing his total-betrayal amnesty bill, Trump was tweeting like mad and I was re-tweeting him — and put the tweets in columns — saying: “G.O.P., what are you doing, this is going to destroy the country. You don’t know who you are amnestying. You don’t know how many there are.” He had great tweets on the issue.“¡Adios, America!” came out two weeks before Trump came down the escalator. The book hadn’t even come out yet and I get an email from one of Trump’s people saying, “Mr. Trump would like a copy of your book.” I Fedexed it to his office. I have avoided seeking or requesting credit on this. His instincts were very good. I think he should take credit. His instincts are amazing.Bruni: At an Iowa campaign rally for Trump in August 2015, you said, “Since Donald Trump has announced that he is running for president, I felt like I’m dreaming.” Why?Coulter: Every day, you’d wake up and they’d be arguing about anchor babies and sanctuary cities. We never saw that before, not on Fox, not on MSNBC. You never saw people talking about it.Bruni: You have a strange dreamscape. My dreams don’t include anchor babies, but that’s just me. You’ve told me before that Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were nowhere to be found until Trump’s poll numbers rose. That’s your prompt to talk about two of your least favorite people in the administration.Coulter: They’re lovely people but, boy, I think Trump voters can say this was a bait-and-switch. There was no intimation during that 18 months of the most magnificent campaign I’ve ever seen that, “Don’t worry, I won’t go to the White House without Jared and Ivanka and I’ll be setting policy to make sure they lose no friends in the Hamptons.” I always suspected they were back in New York denying they were related to him.I’ve met Jared. He’s very nice. But if a relative of mine suddenly bought Ivanka’s fashion company, I wouldn’t demand to be the one put in charge of designing the clothes and figuring out if they are going to be made in Macau or India. Not my area of expertise.Bruni: So the two of them have no business being in the advisory roles, and in the proximity to him that they are.Coulter: Yeah. And I’m not telling tales out of school: As was accurately reported in Michael Wolff’s book, “Fire and Fury,” I’ve told the president this and I’ve tried to get everyone else around him to tell him this.There were all these rumors about how he was bringing his kids. They were there during the transition. Wait a second. A, they know nothing about politics. B, as far as we know, to this moment, they’ve been liberal Democrats. They’re very nice people but Bobby Kennedy was a nice person — and he knew a little bit more about politics — and when J.F.K. made Bobby his attorney general, the press pulled its nose out of J.F.K.’s butt just long enough to criticize him for that. We don’t like nepotism. We’re Americans. This is third-world behavior. Which is what I told the president.Bruni: You told him this directly?Coulter: I’ve leaked nothing from my conversations, interactions, ever. This one was leaked by someone else, and since there was only one other person on that phone call …. It was me and the president and this was during the transition.Bruni: And he said what in response?Coulter: First of all, I had tried to get this to him through, I think, Corey Lewandowski. Definitely Steve Bannon. Stephen Miller. Peter Thiel. I said, “You’ve got to tell him you can’t hire your kids.” And every one of them said, “That’s above my pay grade.” So when I talked to him, I said, “Apparently no one else will tell you this, but you can’t hire your kids.” And I went on quite a bit longer than that, that he was looking like Evita Perón.He does listen, contrary to what people say. He said, “You’re right, nobody else would tell me that.” So at the Wolff book party — and I didn’t leak anything to him — I said to Wolff, “I didn’t tell you anything, how did you know I had told him this? It had to be the president or someone the president told.” And he said: “Oh, yeah, it was the president. He was storming around the Oval Office, saying, ‘And then Ann Coulter told me ….’” So, yeah, he listens.Bruni: You implied that Trump was governing so that Jared and Ivanka wouldn’t lose their friends in the Hamptons. But he went for the Muslim ban. He backed out of the Paris climate accord.Coulter: That was in the first week. But from mostly, probably, the reporting of Maggie Haberman — she does seem to have an excellent pipeline to the Oval Office — it was Jared’s idea to fire James Comey. It was Jared’s idea to hire Anthony Scaramucci. At any point, does it dawn on someone, “Every time I take this guy’s advice, disaster ensues?” It doesn’t seem to be hitting home. Why? Because it’s a relative.Bruni: One of the things that most stunned me as his administration came together was he spent so much time during the campaign railing against Wall Street, fashioning himself as a populist. This was the richest cabinet, I think, in history.Coulter: I was terrified and I told them so. Is Trump the only person who didn’t know that generals are so P.C.? They are suck-ups. He’s not getting Patton. He’s getting Chihuahuas. He used to say, “I want General Patton.” Well, it’s not Patton anymore.Bruni: One month into Donald Trump’s presidency, you said, “So far, I give him an A-plus.”Coulter: Oh, I liked his tweets.Bruni: You were giving Donald Trump an A-plus on his presidency because you liked his tweets?Coulter: I think so.Bruni: By then he had hired a cabinet that you found abhorrent. By then he had brought Jared and Ivanka to Washington. But he’s still getting an A-plus? Even Harvard doesn’t have grade inflation like that.Coulter: I believe my columns gave more thoughtful reviews. I think I was being a little ironic and cheerleading there because I was obviously attacking him immediately in the columns.Bruni: What’s his grade today?Coulter: We’re halfway through the semester and he’s failing. He could still get ahead. There’s still a shot for extra credit.Bruni: Let me guess: It involves a wall.Coulter: There is one thing he promised every single day for 18 months. Don’t act like I’m the nut wanting a wall. That was the chant at every rally. I didn’t make this up.Bruni: But let’s be adults here. Was Mexico ever going to pay for it?Coulter: No. 1, his voters absolutely do not care.Bruni: He promised that as often as he promised the wall.Coulter: I know, but it was like me giving him an A-plus. It was just a fun chant. I promise you: We want a wall, we don’t care who pays for it. But it’s very easy: In 10 years, if we just stopped giving Mexico foreign aid, we’d pay for it.Bruni: Are you a Former Trumper?Coulter: He can still come back. If he builds the wall, he’ll be the Emperor God again. I’ll throw a huge party. I’ll start a committee to put him on Mount Rushmore. But right now, if I were a betting woman, I don’t think we’re getting a wall.Bruni: What the hell does Donald Trump believe in? What is his compass? I used to think it was applause, but now I think it’s incoherence. You’re the scholar of Donald Trump. Tell me what he believes in.Coulter: I really think in his heart of hearts he does believe in the #MAGA agenda. I think his Achilles’ heel is that he wants to be liked. For 18 months he didn’t want to be liked by cafe society, but starting Nov. 8, he just wants applause from The New York Times. It’s very odd how he’s always running to New York Times reporters and writers and not particularly giving interviews to the people, the broadcasters and the radio hosts, who supported him. Why is he calling it fake news when it’s all he wants to be on?Bruni: You told me he was going to prevail in the primaries and the general election. Look into the future now. When and how does this presidency end?Coulter: I really don’t know. He still could come back. He can build the wall. He’s commander in chief. Will he do it? I wouldn’t bet on it right now.Bruni: Will he be impeached?Coulter: That I don’t know. Things aren’t looking good for holding the House.Bruni: Will Republicans hold either the House or Senate?Coulter: Senate math suggests Republicans hold the Senate. If it is a blue wave, the Democrats take the House. I think they might not impeach him. They may think they can get more from this guy than they would under Hillary Clinton.Bruni: They may think he’s better taken advantage of than impeached?Coulter: Yeah. If they impeach him, I think Republicans might want to get rid of him. I think they might rather deal with Mike Pence and not have to be constantly asked by reporters about this and that tweet.Bruni: Does Trump have anywhere, politically, to go? Look at his loss of the popular vote. We’re talking about 77,000 votes in three states. I could argue it’s a fluke he was elected. If he pleases those who elected him, I’m not sure that he gets re-elected, but if he moves as far away from you as you say he has, I still don’t think he can get the people in the middle. Does he really have a political path to survival?Coulter: That’s a really good point. The hate for him on the left is visceral. Graydon Carter is never going to say, “Well, I have to admit he’s done something right.” The only way he has to go is to go back to the #MAGA agenda.Bruni: But I don’t think that’s enough either.Coulter: I disagree. I think it would be. A, it’s his only chance, although it may not help Jared and Ivanka be popular in the Hamptons. B, I think he can win independents over. He has not been a fascist. When a court unconstitutionally says he can’t ban immigrants on the basis of national security or what’s good for the country, he complies.Bruni: We have heard and we have written endlessly about Never Trumpers. What are Former Trumpers? If he loses you Former Trumpers permanently, what’s he left with?Coulter: This is not Never Trumpers. It was very easy to brush aside Jeb Exclamation Point. Charlie Sykes. Bill Kristol. The Former Trumpers are the ones who would die for Trump, who would defend him from anything, who did defend him and blew off the “Access Hollywood” tape — blew off everything. We kept coming back. He could sell Ivanka Trump merchandise from the Oval Office if he would just build the wall.If he doesn’t have us anymore — that’s what he should be worried about, because, you play those people for suckers? The ones who stood by him through thick and thin and thought this was finally something different? Former Trumpers should put the fear of God in him.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementBy ERNESTO LONDOÑO and MOTOKO RICHMARCH 8, 2018
SANTIAGO, Chile — A trade pact originally conceived by the United States to counter China’s growing economic might in Asia now has a new target: President Trump’s embrace of protectionism.A group of 11 nations — including major United States allies like Japan, Canada and Australia — signed a broad trade deal on Thursday in Chile’s capital, Santiago, that challenges Mr. Trump’s view of trade as a zero-sum game filled with winners and losers.Covering 500 million people on either side of the Pacific Ocean, the pact represents a new vision for global trade as the United States imposes steel and aluminum tariffs on even some of its closest friends.Mr. Trump withdrew the United States from an earlier version of the agreement, then known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a year ago as one of his first acts in office. The resuscitated deal is undeniably weaker without the participation of the world’s biggest economy, but it serves as a powerful sign of how countries that have previously counted on American leadership are now forging ahead without it.Advertisement“Globally, there has been an increasing level of uncertainty, given the adoption of policies and measures by some key players that question the principles that have contributed to generating prosperity for our peoples,” President Michelle Bachelet of Chile said in a speech shortly before the pact was signed. “We need to stay on the course of globalization, yet learning from our past mistakes.”AdvertisementIn its original incarnation as the TPP, the accord was conceived as a counterweight to China, whose vast economy was drawing other Asian countries closer despite its state-driven model and steep trade barriers. Not only does the pact lower trade barriers, it could also prod Beijing to make changes to enjoy the same benefits.When President Obama was advocating the deal, he said that “America should call the shots” instead of China.Now, signatories are opening the door for China to join. Heraldo Muñoz, Chile’s foreign minister, told reporters on Thursday afternoon that Chinese officials had been weighing the possibility of signing on.“This will be open to anyone who accepts its components,” Mr. Muñoz said. “It’s not an agreement against anyone. It’s in favor of open trade.”On Thursday, Mr. Trump went in the opposite direction, announcing tariffs on steel and aluminum imports to the United States. He said that Canada and Mexico were being exempted for now, and that allies like Australia could later be excluded. His order could affect Brazil, China, Germany, Japan, South Korea and Turkey, though he said he would have leeway to add or take countries off the list as he sees fit.The United States has “gone from being a leader to actually being the No. 1 antagonist and No. 1 source of fear” on trade, said Jeffrey Wilson, the head of research at Perth U.S.-Asia Center at the University of Western Australia. “If you’re a trade policy maker in Asia, your No. 1 fear is that Trump is going to take a swing at you.”He added that such fears could prompt countries, however reluctantly, to tether themselves more closely to China. “The U.S. is really delivering the region to China at the moment,” Mr. Wilson said.AdvertisementThe new agreement — known as the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership — drops tariffs drastically and establishes sweeping new trade rules in markets that represent about a seventh of the world’s economy. It opens more markets to free trade in agricultural products and digital services around the region. While American beef faces 38.5 percent tariffs in Japan, for example, beef from Australia, New Zealand and Canada will not.Once it goes into effect, the agreement is expected to generate an additional $147 billion in global income, according to an analysis by the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Its backers say it also bolsters protections for intellectual property and includes language that could prod members to improve labor conditions.Other members include Mexico, Vietnam, New Zealand, Chile, Malaysia, Peru, Singapore and Brunei. The deal will go into effect as soon as the legislative bodies of at least three signers ratify it. How long that will take is unclear.China, which has discussed forming its own regional trade pact, has been more positive about the new deal since the United States pulled out. It sent a high-level delegation a year ago to Viña del Mar, Chile, where the pact’s members sought to regroup after the United States’ withdrawal. Experts said China could feel the pull if still more countries joined. The pact is also built around fostering trade in sophisticated manufactured goods and high-tech products, and China now produces many of those in abundance.“It’s hard to ignore rules that everyone else is agreeing to, and they will probably look carefully at these rules,” said Wendy Cutler, a former United States trade negotiator who worked on the Trans-Pacific Partnership and is now managing director of the Washington office of the Asia Society Policy Institute.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Wang Yi, China’s foreign minister, said on Thursday that the government hoped free-trade agreements in the region would play “a constructive role in their respective fields in resisting trade protectionism and building an open world economy.”The new version of the TPP does not pack the same punch as the earlier iteration. With the United States, the agreement would have represented 40 percent of the world’s economy, giving its provisions added heft.Still, the deal could appeal to companies trying to navigate the shifting trade waters.“In a world that is so upside-down, especially for companies, companies will need to seek out growth and stability wherever they can,” said Deborah Elms, founder and executive director of the Asian Trade Center, a consulting firm in Singapore. “And that stability does not appear to be coming from the United States, where policy seems to shift at a moment’s notice.”Japan, which has the largest economy among the remaining trade partners and played a leadership role in keeping the coalition of 11 countries together, is still holding out hopes that the United States might return to the pact, under either Mr. Trump or a subsequent administration.“We think the U.S. should come back, and we’ll say, ‘Please do come back,’ ” said Ichiro Fujisaki, a former Japanese ambassador to Washington. “It may sound a little impertinent, but the U.S. has taken many different positions on the economy or security.”AdvertisementThe Trump administration has recently signaled that it is open to re-entering the Trans-Pacific Partnership. In an interview at the World Economic Forum earlier this year, Mr. Trump said, “If we did a substantially better deal, I would be open to TPP.”Steven Mnuchin, the United States Treasury secretary, said he had held discussions about the prospect of rekindling American membership in the pact, though at a congressional hearing in February, he said it was not a priority.Yorizumi Watanabe, a professor of policy management at Keio University in Tokyo, said, “If the U.S. is retreating from this region, either as the pace setter or agenda setter of economic affairs or security affairs, this will be quite detrimental to the stability of this region.”He added: “TPP as such should not be seen as a mere free-trade or economic agreement. This should be seen from a kind of geopolitical point of view.”Heft could come from others. The Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington estimates that if five other places — Indonesia, South Korea, the Philippines, Taiwan and Thailand — joined the partnership, the annual increase to global income would total $449 billion by 2030, almost as much as it would have been if the United States were included.In the deal signed on Thursday, only 22 of more than 600 original provisions have been suspended, relating to intellectual property protection and a grab bag of other issues, several of which had been pushed by the United States. Kazuyoshi Umemoto, Japan’s chief negotiator for the partnership, said that if the United States decided to re-enter the deal, those provisions could be reinstated.“Trump won’t last forever,” said Patricio Navia, a political scientist at New York University. “Countries will return to a path toward globalization and this sends a beacon of hope.”Ernesto Londoño reported from Santiago, and Motoko Rich from Tokyo. Reporting was contributed by Alan Rappeport from Washington, Keith Bradsher from Zibo, China, and Makiko Inoue from Tokyo.A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Allies Sign Sweeping Pacific Trade Accord in a Challenge to Trump.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 1, 2018, 1:33 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said he's glad John Bolton will serve as President Donald Trump's national security adviser going into talks with North Korea because of his "very healthy skepticism."A U.S.-North Korean summit is slated for May. Hopes have been raised that Kim Jong Un  may be willing to discuss his nuclear weapons program and other measures to reduce the threat of war, possibly in exchange for security guarantees and an easing of the international sanctions that have severely pinched the already struggling North Korean economy.Graham said he had dinner with Bolton a couple of nights ago and the hawkish former ambassador to the U.N. expressed fears that North Korea is "just buying time" as it seeks to develop a nuclear-armed missile."He sees these negotiations as a way of buying time. That's what they've done in the past," said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.AdvertisementBolton replaces Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster on April 9.Graham said he would be skeptical about the terms and conditions of the summit, but he does hope the president will meet with the North Korean leader. He called for negotiations that are "very focused and get quick action."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We don't want to give him nine months or a year to talk and build a missile at the same time," Graham said on "Fox News Sunday."AdvertisementAt the same time, Graham warned Trump not to remove troops from Syria. Trump declared earlier this week: "Let the other people take care of it now."Graham said that leaving Syria would allow the Islamic State group to strengthen, the fighting between the Syrian Kurdish militia and Turkey would get out of hand, and Russia and Iran would go on to dominate Syria."It would be the single worst decision the president could make," Graham said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29, 2018, 5:21 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's selection of his White House doctor to run the massive Department of Veterans Affairs triggered concern Thursday among lawmakers and veterans groups about whether he has the experience to manage an agency paralyzed over Trump's push to expand private care.Ronny Jackson, a Navy rear admiral entrusted with the health of the past three presidents, is a lifelong physician whose positions on privatizing operations in the second largest federal department and addressing ballooning health care costs are unknown. First named to the top White House post by President Barack Obama, he would be new to running a big bureaucracy if given leadership over a department of 360,000 employees serving 9 million veterans.In a statement, Trump praised Jackson as "highly trained and qualified." But representatives of veterans aren't sold on the choice, or on Trump's decision a day earlier to fire VA Secretary David Shulkin."There is little that we know about Dr. Ronny Jackson's vision and qualifications," said Paul Rieckhoff, founder and CEO of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. "Our concern is whether President Trump was more interested in picking a secretary who would be politically loyal rather than someone who can work across the aisle to fix long standing problems of bureaucratic delay."AdvertisementSimilar doubts were expressed by Veterans of Foreign Wars, which praised Jackson's military background in a statement but pointed to a nominee biography devoid of "any experience working with the VA or with veterans, or managing any organization of size, much less one as multifaceted as the Department of Veterans Affairs." AMVETS echoed such sentiments.Advertisement"We look forward to a rigorous confirmation hearing," Rieckhoff said.Montana Sen. Jon Tester, top Democrat on the panel that will consider the nomination, said he had yet to determine if Jackson "is up to the job."It's not clear from Jackson's military service record how much, if any, management experience he has. His military assignments did not appear to include supervision over a large department or unit. His Navy biography says he deployed to Iraq with a Marine unit and served as the emergency physician in charge of resuscitative medicine for a trauma platoon.Jackson joined the White House medical team in 2006 and is perhaps best known for his appearance before the press corps in January, announcing the results of Trump's first physical in a performance that showed he was quick-witted and unfailingly complimentary of Trump.Marveling at the 71-year-old president's good health, Jackson opined, "It's just the way God made him."A White House official said Shulkin himself had recommended Jackson for an undersecretary position at the VA in the fall, and Trump ultimately decided he was more comfortable with Jackson than with other top candidates. The official was not authorized to discuss personnel matters and spoke on condition of anonymity.If confirmed by the Senate, Jackson would face immediate crises, like a multi-billion dollar revamp of electronic medical records now in limbo that members of Congress fear will prove too costly and wasteful, and a budget shortfall in the coming weeks in its private-sector Veterans Choice program.Trump is seeking an aggressive expansion of the Choice program to make it easier for veterans to see private doctors outside the VA system at government expense, but proposals are stalled in Congress following a failed effort last week.Advertisement"We're going to have real choice," Trump said in Ohio. "That's why I made some changes, because I wasn't happy with it."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Jackson's nomination comes as Trump's new Cabinet nominees begin to pile up in the Senate. That is certain to stir weeks of confirmation battles this spring when senators, especially those running for re-election, may prefer to shift focus away from the changes at the White House.None of the nominees, including the president's new picks for secretary of state and CIA director, is expected to sail to easy confirmation. The GOP-led Senate is narrowly divided 51-49 and Democrats — and some Republicans — are preparing to ask tough questions. Even though Congress has an otherwise slim legislative agenda before campaign season, prolonged confirmation fights could jam up the Senate and influence the election.Pending Jackson's confirmation, Robert Wilkie, a former Pentagon undersecretary for personnel and readiness, is serving as the acting head of the VA.Lawmakers said they needed to learn more about Jackson's record.Republican Sen. Johnny Isakson of Georgia, chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee that will review the nomination, declined to indicate his support. He stressed that he looked forward to "meeting Admiral Jackson and learning more about him." Isakson, a moderate, has expressed skepticism in the past toward toward nominees who expressed strong views in favor of privatization.Sen. Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont and a former chairman of the panel, cautioned that Jackson would not be approved if he supported privatizing the VA. "Our job is to strengthen the VA in order to provide high-quality care to our veterans, not dismember it," he said.Shulkin, a physician and the lone Obama administration holdover in Trump's Cabinet, was unceremoniously fired late Wednesday by Trump in a tweet. Shulkin had enjoyed support from Trump for much of his first year in the administration but support eroded last month after a bruising ethics scandal and political infighting at VA.Dan Caldwell, executive director of the conservative Concerned Veterans for America, said the group is keeping an "open mind" about Jackson's nomination. Some of the names that had been in circulation for the post had previous ties to the group, which supports giving veterans greater access to private doctors outside the VA system."We'd like to hear more about his positions to reform and fix the VA," Caldwell said. "He has a very distinguished service record and it would be unfair to outright dismiss him — you have to be very professional to reach his rank."AdvertisementA native of Levelland, Texas, Jackson, 50, graduated from Texas A&M with a degree in marine biology, then from medical school at the University of Texas Medical Branch.He headed to the Navy, then in 2005 joined a 2nd Marines regiment. Jackson was deployed to Iraq as the physician in charge of resuscitative medicine for a trauma platoon, according to the White House.Ned Price, a National Security Council spokesman under Obama, described the doctor as "the guy you always want to be around" because he's affable and funny. But Price said it was difficult to believe the nomination was unrelated to the "glowing assessment" of Trump's health that the doctor had provided.___Associated Press writers Jill Colvin, Lisa Mascaro, Lolita Baldor, Zeke Miller, Jonathan Lemire, Catherine Lucey and Darlene Superville contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27, 2018, 1:51 P.M. E.D.T.
SEATTLE —  The Latest on a federal court hearing in Seattle regarding President Donald Trump's ban on transgender people entering the military (all times local):10:30 a.m.A federal judge in Seattle says she won't immediately consider President Donald Trump's new policy banning transgender people from serving in the military.U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman is one of four federal judges who have issued orders blocking Trump's decision last year to overturn an Obama-era directive allowing transgender troops to serve openly. On Friday, Trump issued a new policy following a Pentagon review, saying transgender troops would be banned with limited exceptions.Pechman had scheduled a hearing Tuesday on the merits of the administration's prior decision, but the Justice Department asked her to dissolve her previous order, saying it's now moot.The judge said she didn't want to hear arguments about that Tuesday, because the transgender people challenging the ban hadn't had time to analyze the new policy.Advertisement____9:50 a.m.One of the four federal judges who blocked President Donald Trump's ban on transgender people entering the military has a chance to consider the implications of the president's new policy on the topic, issued just days ago.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman in Seattle had scheduled a hearing for Tuesday on Trump's decision last year to overturn an Obama-era directive allowing transgender troops to serve openly.AdvertisementBut late Friday, Trump issued a new policy following a Pentagon review, saying that transgender troops would be banned with limited exceptions.The Justice Department is asking Pechman to dissolve her December order blocking the president's previous decision. The DOJ says her order is moot in light of the new policy issued Friday.Democratic Washington state Attorney General Bob Ferguson says Trump's "last-minute maneuvering does nothing to save his unlawful and discriminatory policy."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSHANGHAI — China could target a broad range of U.S. businesses from agriculture to aircraft, autos, semiconductors and even services if the trade conflict with the United States escalates, the China Daily newspaper said in an editorial on Thursday.Trade tension has been growing between the world's top two economies after U.S. President Donald Trump last Friday moved to impose up to $60 billion (£42.6 billion) in tariffs on some Chinese imports, promoting warnings from Beijing it will retaliate with duties of up to $3 billion of U.S. imports even as it urged Washington to "pull back from the brink."On Wednesday, Trump's top trade envoy said he would give China a 60-day window before tariffs on Chinese goods take effect, but added that it would take years to bring the two countries' trading relationship "to a good place."The China Daily on Thursday quoted Chinese Premier Li Keqiang as telling a U.S. Congressional delegation this week that China was open to dialogue but "fully prepared with countermeasures".It warned that if the conflict continued to escalate "China could consider taking reciprocal measures against U.S. imports of agricultural products besides soybeans, as well as aircraft, automobiles and semiconductors.""And should the Trump administration further obstruct Chinese investments in the U.S., even tougher measures such as restrictions on imports of U.S. services and similar investment reviews would likely be on the table," it said.Separately, Hong Kong's South China Morning Post reported on Thursday that U.S. and Chinese officials had been holding talks to shield American soybeans and other agricultural products from trade sanctions.  (Reporting by John Ruwitch; Editing by Shri Navaratnam)AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28, 2018, 12:01 P.M. E.D.T.
UNION CITY, N.J. —  The Latest on Sen. Bob Menendez launching his re-election campaign (all times local):11:50 a.m.New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez has officially announced his campaign for a third term in the U.S. Senate, with no mention of the corruption scandal that dogged him until two months ago.The Democrat launched his campaign Wednesday at Union City High School. His parents settled in Union City after they emigrated from Cuba and it's where he served as mayor before going on to state and national office.Menendez told the enthusiastic crowd of a few thousand students and top Democrats that he would continue to oppose the policies of Republican President Donald Trump.Menendez's bribery and fraud trial ended in a hung jury last November. The government elected not to retry him on charges that he traded his political influence for gifts and favors from a longtime friend and donor.Advertisement___12:01 am.U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez has put a federal corruption case behind him and is set to officially kick off his campaign for a third term.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The 64-year-old New Jersey Democrat has stops planned on Wednesday in the northern and southern parts of the state. He's being challenged by Republican Bob Hugin, a wealthy former biopharmaceutical executive.Menendez was tried last fall on charges he traded his political influence for gifts and campaign donations from a friend. The case ended in a hung jury.AdvertisementFederal prosecutors dropped all charges about two months ago.Democrats this year are defending 10 Senate seats in states won by Donald Trump in 2016, as Republicans work to hold their narrow 51-vote majority.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 5:12 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Former Subway pitchman Jared Fogle is seeking release from a Colorado federal prison, saying his guilty plea in a child pornography case was based on an illegal conspiracy charge and should be thrown out.Fogle, 40, this week sought a writ of habeas corpus from the federal court in Denver.He is serving a 15-year, eight-month sentence in nearby Littleton, following a 2015 guilty plea to distributing child pornography and traveling for paid sex with girls.Fogle said his plea was unlawful because it included a "charge of conspiracy" not covered by the text of a federal law concerning sexual misconduct involving minors.Fogle said he would not have pleaded guilty but for the improper charge and said his imprisonment violates his due process rights under the U.S. Constitution.AdvertisementThe habeas application named Fogle's prison warden, the sentencing judge and U.S. President Donald Trump as defendants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A federal magistrate judge said the application was missing some details and gave Fogle 30 days to submit a revised version that omits the sentencing judge and Trump as defendants.AdvertisementFogle was a Subway spokesman for 15 years, and famous for losing more than 200 pounds (91 kg) through exercise and eating Subway sandwiches.In June 2016, a federal appeals court upheld his sentence, rejecting Fogle's argument that it improperly exceeded the length recommended under federal sentencing guidelines.The case is Fogle v Walton-Pratt et al, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado, No. 18-00704.(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 28, 2018, 3:57 A.M. E.D.T.
SEOUL —  "Denuclearisation" is a word dominating the headlines as U.S. President Donald Trump leads an effort to pressure North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons programme.First South Korean, then Chinese officials have in recent weeks reported North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has told them he is "committed to denuclearisation" on the Korean peninsula.Kim's declared commitment to denuclearisation, however, is neither new, nor likely in line with Washington's expectations.North Korea has long said it is open to eventually giving up its nuclear arsenal if the United States withdraws its troops from South Korea and ends its "nuclear umbrella" security alliance with Seoul, among other conditions.AdvertisementThe United States, meanwhile, has insisted on complete, verifiable, and irreversible dismantling of North Korea's nuclear weapons and the facilities needed to build those weapons as soon as possible.AdvertisementThe differing interpretations threaten to scuttle potential talks between North Korea and the United States before they begin."As we approach the summits, conceptions of denuclearisation seem to be diverging rather than converging," said Adam Mount, a senior fellow at the Federation of American Scientists.CONDITIONS AND CAVEATSAt the heart of the gulf between what Kim has said and what American and allied leaders may expect are the many caveats and conditions attached."The issue of denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula can be resolved, if South Korea and the United States respond to our efforts with goodwill," Kim told Chinese officials during a visit this week, according to Chinese state media outlet Xinhua.Previous North Korean leaders have vowed to end their nuclear programmes through negotiations, and according to South Korean officials, Kim said he would be open to giving up his nuclear weapons if he has adequate security guarantees.Washington is unlikely to be able to credibly provide such assurances in the wake of its interventions in Iraq and Libya, said Vipin Narang, an associate professor at MIT's Security Studies Program."If that’s what the North wants for denuclearisation...Not a chance it’s going to happen," he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.North Korea is more likely to offer something that might limit or cap its nuclear programme, without immediately eliminating it, analysts say.Advertisement"STEPS ALONG THE WAY"China and North Korea share a similar definition of denuclearisation, according to Zhao Tong, a North Korea expert at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Centre in Beijing."China is not really demanding or requiring that it dismantle its weapons, but wants to make sure that a nuclear free Korean peninsula is the ultimate goal," he said.South Korea's official line is that it shares the United State's goal of complete nuclear disarmament, but President Moon Jae-in has told lawmakers he recognizes that may not happen right away and he is open to exploring "other steps along the way," according to a parliamentary official.Analysts believe the most likely compromise could be North Korea agreeing to freeze weapons and missile tests and possibly cap its weapons development in return for sanctions relief and a reduction or freezing of joint U.S.-South Korean military drills.Trump himself has sent mixed messages on North Korea, issuing threats of military action and calling talks a waste of time, while also accepting Kim's invitation to meet.In the wake of that invitation, which was conveyed by a South Korean delegation that met with Kim earlier this month, Trump tweeted "Kim Jong Un talked about denuclearisation with the South Korean Representatives, not just a freeze."Trump's new national security adviser, John Bolton, recently said the president should use any summit with Kim to "make the point that he’s not there to waste time and that we expect real denuclearisation, not talks about talks about denuclearisation."If Trump shares that view and Kim refuses to give ground, then any talks could go nowhere, Mount said."If Trump rejects a phased approach, he will be seen as unreasonable and departing from expectations," he said. "If that happens, we could see the other players cut Washington out of the process and go it alone."Advertisement(Additional reporting by Christian Shepherd in BEIJING and Christine Kim in SEOUL; Editing by Lincoln Feast)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.By REUTERSMARCH 30, 2018, 1:50 A.M. E.D.T.
RICHFIELD, Ohio —  North and South Korea will hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, South Korean officials said on Thursday, after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un pledged his commitment to denuclearisation as tensions ease between the old foes.South Korean officials, who announced the date after high-level talks with North Korean counterparts, said the agenda would largely be denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula and improving inter-Korean relations.The two Koreas had agreed to hold the summit at the border truce village of Panmunjom when South Korean President Moon Jae-in sent a delegation to Pyongyang this month to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.Thursday's meeting was the first high-level dialogue between the two Koreas since the delegation returned from the North.AdvertisementThe two sides said in a joint statement they would hold a working-level meeting on April 4 to discuss details of the summit, such as staffing support, security and news releases.Advertisement"We still have a fair number of issues to resolve on a working level for preparations over the next month," said Ri Son Gwon, the chairman of North Korea's committee for the peaceful reunification of the country in closing remarks to the South Korean delegation."But if the two sides deeply understand the historic significance and meaning of this summit and give their all, we will be able to solve all problems swiftly and amicably," Ri added.Tension over North Korea's tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missile surged last year and raised fears of U.S. military action in response to North Korea's threat to develop a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States.But tension has eased significantly since North Korea decided to send athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February. The neighbours are technically still at war after the 1950-53 conflict ended with a ceasefire, not a truce.China commended both sides for their efforts to improve ties."We hope the momentum of dialogue can continue and that the peaceful situation also can last," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told a briefing.United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was encouraged by the recent developments with North Korea.    "I believe that in this world where unfortunately so many problems seem not to have a solution, I think there is here an opportunity for a peaceful solution to something that a few months ago was haunting us as the biggest danger we were facing," Guterres told reporters on Thursday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.'RESOLVE PROBLEMS'Kim is scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump in May to discuss denuclearisation, although a time and place have not been set.AdvertisementKim met Chinese President Xi Jinping in a surprise visit to Beijing this week, his first trip outside the isolated North since he came to power in 2011.Even more surprising was Kim's pledge to denuclearise the Korean peninsula. That commitment was reported by Chinese state media, although North Korea's official media made no mention of it, or Kim's anticipated meeting with Trump.A senior Chinese official visiting Seoul on Thursday to brief South Korea on Kim's visit to Beijing said it should help ease tension and lead to the denuclearisation of the peninsula."We believe his visit will help the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula, ensure peace and security of the Korean peninsula and resolve problems regarding the peninsula through political negotiations and discussions," Yang Jiechi said in opening remarks during a meeting with South Korea's National Security Office head, Chung Eui-yong.Yang, a top Chinese diplomat, is scheduled to meet South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Friday.South Korean Unification Minister Cho Myong-gyon told reporters Kim's visit to China was not discussed with North Korean officials in their Thursday talks.Trump and Kim had exchanged insults and veiled threats of war in recent months but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement this month that he was prepared to meet Kim to discuss the crisis over the North's development of weapons.The North Korean leader's engagement with the international community has sparked speculation that he may try to meet other leaders. Japan's Asahi newspaper said Japan had sounded out the North Korean government about a summit.Japan's Foreign Minister Taro Kono left open the possibility that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe might meet Kim at some point. Kono said in an interview with Reuters on Tuesday that Japan was closely watching preparations for the North-South Korean summit and the Trump-Kim meeting.Xi promised that Beijing would uphold its friendship with North Korea after his meeting with Kim.Trump wrote on Twitter he had received a message from Xi late on Tuesday that his meeting with Kim "went very well" and that Kim looked forward to meeting the U.S. president.Advertisement(Reporting by Christine Kim; Additional reporting by Michael Martina in BEIJING and Michelle Nichols at the UNITED NATIONS; Editing by Robert Birsel and James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.AdvertisementSupported byBy David BrooksEvery election cycle we say that so and so is fighting for the soul of the Democratic Party, or the soul of the Republican Party. And, of course, most of the time it’s not true. Most of the time the fight is over whether the party in question should go to the left or the right on some policy issue, which is important but not really a matter of a party’s soul.But this year it actually is true. The crucial issue of this election cycle is whether the Democratic Party will retain its soul — remain an institution committed to the basic democratic norms — respect for truth, personal integrity, the capacity for deliberation and compromise, loyalty to nation above party or tribe.These fundamental issues are on the table because Donald Trump put them there.Trump is a revolutionary figure not because he changed the G.O.P.’s position on trade or international engagement. He’s morally revolutionary.In the decades before Trump, the Republican Party stood for an idea: character before policy. To Mitt Romney, John McCain, the Bushes and Ronald Reagan, personal character and moral integrity were paramount. They stood for the idea that you can’t be a good leader or a good nation unless you are a good person and a good people.Trump asked the G.O.P. to reverse those priorities. He asked the Republican Party to accept the proposition that it doesn’t matter if your leader is a liar, a philanderer and a narcissist. It doesn’t matter if he is cruel to the weak and bigoted toward the outsider. What